Management's Discussion and Analysis Our Products We are a global IDM of CPUs and related solutions that we design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, support, and service. Our CPUs and related solutions are incorporated in computing and related end products and services, and utilized globally by consumers, enterprises, governments, and educational organizations. Our customers primarily include OEMs, ODMs, cloud service providers, and other manufacturers and service providers, such as industrial and communication equipment manufacturers and other cloud service providers who buy our products through distributor, reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the world. We market and sell these products directly through our global sales and marketing organizations and indirectly through channel partners. We manufacture our products at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities located throughout the world. Our product offerings provide end-to-end solutions, scaling from data center to network, PCs, edge computing, and the emerging fields of AI and autonomous driving, to serve an increasingly smart and connected world. Products, such as our gaming CPUs, may be sold directly to end consumers, or they may be further integrated by our customers into end products such as notebooks and storage servers. Combining some of these productsfor example, integrating FPGAs with Intel Xeon processors in a data center solutionenables incremental synergistic value and performance. In 2023 we launched new products, including the 13th Gen Intel Core mobile processor family, the 4th Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors with Intel vRAN Boost, and the Intel Core Ultra processors, which feature our first integrated neural processing unit for power-efficient AI acceleration and local inference on the PC. Our diverse product line includes CPU and chipset, an SoC, or a multichip package based on Intel architecture that processes data and controls other devices in a system. The primary CPU products in CCG are our Intel Core processors, which include designs specifically for notebook and desktop applications. The primary CPU product in DCAI is our Intel Xeon processor, which includes solutions for data center compute, networking, and the intelligent edge. The primary offerings of NEX include Intel Xeon, Intel Core, and Intel Atom processor products. During 2023, we managed our business through the operating segments that are presented below and have included the 2023, 2022 and 2021 financial results for each segment."Note 3: Operating Segments" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K reconciles our segment revenues presented below to our total revenues, and our segment operating income (loss) presented below to our total operating income (loss), for each of the periods presented. We have also included a discussion of our 2023, 2022 and 2021 consolidated results of operations and related information subsequent to the operating segment discussion below. MD&A 20 Overview We are committed to advancing PC experiences by delivering an annual cadence of leadership products and deepening our relationships with industry partners to co-engineer and deliver leading platform innovation. We engage in an intentional effort to bring together the operating system, system architecture, hardware, and software application integration to enable industry-leading PC experiences. We embrace these opportunities by focusing our roadmap, delivering innovative PC capabilities, and designing advanced PC experiences. By doing this, we believe we help continue to fuel innovation across the industry, providing a solid source of IP, scale, and cash flow for Intel. Key Business Developments We launched our 13th Gen Intel Core mobile and select desktop processors, Intel Core 14th Gen processors, and Intel Core Ultra processors, the first client processor family on Intel 4 technology that features a new neural processing unit to drive AI at scale. We launched the industry's first AI PC Acceleration Program to help enable AI on more than 100 million PCs through 2025. We worked with industry partners to co-engineer and deliver new experiences with the Intel Evo device, including phone to PC capabilities with Intel Unison application and future premium laptop experiences with AI and Intel Core Ultra processors. MD&A 21 Table of Contents Market and Business Overview Market Trends and Strategy In 2023, the PC market started to stabilize from a soft macroeconomic environment and inflationary pressures, with PC supply and demand levels beginning to normalize. We remain positive on the long-term outlook for PCs, as household density is stable to increasing, educational device penetration rates remain low outside of the US, and PC usage remains elevated compared to pre-pandemic rates1. Commercial growth opportunities also remain as corporations expand the size of their PC fleets, while also replacing older devices. Currently, approximately 200 million commercial devices are more than four years old2. We see the AI PC as a critical inflection point for the PC market over the coming years, and we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on the emerging growth opportunity of AI. We believe that the PC is as essential as ever, and we expect our leadership in client AI to further support our original forecasted long-term PC TAM of approximately 300 million units3. Together with our industry partners, we are working to increase demand and drive market growth through enhanced PC capabilities, which we expect will lead to greater market penetration and faster PC refresh cycles. As we continue on our strategy to develop more competitive products and more capabilities for customers, we are designing our product roadmap to drive product leadership grounded in a philosophy of openness and choice. We deliver value to our customers by leveraging our engineering capabilities and working with our partners across an open, innovative ecosystem to deliver technology that drives every major vector of the computing experience, including performance, power efficiency, battery life, connectivity, graphics, and form factors, to create the most advanced PC platforms. Products and Competition We released our 14th Gen Intel Core desktop processor family, delivering improved single-threaded and multi-threaded performance when gaming, streaming, and recording. In addition, we released our first Intel Core Ultra family of processors, which utilizes a disaggregated architecture and is the first PC platform built on Intel 4 technology. Our latest processor family is the first client processor to feature a dedicated NPU for AI acceleration and delivers improved power efficiency and graphics performance. Intel Core Ultra represents an inflection point in Intel's client processor roadmap as we usher in the age of the AI PC. With new capabilities in the PC, including significantly improved battery life, AI capabilities with our NPU and GPU products, and up to double the graphics performance with Intel Core Ultra processors, we seek to provide compelling reasons to drive refresh in commercial and consumer markets. We expect to deliver more than 230 Intel Core Ultra designs to market. There is strong demand for our 13th Gen Intel Core processor family, which features Intel Thread Director technology and our second-generation performance hybrid architecture. We expect to deliver more than 300 designs from partners across major multi-national corporations and leading manufacturers. We continue to innovate beyond the CPU to deliver premium PC experiences with Intel Evo Edition laptops and Intel vPro Platforms. We worked with industry partners to co-engineer and deliver new experiences with Intel Evo Edition, which are designed to deliver key experience indicators such as responsiveness, battery life, intelligence collaboration, and Intel Unison Multi-Device Experience. Intel vPro is designed for enterprise needs and delivers increased productivity, connectivity, security features, and remote manageability. We operate in a particularly competitive market. In processors, we compete with Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) and vendors who design applications processors based on ARM architecture*, such as Qualcomm Inc. (Qualcomm), and Apple Inc. (Apple), with its M1 and M2 products. We expect this competitive environment to continue to intensify in 2024. We remain committed to creating an open ecosystem to foster growth and technology innovations. We embrace and collaborate with a global ecosystem of industry partners to deliver leadership technologies together. We launched the industry's first AI PC Acceleration Program, designed to provide the software ecosystem with engineering tools and resources to enable AI on more than 100 million PCs through 2025. We also announced a collaboration with Microsoft to drive the development of AI on personal computing, with Intel Core Ultra processors and Windows 11 expected to scale across the ecosystem of Intel and Microsoft OEM and ISV partners. During 2023, we continued to diversify our product strategy across nodes, advance our packaging capabilities with disaggregated silicon, and balance internal and external manufacturing. We increased our levels of operating inventory and worked with our customers to develop strategically located supply hubs that forward position inventory. In addition, we continue to invest in a globally diverse supply chain that enables us the flexibility and proximity to support customers. These have further enhanced the service and responsiveness we are able to provide our customers. 1Source Intel calculated PC density from industry analyst reports. 2Source: Intel calculated volume of devices over four years old from industry analyst reports and internal data. 3Source: Intel calculated multi-year TAM forecast derived from industry analyst reports. MD&A 22 Table of Contents Financial Performance CCG Revenue $B CCG Operating Income $B |Notebook |Desktop |Other Revenue Summary 2023 vs. 2022 Notebook revenue was $17.0 billion, down $1.8 billion from 2022. Notebook volume decreased 5% from 2022, driven by lower demand across market segments, partially offset by increased volume in the second half of the year as customer inventory levels normalized compared to higher levels in the first half. Notebook ASPs decreased 5% from 2022 due to relative strength in the education market segment resulting in a higher mix of small core products combined with a higher mix of older generation products. Desktop revenue was $10.2 billion, down $495 million from 2022. Desktop volume decreased 9% from 2022, driven by lower demand across market segments, partially offset by increased volume in the second half of the year as customer inventory levels normalized compared to higher levels in the first half. Desktop ASPs increased 5% from 2022, due to an increased mix of product sales to the commercial and gaming market segments. Other revenue was $2.1 billion, down $229 million from 2022, primarily driven by the continued ramp down of our legacy smartphone modem business and lower demand for our wireless and connectivity products as a result of lower notebook volumes. 2022 vs. 2021 Notebook revenue was $18.8 billion, down $6.7 billion from 2021. Notebook volume decreased 36% from 2021, driven by lower demand in the consumer and education market segments, and notebook ASPs increased 15% from 2021 due to an increased mix of commercial and consumer products and a lower mix of education products. Desktop revenue was $10.7 billion, down $1.8 billion from 2021. Desktop volume decreased 19% from 2021, driven by lower demand in the consumer and education market segments, and desktop ASPs increased 5% from 2021, primarily from an increased mix of commercial products. Other revenue was $2.3 billion, down $870 million from 2021, primarily driven by the continued ramp down of our legacy smartphone modem business and lower demand for our wireless and connectivity products. MD&A 23 Table of Contents Operating Income Summary Operating income increased 17% year over year, and operating margin was 22% in 2023 and 18% in 2022. (In Millions) $ 6,520 2023 Operating Income 1,692 Lower period charges driven by the sell-through of previously reserved inventory and lower reserves taken in 2023 1,220 Lower operating expenses driven by various cost-cutting measures 268 Lower period charges primarily driven by a decrease in product ramp costs (1,704) Lower product margin primarily from lower notebook and desktop revenue (385) Higher unit cost primarily from increased mix of Intel 7 products (140) Higher period charges related to excess capacity charges $ 5,569 2022 Operating Income (3,047) Lower product margin from notebook revenue (2,183) Higher notebook and desktop unit cost primarily from increased mix of Intel 7 products (1,306) Lower product margin from desktop revenue (1,400) Higher operating expenses driven by increased investments in leadership products (1,155) Higher period charges primarily driven by inventory reserves taken in 2022 (364) Lower CCG other product margin driven by lower demand for our wireless and connectivity products and the continued ramp down from the exit of our 5G smartphone modem business (267) Higher period charges primarily associated with the ramp of Intel 4 (162) Higher period charges related excess capacity charges 192 Lower period charges due to a benefit related to insurance proceeds received for business interruption and property damage that occurred in 2020 (262) Other $ 15,523 2021 Operating Income MD&A 24 Overview DCAI delivers cutting-edge workload-optimized solutions to cloud service providers and enterprises, along with silicon devices for communications service providers, network and edge, and HPC customers. Our unique capabilities enable us to help solve our customers' most complex challenges with the depth and breadth of our hardware and software portfolio, advanced packaging, and at-scale manufacturing made possible through a resilient, global supply chain. Our global customers and partners encompass cloud hyperscalers, multinational corporations, small-and medium-sized enterprises, independent software vendors, systems integrators, communications service providers, and governments. Key Business Developments We have sold more than 2 million 4th Generation Intel Xeon Scalable processors as of the end of 2023, and launched the 5th Gen Intel Xeon processors in Q4 2023. We were recognized by MLCommons, which published MLPerf Training performance benchmark data showing that 4th Gen Xeon and Intel Gaudi 2 are two compelling, open computing platforms in the AI market that compete on performance, price, and broad availability. We announced our intent to separate PSG into a standalone company, giving PSG the autonomy and operational and financial flexibility it needs to accelerate growth to more effectively compete in the FPGA market. Standalone financial reporting for PSG began January 1, 2024. MD&A 25 Table of Contents Market and Business Overview Market Trends and Strategy Data is a significant force in society and is generated daily at an unprecedented pace. The desire to harness insights from data to drive better outcomes for businesses and society is ever expanding. AI is becoming pervasive in nearly all applications, creating the potential for intelligence everywhere, and enabling powerful new uses of compute resources across all market segments. The installed base of Intel Xeon processors, combined with our portfolio of heterogeneous compute solutions (FPGAs, GPUs, IPUs, and AI accelerators), we believe positions us to lead in this high-growth area. DCAI is integral to our growth in AI through deep investments in the AI ecosystem, developer tools, frameworks, networking and memory, technologies, and open standards to drive a scalable path forward. We take a system-level approach that supplies the necessary hardware and software optimized for power and performance. Our technology is differentiated at the system level and in high-growth workloads based on our integrated hardware acceleration engines and software. For example, architected into our Intel Xeon processors are Intel Advanced Matrix Extensions (Intel AMX) for AI acceleration; Intel Software Guard Extensions (Intel SGX), providing enclaves of protected memory designed to deliver enhanced security for sensitive data; and Intel Crypto Acceleration, which is designed to deliver breakthrough performance across cryptographic algorithms. We believe this acceleration and performance will continue to drive our differentiated value and growth across our customer base. Products and Competition Our products and services include: A portfolio of hardware, including Intel Xeon processors, the Intel Xeon CPU Max Series, the Intel Data Center GPU Max Series, the Intel Data Center GPU Flex Series, Intel Agilex and Intel Stratix FPGAs, Intel eASIC devices, and the Intel Gaudi processors. Platform enabling and validation in partnership with ODMs, OEMs, CSPs, and independent software vendors. Optimized solutions for leading workloads such as AI, cryptography, security, storage, and networking, leveraging differentiated features supporting diverse compute environments. We provide our customers with an extensive portfolio of silicon and software products, engineered to deliver workload-optimized performance. Our hardware portfolio comprises CPUs, GPUs, domain-specific accelerators, and FPGAs, designed to support the performance, agility, and security that our customers demand. Deployment of our silicon platforms is accelerated by a software development environment that enables workload mobility across our heterogeneous architectures and enables developers to execute their workloads on the hardware that best meets application requirements. Our competitors include AMD, providers of GPU products such as NVIDIA, companies developing their own custom silicon, and new entrants and incumbents developing ARM- and RISC-V-based products customized for specific data center workloads. We expect this competitive landscape to continue. The Intel Xeon Scalable processor family delivers advanced CPUs for the data center, the network, and the edge, driving industry-leading performance, manageability, and security with differentiated features and capabilities. In 2023, we launched the 5th Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors, which utilize modular SoCs for increased scalability and flexibility to deliver a range of products that meet the growing scale, processing, and power efficiency needs for AI, cloud, and enterprise installations. Our Intel Gaudi 2 AI deep learning processor is engineered to allow customers to benefit from the most cost-effective, high-performance training and inference alternative to comparable GPUs. Our FPGA and structured ASIC portfolio enhances Intel's ability to meet the needs of customers in the data center, across the network, and at the edge. In 2023, we released 21 new products within our FPGA business. These include the Intel Agilex 9 and Intel Agilex 7 product families, which are intended to handle the increased demand for customized workloads, including enhanced AI capabilities, and to provide lower total cost of ownership. Our Intel Xeon CPU Max Series, introduced in 2022, was the first and only x86-based processor with high bandwidth memory for HPC and AI workloads. The Intel Data Center GPU Max Series 1550 and 1100 are now broadly available through OEM systems. Our Intel CPU Max Series includes 64GB of on-package high bandwidth memory, which benefits data-intensive HPC workloads. Our Intel Data Center GPU Flex Series offers customers a flexible, general-purpose GPU for the data center and the intelligent visual cloud. We delivered and installed, in collaboration with Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) and Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE), the largest cluster of Max GPUs to the Aurora Supercomputer at ANL. The ubiquity of Intel Xeon in the installed base, along with our heterogeneous compute solutions combined with software that unlocks the value of our hardware, enable our customers to develop highly differentiated solutions. Our integrated approach has created significant value for Intel, our customers, and our partners by helping us mitigate risks, reduce costs, build brand value, and identify new market opportunities to apply our technology to address our customers' and society's most complex issues. MD&A 26 Table of Contents Financial Performance DCAI Revenue $B DCAI Operating Income (Loss) $B Revenue Summary 2023 vs. 2022 Revenue was $15.5 billion, down $3.9 billion from 2022, driven by a decrease in server revenue. Server volume decreased 37% from 2022, due to lower demand in a softening CPU data center market. Server ASPs increased 20% from 2022, primarily due to a lower mix of hyperscale customer-related revenue and a higher mix of high core count products. 2022 vs. 2021 Revenue was $19.4 billion, down $3.3 billion from 2021, due to a decrease in server revenue, partially offset by higher other DCAI revenue. Server volume decreased 16% from 2021, led by enterprise customers in a competitive environment, and due to customers tempering purchases to reduce existing inventories in a softening data center market. Server ASPs decreased 5% from 2021, driven by a higher mix of revenue from hyperscale customers. Other DCAI revenue increased 18% from 2021 primarily driven by growth in our FPGA business. Operating Income (Loss) Summary We had an operating loss of $530 million in 2023, compared to operating income of $1.3 billion in 2022. (In Millions) $ (530) 2023 Operating Income (Loss) (2,709) Lower product margin primarily due to lower server revenue (1,269) Higher server unit cost primarily from increased mix of Intel 7 products (171) Higher period charges related to excess capacity charges 1,337 Lower operating expenses driven by various cost-cutting measures 520 Lower period charges primarily driven by a decrease in product ramp costs 462 Lower period charges driven by the sell-through of previously reserved inventory and lower reserves taken in 2023 $ 1,300 2022 Operating Income (3,325) Lower product margin from server revenue (1,137) Higher period charges primarily associated with the ramp up of Intel 4 (1,043) Higher operating expenses driven by increased investments in leadership products (671) Higher server unit cost from increased mix of 10nm SuperFin products (645) Higher period charges driven by inventory reserves taken in 2022 (189) Higher period charges related to excess capacity charges 785 Higher product margin from DCAI other product revenue 223 Lower period charges due to a benefit related to insurance proceeds received for business interruption and property damage that occurred in 2020 (74) Other $ 7,376 2021 Operating Income MD&A 27 Overview NEX transforms the world's networks and edge compute systems from fixed-function hardware to general-purpose compute, acceleration, and networking devices running cloud native software on programmable hardware. We work with partners and customers to deliver and deploy intelligent edge platforms that allow developers to achieve agility and to drive automation using AI for efficient operations while securing the integrity of their data at the edge. We have a broad portfolio of hardware and software platforms, tools, and ecosystem partnerships for the rapid digital transformation happening from the cloud to the edge. We are leveraging our core strengths in compute, connectivity, software, and manufacturing at scale to grow traditional markets and to accelerate entry into emerging ones. Key Business Developments We launched the 4th Gen Intel Xeon processor with Intel vRAN Boost, and announced the Intel Xeon D-1800 series and the Intel Xeon D-2800 series processors optimized for cloud, edge, and 5G networks. We continue to update solutions to improve developers' digital strategies and to accelerate market adoption of edge and AI applications. We announced 13th Gen Intel Core processors for Internet of Things edge and OpenVINO toolkit version 2023.1 with enhanced features for GenAI and edge computing. We continue to work with our ecosystem partners like Ericsson, Nokia, Cisco, Dell Technologies, HPE, Lenovo, Amazon, Google, and Microsoft to drive the software-defined transformation of the world's network and edge infrastructure and accelerate AI-driven automation of physical operations. MD&A 28 Market and Business Overview Market Trends and Strategy The Internet is undergoing a shift toward a cloud-to-edge infrastructure, combining unrivaled scale and capacity in the cloud with faster response times at nearby edges. As AI is transforming and automating every industryfrom factories to smart cities to hospitalsthe demand for high-performance computing at the edge has expanded exponentially. Networks are moving toward software, becoming more programmable and flexible. Our network and edge solutions aim to unleash the power of intelligent edge solutions for our customers and move the world's networks to a software infrastructure that runs on Intel technologies by (1) providing edge-optimized, AI-enabled compute and connectivity solutions to run every workload at the edge, between the cloud and the end user, and (2) deploying software platforms that enable developers to build, deploy, run, manage, connect, and secure distributed edge infrastructure, applications, and edge AI across several verticals, such as industrials, federal, aerospace, retail, healthcare, education, and smart cities. Products and Competition With a greater emphasis on systems and solutions designed to harness the growth of data processed at the edge to yield insights, our competitive landscape has shifted beyond application-specific standard product vendors to include cloud, network, and AI computing platform providers. Today, we speed the deployment of network and edge computing solutions based on our open software frameworks, AI-enabled platform solutions, and edge and network-optimized broad silicon portfolio to address a wide range of applications across several markets. On-Premises Edge: More than just providing silicon, we partner with companies to design and deliver solutions to help a wide range of customers transform their businesses and take advantage of the rapidly increasing number of connected and intelligent devices. We develop high-performance, AI-enabled compute platforms that solve for technology and business use cases that scale across several industries, such as retail, education, manufacturing, energy, healthcare, and medical. We deliver edge-optimized AI-enabled platforms for edge applications based on our Intel Xeon, Intel Core, and Intel Atom processor portfolio, which reduces operational complexity for our customers and helps our customers create, store, and process data at the edge so they can analyze it faster and act on it sooner. We also build differentiated networking offerings that keep pace with industry speeds and deliver unique features needed for the intelligent edge, such as networking offloads, time-sensitive networking, and scalable reliable transport. Enterprise Networking: Enterprises are evolving their networks to connect new and varying environments, host services from anywhere between cloud and edge, deliver heightened service levels, and handle growing volumes of devices and data. We are leading the world's shift to run networking workloads in software and create network function virtualization to provide our customers with more efficient, cost-effective, and programmable platforms that enable secure, agile, and reliable networking solutions from edge to cloud. We work with our ecosystem partners of over 500 network builders to help enterprises optimize their networks with right-sized compute and connectivity requirements for current and future needs. Telecommunication Networks: We lead 5G core network deployments, demonstrating that 5G base stations can be almost entirely built from software running on Intel Xeon processors with Intel vRAN Boost. We continue to drive the transformation from fixed-function networks onto Intel Xeon Scalable processors and Intel Xeon D processors coupled with our FlexCore and FlexRAN software. Our customers are tier-one global communication service providers and their equipment suppliers. Our software-based cloud RAN platform is designed to allow operators to deploy the fastest cloud-native 5G infrastructure quickly and efficiently at scale to meet the needs of their end customers. Cloud Networking:Our cloud customers require uncompromised data center network performance and reliability driven by increased networking investments to support AI cluster deployments. We address these requirements by providing our open-standards-based NICs and IPUs. The IPU, a new class of product, is an open and programmable compute platform that frees up more compute cycles for customers by running infrastructure workloads in a separate, secure, and isolated set of CPU cores. Software and Platforms: Our customers' need for flexibility, programmability, and versatility drives workloads toward software and away from fixed-function hardware. As networking in the cloud, core network, 5G, and private networks move to software, and as our edge customers increasingly deploy AI applications, we aim to simplify innovation on Intel hardware. We support our customers' software strategy at the edge with an edge-native software platform with modular building blocks, premium service, and support offerings. The platform enables developers to build, deploy, run, manage, connect, and secure distributed edge infrastructure, applications, and edge AI. The platform is a horizontal approach to scaling the needed infrastructure for the intelligent edge and hybrid AI, as well as bringing together an ecosystem of Intel and third-party vertical applications. Offering unique optimizations for network, the Internet of Things, hybrid AI, and edge workloads on Intel architecture, the platform also broadly supports diverse architectures and can be consumed on a modular basisavoiding vendor lock-in. The platform delivers a seamless cloud-like experience, combining truly edge-native capabilities for security and zero-touch management with our deep industry experience and unrivaled ecosystem. MD&A 29 Financial Performance NEX Revenue $B NEX Operating Income (Loss) $B Revenue Summary 2023 vs. 2022 Revenue was $5.8 billion, down $2.6 billion from 2022, as customers tempered purchases to reduce inventories and adjust to a lower demand environment across product lines. 2022 vs. 2021 Revenue was $8.4 billion, up $744 million from 2021, driven by higher Ethernet ASPs and increased demand for 5G products, partially offset by lower demand for Network Xeon. Ethernet demand declined in Q4 2022 due to lower server demand, and edge demand declined in Q4 2022 due to macroeconomic factors. Operating Income (Loss) Summary We had an operating loss of $482 million in 2023, compared to operating income of $1.0 billion in 2022. (In Millions) $ (482) 2023 Operating Income (Loss) (1,832) Lower product margin driven by lower revenue across NEX product lines (181) Higher period charges driven by inventory reserves taken in 2023 498 Lower operating expenses driven by various cost-cutting measures $ 1,033 2022 Operating Income (520) Higher operating expenses driven by increased investments in leadership products (377) Higher period charges primarily associated with the ramp of Intel 4 (367) Higher period charges primarily due to other product enhancements (290) Higher period charges driven by reserves taken in 2022 and lack of sell-through of reserves compared to 2021 522 Higher product margin from Ethernet revenue 203 Lower unit cost primarily from10nm SuperFin products (73) Other $ 1,935 2021 Operating Income MD&A 30 Overview Mobileye is a leader in the development and deployment of ADAS and autonomous driving technologies and solutions. We pioneered ADAS technology more than 20 years ago, and have continued to expand the scope of our ADAS offerings while playing a leading role in the evolution of autonomous driving solutions. Our portfolio of solutions is built upon a comprehensive suite of purpose-built software and hardware technologies designed to provide the capabilities needed to make the future of ADAS and autonomous driving a reality. These technologies can be harnessed to deliver mission-critical capabilities at the edge and in the cloud, advancing the safety of road users, and revolutionizing the driving experience and the movement of people and goods globally. Our customers and strategic partners include major global OEMs, Tier 1 automotive system integrators, and public transportation operators. Key Business Developments We launched EyeQ-based systems into approximately 300 different vehicle models and built significant traction with our advanced portfolio of products, including Cloud-enhanced ADAS, Mobileye SuperVision, and Mobileye Chauffeur. Mobileye SuperVision execution continues to progress as we delivered an over-the-air update in August 2023 delivering highway navigate-on-pilot capabilities that are now enabled in 22 cities, as compared to two cities at the August 2023 launch. Customer traction also saw an acceleration in 2023, as we achieved new SuperVision design wins with Porsche, FAW, Mahindra & Mahindra, and a major global western OEM. We achieved our first production design wins for the Chauffeur product during 2023 as well, including with Polestar, FAW, and a major global western OEM. We were recognized as the leader in the development of autonomous vehicle technology by two leading research groups, Guidehouse Insights and ABI Research, excelling in quantitative and qualitative assessments across various criteria such as technology, innovation, strategy, implementation, and customer bases. We moved up six positions in the Guidehouse Leaderboard since the 2021 report, demonstrating progress in realizing our autonomous vision. MD&A 31 Market and Business Overview Market Trends and Strategy In 2023, the automotive industry grew with an approximately 9% increase in global vehicle production year over year. We expect industry ADAS volumes to grow faster than overall global vehicle production in the coming years and anticipate long-term ADAS growth from increases in the percentage of vehicles that are equipped with basic ADAS features from the factory. Despite our expectation for a decline in Mobileye ADAS volumes in 2024 due to a correction of inventory with our customers, we continue to believe we will benefit from positive industry ADAS growth over the medium-term. In addition to potential volume growth, our portfolio of advanced solutions has the potential to drive higher average system price over time. Beyond ADAS solutions, we believe that the availability of AVs will cause a significant transformation in mobility, including vehicle ownership and utilization. We expect that AV technology will eventually be accessed by consumers through shared-vehicle MaaS networks, as well as in consumer-owned and operated AVs. We are pursuing this market trend by using our eyes-on/hands-off Mobileye SuperVision solution as a baseline to scale to our eyes-off/hands-off Mobileye Chauffeur consumer AV product in a variety of operational design domains. As it relates to AMaaS, we intend to primarily go to market by supplying Mobileye Drive self-driving system to transportation network companies, public transit operators, and suppliers of AV-ready vehicle platforms. In some cases, we expect to bundle our Mobileye Drive self-driving system with Moovits urban mobility and transit intelligence application and its global user base. Products and Competition We currently ship a variety of ADAS solutions to a large number of global automakers. We are recognized for our top-rated safety solutions globally, and since 2007, we have introduced numerous industry-first ADAS products. We are building a robust portfolio of end-to-end ADAS and autonomous driving solutions to provide the capabilities needed for the future of autonomous driving, leveraging a comprehensive suite of purpose-built software and hardware technologies. We pioneered base ADAS features to enhance vehicle safety and to meet global regulatory requirements and safety ratings with our driver assist solution and we have since created a new category of ADAS with our Cloud-Enhanced Driver-Assist and premium driver assist offerings, such as Mobileye SuperVision. By leveraging Mobileye SuperVisions full-surround computer vision and True Redundancy, we are developing Mobileye Chauffeur, our consumer AV solution and Mobileye Drive, our eyes-off/hands-off autonomous driving solution designed for fleet deployment. Our current offerings to Tier 1 and OEM customers do not include cameras, radars, lidar systems, or other sensors (except in particular cases). We intend in the future to offer radar and lidar products that are currently in development stages. The ADAS and autonomous driving industries are highly competitive. In the ADAS and consumer AV market, we face competition primarily from other external providers, including Tier 1 automotive suppliers and silicon providers, as well as in-house solutions developed by OEMs to a certain extent. Our Tier 1 customers may be developing or may in the future develop competing solutions. In the autonomous driving market, including AMaaS and consumer AV, we face competition from technology companies; internal development teams from the automakers themselves, sometimes in combination with investments in early-stage autonomous vehicle technology companies, Tier 1 automotive companies, as well as robotaxi providers. 1Source: S&P Global Production Forecast MD&A 32 Financial Performance Mobileye Revenue $B Mobileye Operating Income $B Revenue and Operating Income Summary 2023 vs. 2022 Revenue was $2.1 billion, up $210 million from 2022,primarily driven by higher demand for EyeQ products. Operating income was $664 million, down $26 million from 2022. 2022 vs. 2021 Revenue was $1.9 billion, up $483 million from 2021, primarily driven by higher demand for EyeQ products and Mobileye SuperVision systems. Operating income was $690 million, up $136 million from 2021, primarily due to higher revenue, partially offset by increased investments in leadership products. MD&A 33 Overview As the first Open System Foundry, we enable our customers' transition from general-purpose monolithic chips to systems of chips tailored to high-growth applications, including AI, and optimize their solutions by combining the best technologies from Intel and the ecosystem. We believe this combination of systems technology, systems expertise, ecosystem partnerships, and robust supply chain helps fuel the growth of our customers, creates more robust global supply chains, and ultimately transforms the foundry industry. Our customers and strategic partners include traditional fabless companies, cloud service providers, automotive, and military, aerospace, and defense firms. We also offer IMS mask-making equipment for advanced lithography used by most of the world's leading-edge foundries. Key Business Developments In 2023, we were granted four design wins on Intel 18A, including a design win with a significant high performance computing customer on Intel 18A and a large prepayment. We have seen accelerated interest in our advanced packaging business, especially for AI related designs, and have secured five new design wins. Our IFS Accelerator Ecosystem Alliance program doubled in size to over 40 strategic agreements across EDA, silicon IP, design services, cloud, and USMAG alliances since launching in Q1 2022. We announced a multigenerational agreement with ARM and a definitive agreement with Synopsys. The ARM agreement is expected to enable chip designers to build optimized compute SoCs on the Intel 18A process. The Synopsys agreement expands the development of a portfolio of IP on Intel 3 and Intel 18A. These agreements and the IFS accelerator program are expected to enable customers to design using a robust suite of EDA and IP across IFS nodes, similar to the way they would design with their existing foundry supplier. We expanded partnerships under the Rapid Assured Microelectronics Prototypes-Commercial (RAMP-C) program created by the US Department of Defense in 2021 to assure domestic access to leading-edge technology and the US-based foundry ecosystem. The combination of expanded partnerships and RAMP-C enables customers to develop and fabricate chips on Intel 18A, including customers such as Nvidia, IBM, Microsoft, Boeing, and Northrop Grumman. We announced a commercial agreement with Tower, pursuant to which we are expected to provide foundry services and manufacturing capacity through our New Mexico advanced manufacturing facility for 300mm advanced analog processing. MD&A 34 Table of Contents Market and Business Overview Market Trends and Strategy The chip industry is undergoing a structural transformation driven by: Five superpowers: ubiquitous compute, pervasive connectivity, cloud-to-edge infrastructure, AI, and sensing; A generational shift in computer architectures: the move from system on chip to system of chips (chiplets), increased tailoring of chips to workloads, especially AI, and the vertical integration into chipmaking by OEMs and CSPs; Increasing costs of R&D and capacity for advanced node technologies; and Supply chain risk highlighted by geo-political issues and the growing need for a resilient, secure, and sustainable global supply chain. These transformational trends are driving significant semiconductor market growth in leading-edge silicon and packaging technologies, especially in systems of chips for AI applications. Customers have to make complex design choices at every level of the system, from packaging technologies, process nodes, interconnects, physical IP, and compute elements to software. The abundance of technology choices and optimizations is adding complexity in design, technology, integration, and manufacturing. Our IDM 2.0 strategy includes our pursuit of these complex manufacturing and market growth opportunities by making significant capital investments in leading-edge semiconductor technologies in order to create foundry capacity and establish IFS as a major provider of foundry services that provides semiconductor manufacturing solutions for others and for ourselves. We have made and expect to continue to make significant capital investments in furtherance of this strategy. Products and Competition We seek to address this tectonic shift in the chip industry by enabling our customers to create optimized systems of chips by combining the best technologies from Intel and the ecosystem. We believe Open System Foundry is a world-class foundry offering, delivered from a resilient, secure, and sustainable source of supply and complemented by access to the systems of chips capabilities from Intel. The basic foundry offering is advanced process technologies backed by an ecosystem of IP, EDA, and design services, which enable customers to design as they would with other foundries. The systems of chips capabilities include advanced packaging technologies, software to accelerate bring-up and integration of complex chips, and driving standards that will improve system performance. With our IFS accelerator program members and the Arm and Synopsys agreements, we believe we are well on the way to building out a world-class foundry offering. With the rise of AI, our advanced packaging business is expected to be another unique advantage for Intel. Chips created with us or other foundries can be packaged using Intel's advanced packaging technologies, including 2D and 2.5D/3D solutions designed to enable large, highly scalable packages at competitive costs. We continue to drive technologies, capabilities, and standards needed to optimize systems of chips, including the Universal Chiplet Interconnect Express* standard for communication between chips in a system, which was demonstrated in silicon in 2023. We accelerate our customers' designs by providing services and software that leverage Intel's vast experience as a systems company. Our competitors are mostly pure-play foundries that focus on delivering a pure-play foundry offering from fabrication plants based primarily in Asia. Of the five major semiconductor foundries, TSMC, Samsung, Global Foundries (GF), United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), only Samsung is an IDM and foundry, and only GF is headquartered in the US. TSMC leads the market with 59% market share, followed by Samsung at 16% in 20221. Neither Samsung nor TSMC currently offers its most advanced nodes outside of Asia and both have limited advanced node capacity in the US. We believe the Open System Foundry model delivers differentiated capabilities to help our customers lead in their industries while bringing stability to the global semiconductor supply chain. The momentum and customer commitments we are seeing demonstrate that our strategy and offerings are resonating, and we look to build on this success in 2024 and in future periods. 1Source: TrendForce MD&A 35 Table of Contents Financial Performance IFS Revenue $B IFS Operating Income (Loss) $B Revenue and Operating Income (Loss) Summary 2023 vs. 2022 Revenue was $952 million, up $483 million from 2022, driven by higher packaging revenue. We had an operating loss of $482 million, compared to an operating loss of $281 million from 2022,primarily due to increased spending to drive strategic growth. 2022 vs. 2021 Revenue was $469 million, up $122 million from 2021, primarily driven by higher sales of multi-beam mask writer tools. We had an operating loss of $281 million, compared to operating income of $76 million in 2021, primarily due to increased spending to drive strategic growth. MD&A 36 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations For additional key highlights of our results of operations, see "A Year in Review." Years Ended (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) December 30, 2023 December 31, 2022 December 25, 2021 Amount % of Net Revenue Amount % of Net Revenue Amount % of Net Revenue Net revenue $ 54,228 100.0 % $ 63,054 100.0 % $ 79,024 100.0 % Cost of sales 32,517 60.0 % 36,188 57.4 % 35,209 44.6 % Gross margin 21,711 40.0 % 26,866 42.6 % 43,815 55.4 % Research and development 16,046 29.6 % 17,528 27.8 % 15,190 19.2 % Marketing, general, and administrative 5,634 10.4 % 7,002 11.1 % 6,543 8.3 % Restructuring and other charges (62) (0.1) % 2 % 2,626 3.3 % Operating income 93 0.2 % 2,334 3.7 % 19,456 24.6 % Gains (losses) on equity investments, net 40 0.1 % 4,268 6.8 % 2,729 3.5 % Interest and other, net 629 1.2 % 1,166 1.8 % (482) (0.6) % Income before taxes 762 1.4 % 7,768 12.3 % 21,703 27.5 % Provision for (benefit from) taxes (913) (1.7) % (249) (0.4) % 1,835 2.3 % Net income 1,675 3.1 % 8,017 12.7 % 19,868 25.1 % Less: Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (14) % 3 % % Net income attributable to Intel $ 1,689 3.1 % $ 8,014 12.7 % $ 19,868 25.1 % Earnings per share attributable to Inteldiluted $ 0.40 $ 1.94 $ 4.86 MD&A 37 Table of Contents Revenue Segment Revenue Walk $B 2023 vs. 2022 2023 revenue was $54.2 billion, down $8.8 billion, or 14%, from 2022. CCG revenue decreased 8% from 2022 primarily due to lower notebook and desktop volume driven by lower demand across market segments, partially offset by increased volume in the second half of the year as customer inventory levels normalized compared to higher levels in the first half. Notebook ASPs decreased due to the relative strength in the education market segment resulting in a higher mix of small core products combined with a higher mix of older generation products, and were partially offset by higher desktop ASPs due to an increased mix of product sales to the commercial and gaming market segments. DCAI revenue decreased 20% from 2022 due to lower server volume resulting from a softening CPU data center market, which was partially offset by higher server ASPs from a lower mix of hyperscale customer-related revenue and a higher mix of high core count products. NEX revenue decreased 31% from 2022 as customers tempered purchases to reduce existing inventories and adjust to a lower demand environment across product lines. Incentives offered to certain customers to accelerate purchases and to strategically position our products with customers for market segment share purposes, contributed approximately $700 million to our revenue during Q4 2023, the impacts of which were contemplated in our financial guidance for Q1 2024, as included in our Form 8-K dated January 25, 2024. 2022 vs. 2021 2022 revenue was $63.1 billion, down $16.0 billion, or 20%, from 2021. CCG revenue was down 23% from 2021 due to lower notebook and desktop volume in the consumer and education market segments, and lower revenue due to the continued ramp down from the exit of our 5G smartphone modem business and lower demand for our wireless and connectivity products. Notebook volume decreased, driven by lower demand in the consumer and education market segments, while ASPs increased due to the resulting product mix. Desktop volume decreased, driven by lower demand in the consumer and education market segments while ASPs increased due to an increased mix of commercial products. DCAI revenue decreased 15% from 2021 due to lower server demand from enterprise customers, and due to customers tempering purchases to reduce existing inventories in a softening data center market. The decrease was partially offset by higher revenue from our FPGA business. Server ASPs decreased due to customer and product mix. NEX revenue increased 10% from 2021, driven by higher Ethernet ASPs and increased demand for 5G products, partially offset by lower demand for Network Xeon. Mobileye revenue increased 35% from 2021, primarily driven by higher demand for EyeQ products and Mobileye Supervision systems. The decrease in our "all other" revenue was due to revenue from the divested NAND memory business of $4.3 billion recognized in 2021, for which historical results are recorded in all other, and $584 million of revenue recognized in 2021 from a prepaid customer supply agreement. Incentives offered to certain customers to accelerate purchases and to strategically position our products with customers for market segment share purposes, particularly in CCG, contributed approximately $1.7 billion to our revenue during Q4 2022. MD&A 38 Table of Contents Gross Margin We derived most of our overall gross margin in 2023 from the sale of products in the CCG and DCAI operating segments. Our overall gross margin dollars in 2023 decreased by $5.2 billion, or 19%, compared to 2022, and in 2022 decreased by $16.9 billion, or 39%, compared to 2021. Gross Margin $B (Percentages in chart indicate gross margin as a percentage of total revenue) (In Millions) $ 21,711 2023 Gross Margin (2,709) Lower product margin primarily due to lower server revenue (1,832) Lower product margin driven by lower revenue across NEX product lines (1,704) Lower product margin primarily from lower notebook and desktop revenue (1,654) Higher unit cost primarily from increased mix of Intel 7 products (411) Higher period charges related to excess capacity charges 1,973 Lower period charges driven by the sell-through of previously reserved inventory and lower reserves taken in 2023 788 Lower period charges primarily driven by a decrease in product ramp costs 723 Absence of the inventory impairment charge taken in 2022 related to the wind down of our Intel Optane memory business 204 Absence of corporate charges from a patent settlement in 2022 (533) Other $ 26,866 2022 Gross Margin (4,717) Lower product margin primarily from lower notebook and desktop revenue (3,325) Lower product margin primarily due to lower server revenue (2,651) Higher unit cost primarily from increased mix of Intel 7 products and 10nm SuperFin (2,090) Higher period charges primarily driven by inventory reserves taken in 2022 (1,995) Lower gross margin related to the divested NAND memory business (2,148) Higher period charges primarily associated with the ramp up of Intel 4 and other product enhancements (723) Inventory impairment related to the wind down of our Intel Optane memory business (584) Lack of revenue recognized in Q1 2021 from a prepaid customer supply agreement (423) Higher period charges due to excess capacity charges (313) Higher stock-based compensation (204) Corporate charges from patent settlement 484 Lower period charges due to a benefit related to insurance proceeds received for business interruption and property damage that occurred in 2020 522 Higher product margin from NEX Ethernet revenue 785 Higher product margin from DCAI other product revenue 433 Other $ 43,815 2021 Gross Margin MD&A 39 Table of Contents We are making capital investments in furtherance of our IDM 2.0 strategy. As of December 30, 2023, our capital investments classified as construction in progress totaled $43.4 billion ($36.7 billion as of December 31, 2022). These assets have not yet been placed into service and have not yet begun depreciating. As these construction-in-progress assets are placed into service, we expect to incur depreciation expense that impacts future production costs and, ultimately, cost of sales. To the extent we are unable to grow our revenues to offset these production costs, our gross margin and operating income will be unfavorably affected. Additionally, we could incur asset impairments on property, plant, and equipment assets if our IDM 2.0 strategy is not successful. Effective January 2023, we increased the estimated useful life of certain production machinery and equipment from 5 to 8 years. When compared to the estimated useful life in place as of the end of 2022, we estimate total depreciation expense in 2023 was reduced by $4.2 billion. We estimate this change resulted in an approximately $2.5 billion increase to gross margin, $400 million decrease in R&D expenses, and $1.3 billion decrease in ending inventory values. These estimates are based on the assets in use and under construction as of the beginning of 2023 and are calculated at that point in time. Most of the depreciation expense associated with this useful life change is included in overhead cost pools and is combined with other costs and other depreciation expense from assets placed into service after this calculation was performed, for which such costs are subsequently absorbed into inventory as each product passes through our manufacturing process. As a result, the actual amount of impact from the useful life change that is included in our 2023 operating results and financial position is impractical to individually and specifically quantify on a year-over-year basis. Operating Expenses Total R&D and MG&A expenses for 2023 were $21.7 billion, down 12% compared to 2022. These expenses represent 40.0% of revenue for 2023 and 38.9% of revenue for 2022. In support of our strategy, we continue to make significant investments to accelerate our process technology roadmap. This requires increased investments in R&D and focused efforts to attract and retain talent. We have implemented certain cost-cutting measures while we continue to improve our product execution. Research and Development $B Marketing, General, and Administrative $B (Percentages indicate expenses as a percentage of total revenue) Research and Development 2023 vs. 2022 R&D decreased by $1.5 billion, or 8%, driven by the following: - The effects of various cost-cutting measures + Higher incentive-based cash compensation 2022 vs. 2021 R&D spending increased by $2.3 billion, or 15%, driven by the following: + Investments in our process technology + Increase in corporate spending + Investments in leadership products - Incentive-based cash compensation Marketing, General, and Administrative 2023 vs. 2022 MG&A decreased by $1.4 billion, or 20%, driven by the following: - Lower corporate spending as a result of various cost-cutting measures + Higher incentive-based cash compensation 2022 vs. 2021 MG&A spending increased by $459 million, or 7%, driven by the following: + Increase in corporate spending - Incentive-based cash compensation MD&A 40 Table of Contents Restructuring and Other Charges Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 30, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Dec 25, 2021 Employee severance and benefit arrangements $ 222 $ 1,038 $ 48 Litigation charges and other (329) (1,187) 2,291 Asset impairment charges 45 151 287 Total restructuring and other charges $ (62) $ 2 $ 2,626 The 2022 Restructuring Program was approved to rebalance our workforce and operations and to create efficiencies and improve our product execution in alignment with our strategy. In 2023, activity related to the 2022 Restructuring Program consisted of cash settlements of previously accrued employee severance and benefit arrangements, as well as incremental accruals throughout the year and was substantially complete as of December 30, 2023. The 2022 Restructuring Plan, in conjunction with other initiatives, reduced our cost structure and allowed us to reinvest certain of these cost savings in resources and capacity to develop, manufacture, market, sell, and deliver our products in furtherance of our strategy. The cumulative cost of the 2022 Restructuring Program as of December 30, 2023 was $1.3 billion. Litigation charges and other includes a $1.2 billion benefit in 2023 due to a reduction in the previously accrued $2.2 billion charge as a result of developments in the VLSI litigation in Q4 2023. 2023 charges also include a $401 million charge for an EC-imposed fine. In 2009, we recorded and paid an EC-imposed fine that was subsequently annulled, resulting in a benefit of $1.2 billion in 2022. Also in 2023, we mutually agreed with Tower to terminate the acquisition agreement that was entered into during 2022 and, as a result, we paid a $353 million termination fee to Tower in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Gains (Losses) on Equity Investments and Interest and Other, Net Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 30, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Dec 25, 2021 Ongoing mark-to-market adjustments on marketable equity securities $ (36) $ (787) $ (130) Observable price adjustments on non-marketable equity securities 17 299 750 Impairment charges (214) (190) (154) Sale of equity investments and other 273 4,946 2,263 Gains (losses) on equity investments, net $ 40 $ 4,268 $ 2,729 Interest and other, net $ 629 $ 1,166 $ (482) Gains (Losses) on Equity Investments, Net Ongoing mark-to-market adjustments recognized in 2023, 2022, and 2021 were primarily driven by our investment in Montage Technology, Co. Ltd. (Montage). In 2023, we recognized $243 million of initial fair value adjustments in sale of equity investments and other related to the public market offerings of four of our portfolio companies; in 2022, we recognized $278 million of initial fair value adjustments related to the public market offerings of five of our portfolio companies; and in 2021, we recognized $447 million related to the public market offerings of four of our portfolio companies. In 2022, the sale of McAfee Corp. (McAfee) consumer business was completed, and we received $4.6 billion in cash for the sale of our remaining share of McAfee, recognizing a $4.6 billion gain in sale of equity investments and other. In 2021, we recognized McAfee dividends of $1.3 billion, which included a special dividend of $1.1 billion paid in connection with the sale of McAfee's enterprise business, and recognized $228 million related to the partial sale of our investment in McAfee. In 2021, we recognized $471 million in observable price adjustments related to our investment in Beijing Unisoc Technology Ltd. Interest and Other, Net In 2022, we recognized a gain of $1.0 billion from the first closing of the divestiture of our NAND memory business. MD&A 41 Table of Contents Provision for (Benefit from) Taxes Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 30, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Dec 25, 2021 Income before taxes $ 762 $ 7,768 $ 21,703 Provision for (benefit from) taxes $ (913) $ (249) $ 1,835 Effective tax rate (119.8) % (3.2) % 8.5 % Our effective tax rate decreased in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by our R&D tax credits, which provide a tax benefit based on our eligible R&D spending and are not dependent on lower income before taxes, and a higher proportion of our income being taxed in non-US jurisdictions. Our benefit from income taxes increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to a higher proportion of our income being taxed in non-US jurisdictions. The 2023 shift in income was attributable to the 2022 tax costs associated with the gains recognized from the equity sale of McAfee and the divestiture of our NAND memory business. Our effective tax rate decreased in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily driven by a higher proportion of our income being taxed in non-US jurisdictions and a change in tax law from 2017 Tax Reform related to the capitalization of R&D expenses that went into effect in January 2022. In 2022 we recognized a benefit from taxes as compared to a provision for taxes in 2021 as the higher proportion of our income being taxed in non-US jurisdictions and the change in tax law from 2017 Tax Reform were only partially offset by the tax costs associated with the gains recognized from the equity sale of McAfee and the divestiture of our NAND memory business. In 2021 the OECD announced an Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting including Pillar Two Model Rules defining the global minimum tax, which calls for the taxation of large multinational corporations at a minimum rate of 15%. Subsequently multiple sets of administrative guidance have been issued. Many non-US tax jurisdictions have either recently enacted legislation to adopt certain components of the Pillar Two Model Rules beginning in 2024 (including the European Union Member States) with the adoption of additional components in later years or announced their plans to enact legislation in future years. We are continuing to evaluate the impacts of enacted legislation and pending legislation to enact Pillar Two Model Rules in the non-US tax jurisdictions we operate in. Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe we have sufficient sources of funding to meet our business requirements for the next 12 months and in the longer term. Cash generated by operations, supplemented by our total cash and investments1, is our primary source of liquidity for funding our strategic business requirements. These sources are further supplemented by our committed credit facilities and other borrowing capacity and certain other Smart Capital initiatives that we have undertaken. Our short-term funding requirements include capital expenditures for worldwide manufacturing and assembly and test, including investments in our process technology roadmap; working capital requirements; and potential and pending acquisitions, strategic investments, and dividends. Our long-term funding requirements incrementally contemplate investments in significant manufacturing expansion plans and investments to accelerate our process technology. These plans include expanding existing operations in Arizona, Ireland, Israel, New Mexico, and Oregon, and investing in new leading-edge manufacturing facilities in Germany and Ohio. We also expect to continue to benefit from government incentives and any incentives above our current expectations would enable us to increase the pace and size of our investments. Conversely, incentives below our expectations would increase our anticipated cash requirements. We expect our planned capital investments to continue to put pressure on our adjusted free cash flow in the short term. As we invest in multiple expansions, we expect our capital expenditures to continue to be higher than historical levels for the next several years. We expect to adjust the cadence of our investments based on the execution of our roadmap and changing business conditions. As of December 30, 2023, we had commitments for capital expenditures of $20.4 billion for 2024 and had $7.1 billion in capital expenditures committed in the long term. As of December 30, 2023, other purchase obligations and commitments in 2024 under our binding commitments for purchases of goods and services were $2.7 billion, with an additional $5.6 billion committed in the long term. We have additional obligations as part of our ordinary course of business, beyond those committed for capital expenditures and other purchase obligations and commitments for purchases of goods and services. For example, see "Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about our lease obligations, which include supply agreements structured as leases; "Note 8: Income Taxes" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about our tax obligations, including impacts from Tax Reform enacted in 2017 for the one-time transition tax on previously untaxed foreign earnings; and "Note 13: Borrowings" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about our debt obligations. The expected timing of payments of our obligations is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. In addition, some of our purchasing requirements are not current obligations and are therefore not included in the amounts above. For example, some of these requirements are not handled through binding contracts or are fulfilled by vendors on a purchase order basis within short time horizons. MD&A 42 Table of Contents When assessing our current sources of liquidity, we include our total cash and investments1 as follows: (In Millions) Dec 30, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,079 $ 11,144 Short-term investments 17,955 17,194 Loans receivable and other 5 463 Total cash and investments1 $ 25,039 $ 28,801 Total debt $ 49,266 $ 42,051 1 See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" within MD&A. We maintain a diverse investment portfolio that we continually analyze based on issuer, industry, and country. Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments are in investment-grade securities. Our sources of liquidityin 2023 included $1.5 billion from partner contributions, net proceeds of $1.6 billionfrom a secondary offering of Mobileye Class A common stock, $1.4 billion of cash proceeds from the sale of minority stakes in our IMS business to both Bain Capital and TSMC, and government incentives of $1.0 billion. Other potential sources of liquidity include our commercial paper program and our automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, pursuant to which we may offer an unspecified amount of debt, equity, other securities, and non-recourse factoring arrangements with third-party financial institutions. Under our commercial paper program, we have an ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up to $10.0 billion and, as of December 30, 2023, we had no commercial paper obligations outstanding. During 2023, we issued a total of $11.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, refinancing our outstanding debt and funding for working capital and capital expenditures. We also amended both our five-year $5.0 billion variable-rate revolving credit facility agreement, extending that maturity date by one year to March 2028, and our 364-day $5.0 billion credit facility agreement, extending the maturity date to March 2024. As of December 30, 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding on the revolving credit facilities. In Q1 2023, we declared a reduced quarterly dividend on our common stock. This dividend reduction reflects our deliberate approach to capital allocation, is expected to support the critical investments needed to execute our business strategy, and is designed to position us to create long-term value. In January 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share on the company's common stock, which will be payable on March 1, 2024 to stockholders of record as of February 7, 2024. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Our cash and investments and related cash flows may be affected by certain discretionary actions we may take with customers and suppliers to accelerate or delay certain cash receipts or payments to manage liquidity, among other factors, for our strategic business requirements. In 2023 these actions included, among others, negotiating with suppliers to optimize our payment terms and conditions, adjusting the amounts and timing of cash flows associated with customer sales programs and collections, managing inventory levels and purchasing practices, and selling certain of our accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions. While such actions have benefited, and may further benefit, cash flow in the near term, we may experience a corresponding detriment to cash flow in future periods as these actions cease or as the impacts of these actions reverse or normalize. Our cash flows for each period were as follows: Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 30, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Dec 25, 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 11,471 $ 15,433 $ 29,456 Net cash used for investing activities (24,041) (10,231) (24,283) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 8,505 1,115 (6,211) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (4,065) $ 6,317 $ (1,038) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. For 2023 compared to 2022, the $4.0 billion decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by lower 2023 net income after adjusting for non-cash items, partially offset by 2023 cash-favorable working capital changes compared to 2022. For 2022 compared to 2021, the $14.0 billion decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by lower 2022 net income after adjusting for non-cash items, including the gain on the sale of McAfee and the pre-tax gain from the divestiture of our NAND business, partially offset by 2022 cash-favorable working capital changes compared to 2021. MD&A 43 Table of Contents Investing Activities Investing cash flows consist primarily of capital expenditures; investment purchases, sales, maturities, and disposals; proceeds from capital-related government incentives; and proceeds from divestitures. Our capital expenditures were $25.8 billion in 2023 ($24.8 billion in 2022 and $18.7 billion in 2021). The increase in cash used for investing activities in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to a lack of proceeds from the divestiture of our NAND business and from the sale of our remaining McAfee share that occurred in 2022, lower maturities and sales of short-term investments, and increased capital expenditures. These unfavorable cash flow impacts during 2023 were partially offset by higher 2023 proceeds from capital-related government incentives and by other cash favorable investment activities, including lower acquisitions during 2023. The decrease in cash used for investing activities in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to increased maturities and sales of short-term investments, proceeds from the divestiture of our NAND business, and proceeds from the sale of our remaining share of McAfee, partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures. Financing Activities Financing cash flows consist primarily of payment of dividends to stockholders, issuance and repayment of short-term and long-term debt, and proceeds from partner contributions and equity-related issuances. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to higher debt issuances along with lower repayment of long-term debt, decreased dividend payments to stockholders, and increased proceeds from sales of subsidiary shares, partially offset by commercial paper issuances in 2022 that were subsequently repaid in 2023. Our total dividend payments were $3.1 billion in 2023, compared to $6.0 billion in 2022. We have paid a cash dividend in each of the past 125 quarters. Cash provided by financing activities in 2022 compared to cash used for financing activities in 2021 was primarily due to higher commercial paper and debt issuances, our 2022 curtailment of common stock repurchases, proceeds from the Mobileye IPO, and partner contributions for joint investments, partially offset by higher 2022 debt repayments. Critical Accounting Estimates The methods, assumptions, and estimates that we use in applying our accounting policies may require us to apply judgments regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. We consider an accounting policy to be a critical estimate if: (1) we must make assumptions that are uncertain when the judgment is made, and (2) changes in the estimate assumptions, or selection of a different estimate methodology, could have a significant impact on our financial position and the results that we report in our Consolidated Financial Statements. While we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information available when the estimate was made. Refer to "Note 2: Accounting Policies" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our critical accounting estimates, which are as follows, as well as our significant accounting policies: Inventoriesthe transition of manufacturing costs to inventory, net of factory excess capacity costs. Inventory reflected at the lower of cost or net realizable value considering forecasted future demand and market conditions; Long-lived assetsthe valuation methods and assumptions used in assessing the impairment and evaluation of useful lives of property, plant, and equipment; identified intangibles; and impairment of goodwill, including the determination of asset groupings and the identification and allocation of goodwill to reporting units; and Loss contingenciesthe estimation of when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. MD&A 44 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to disclosing financial results in accordance with US GAAP, this document contains references to the non-GAAP financial measures below. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about our operating performance, enable comparison of financial trends and results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business and measuring our performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are used in our performance-based RSUs and our cash bonus plans. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on one or more of the following items, as well as the related income tax effects. Beginning in 2023, income tax effects are calculated using a fixed long-term projected tax rate of 13% across all adjustments. We project this long-term non-GAAP tax rate on an annual basis using a five-year non-GAAP financial projection that excludes the income tax effects of each adjustment. The projected non-GAAP tax rate also considers factors such as our tax structure, our tax positions in various jurisdictions, and key legislation in significant jurisdictions where we operate. This long-term non-GAAP tax rate may be subject to change for a variety of reasons, including the rapidly evolving global tax environment, significant changes in our geographic earnings mix, or changes to our strategy or business operations. Management uses this non-GAAP tax rate in managing internal short- and long-term operating plans and in evaluating our performance; we believe this approach facilitates comparison of our operating results and provides useful evaluation of our current operating performance. Prior-period non-GAAP financial measures have been retroactively adjusted to reflect this updated approach. Our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with US GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with US GAAP and reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. Non-GAAP adjustment or measure Definition Usefulness to management and investors NAND memory business We completed the first closing of the divestiture of our NAND memory business to SK hynix on December 29, 2021 and fully deconsolidated our ongoing interests in the NAND OpCo Business in Q1 2022. We exclude the impact of our NAND memory business in certain non-GAAP measures. While the second closing of the sale is still pending and subject to closing conditions, we deconsolidated this business in Q1 2022 and management does not view the historical results of the business as a part of our core operations. We believe these adjustments provide investors with a useful view, through the eyes of management, of our core business model and how management currently evaluates core operational performance. In making these adjustments, we have not made any changes to our methods for measuring and calculating revenue or other financial statement amounts. Acquisition-related adjustments Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets consists of amortization of intangible assets such as developed technology, brands, and customer relationships acquired in connection with business combinations. Charges related to the amortization of these intangibles are recorded within both cost of sales and MG&A in our US GAAP financial statements. Amortization charges are recorded over the estimated useful life of the related acquired intangible asset, and thus are generally recorded over multiple years. We exclude amortization charges for our acquisition-related intangible assets for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures because these charges are inconsistent in size and are significantly impacted by the timing and valuation of our acquisitions. These adjustments facilitate a useful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparison to our past operating performance and provide investors with additional means to evaluate cost and expense trends. Share-based compensation Share-based compensation consists of charges related to our employee equity incentive plans. We exclude charges related to share-based compensation for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures because we believe these adjustments provide better comparability to peer company results and because these charges are not viewed by management as part of our core operating performance. We believe these adjustments provide investors with a useful view, through the eyes of management, of our core business model, how management currently evaluates core operational performance, and additional means to evaluate expense trends, including in comparison to other peer companies. MD&A 45 Table of Contents Non-GAAP adjustment or measure Definition Usefulness to management and investors Patent settlement A portion of the charge from our IP settlements represents a catch-up of cumulative amortization that would have been incurred for the right to use the related patents in prior periods. This charge related to prior periods is excluded from our non-GAAP results; amortization related to the right to use the patents in the current and ongoing periods is included. We exclude the catch-up charge related to prior periods for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures because this adjustment facilitates comparison to past operating results and provides a useful evaluation of our current operating performance. Optane inventory impairment A charge in 2022 as we initiated the wind-down of our Intel Optane memory business. We exclude these impairments for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures because these charges do not reflect our current operating performance. This adjustment facilitates a useful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to past operating results. Restructuring and other charges Restructuring charges are costs associated with a formal restructuring plan and are primarily related to employee severance and benefit arrangements. Other charges may include periodic goodwill and asset impairments, certain pension charges, and costs associated with restructuring activity. 2023 includes a benefit as a result of developments in the VLSI litigation in Q4 2023, an EC-imposed fine, and a fee related to the termination of our agreement to acquire Tower. 2022 includes a benefit related to the annulled EC fine and 2021 includes a charge related to the VLSI litigation. We exclude restructuring and other charges, including any adjustments to charges recorded in prior periods, for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures because these costs do not reflect our core operating performance. These adjustments facilitate a useful evaluation of our core operating performance and comparisons to past operating results and provide investors with additional means to evaluate expense trends. (Gains) losses on equity investments, net (Gains) losses on equity investments, net consists of ongoing mark-to-market adjustments on marketable equity securities, observable price adjustments on non-marketable equity securities, related impairment charges, and the sale of equity investments and other. We exclude these non-operating gains and losses for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures because it provides better comparability between periods. The exclusion reflects how management evaluates the core operations of the business. (Gains) losses from divestiture (Gains) losses are recognized at the close of a divestiture, or over a specified deferral period when deferred consideration is received at the time of closing. Based on our ongoing obligation under the NAND wafer manufacturing and sale agreement entered into in connection with the first closing of the sale of our NAND memory business on December 29, 2021, a portion of the initial closing consideration was deferred and will be recognized between first and second closing. We exclude gains or losses resulting from divestitures for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures because they do not reflect our current operating performance. These adjustments facilitate a useful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to past operating results. Adjusted free cash flow We reference a non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted free cash flow, which is used by management when assessing our sources of liquidity, capital resources, and quality of earnings. Adjusted free cash flow is operating cash flow adjusted for (1) additions to property, plant, and equipment, net of proceeds from capital-related government incentives and partner contributions, (2) payments on finance leases, and (3) proceeds from the McAfee equity sale in 2022. This non-GAAP financial measure is helpful in understanding our capital requirements and sources of liquidity by providing an additional means to evaluate the cash flow trends of our business. Since the 2017 divestiture, McAfee equity distributions and sales contributed to prior operating and free cash flow, and while the McAfee equity sale in Q1 2022 would have typically been excluded from adjusted free cash flow as an equity sale, we believe including the sale proceeds in adjusted free cash flow facilitate a better, more consistent comparison to current and past presentations of liquidity. Total cash and investments Total cash and investments is used by management when assessing our sources of liquidity, which include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and loans receivable and other. This non-GAAP measure is helpful in understanding our capital resources and liquidity position. MD&A 46 Table of Contents Following are the reconciliations of our most comparable US GAAP measures to our non-GAAP measures presented: Years Ended (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Dec 30, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Dec 25, 2021 Net revenue $ 54,228 $ 63,054 $ 79,024 NAND memory business (4,306) Non-GAAP net revenue $ 54,228 $ 63,054 $ 74,718 Gross margin percentage 40.0 % 42.6 % 55.4 % Acquisition-related adjustments 2.3 % 2.1 % 1.6 % Share-based compensation 1.3 % 1.0 % 0.4 % Patent settlement % 0.3 % % Optane inventory impairment % 1.1 % % NAND memory business % % 0.6 % Non-GAAP gross margin percentage 43.6 % 47.3 % 58.1 % Earnings per share attributable to Inteldiluted $ 0.40 $ 1.94 $ 4.86 Acquisition-related adjustments 0.33 0.37 0.36 Share-based compensation 0.77 0.76 0.50 Patent settlement 0.05 Optane inventory impairment 0.18 Restructuring and other charges (0.01) 0.65 (Gains) losses on equity investments, net (0.01) (1.04) (0.67) (Gains) losses from divestiture (0.04) (0.28) NAND memory business (0.33) Adjustments attributable to non-controlling interest (0.02) Income tax effects (0.37) (0.31) (0.32) Non-GAAP earnings per share attributable to Inteldiluted $ 1.05 $ 1.67 $ 5.05 Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 30, 2023 Dec 31, 2022 Dec 25, 2021 Dec 26, 2020 Dec 28, 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 11,471 $ 15,433 $ 29,456 $ 35,864 $ 32,618 Net additions to property, plant, and equipment (23,228) (23,724) (18,567) (14,086) (15,948) Payments on finance leases (96) (345) Sale of equity investment 4,561 Adjusted free cash flow $ (11,853) $ (4,075) $ 10,889 $ 21,778 $ 16,670 Net cash used for investing activities $ (24,041) $ (10,231) $ (24,283) $ (21,351) $ (13,314) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ 8,505 $ 1,115 $ (6,211) $ (12,842) $ (18,129) MD&A 47 Table of Contents Risk Factors and Other Key Information Risk Factors The following summarizes the material factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky. When any one or more of the following risks materialize from time to time, our business, reputation, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations can be materially and adversely affected, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations can also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations, or by various risks that are generally applicable to most companies. Due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Refer also to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, including in the MD&A and Financial Statements and Supplemental Details sections. We are in a highly competitive and rapidly changing industry. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological, geopolitical, and market developments; changes in industry standards; changes in customer and end-user needs, expectations, and preferences; and frequent product introductions and improvements. When we do not anticipate or respond to these developments, our competitive position can weaken, and our products or technologies can become uncompetitive or obsolete. Our competitive environment has intensified in recent years, and we expect it to continue to do so in the future. If we are not able to compete effectively, or if our foundry strategy is unsuccessful, our financial results will be adversely affected, including through reduced revenue and gross margin, and we may be required to accelerate the write-down of the value of certain assets. We face intense competition across our product portfolio. Our competitors include companies offering platform products, such as AMD and Qualcomm; accelerator products such as GPUs, including those offered by NVIDIA; other accelerator products such as ASICs, application-specific standard products, and FPGAs; memory and storage products; connectivity and networking products; and other semiconductor products. Some of these competitors have developed or utilize competing computing architectures and platforms, such as the ARM architecture*, and these architectures and platforms can produce beneficial network effects for competitors when an ecosystem of customers and application developers for such architectures and platforms grows at scale. For example, ARM-based products are being used in PCs and servers, which could lead to further development and growth of the ARM ecosystem. We also compete with internally developed semiconductors from OEMs, cloud service providers, and others, some of whom are customers. Some of these customers vertically integrate their own semiconductor designs with their software assets and/or customize their designs for specific computing workloads. For example, in 2020, Apple introduced PC products utilizing its own internally developed ARM-based semiconductor designs in place of our client CPUs, and we face increasing competition from Apple's products and ecosystem. Most of our competitors rely on third-party foundries, such as TSMC or Samsung, for the manufacture and assembly and test of their semiconductor components and products. Manufacturing process and assembly and test improvements introduced by such foundries have contributed, and may continue to contribute, to increasingly competitive offerings by our competitors. Our process technology roadmap to regain transistor performance and power performance leadership by 2025 is subject to a number of risks, and we could fail to realize our goals, including due to changes in competitor technology roadmaps, changes affecting our projections regarding our technology or competing technology, and the risks described in the risk factor "The development and implementation of new semiconductor products and manufacturing technologies are subject to many risks and uncertainties." As an IDM, we have higher capital expenditures and R&D spending than many of our fabless competitors due to the high ongoing investments required to maintain leading-edge process technology and manufacturing capacity. We also face new sources of competition as a result of changes in industry participants through, for example, acquisitions or business collaborations, as well as new entrants, including in China, which could have a significant impact on our competitive position. For example, we could face increased competition as a result of China's programs to promote a domestic semiconductor industry and supply chains. Our products compete based on a number of factors, including performance, energy efficiency, ease-of-integration, ease-of-use, innovative design, features, workload optimization, price, quality, reliability, security, software ecosystem and developer support, time-to-market, reliable product roadmap execution, brand recognition, customer support and customization, and availability. The importance of these factors varies by product and market segment. To the extent our products do not meet our customers' requirements across these factors in an increasingly competitive landscape, our business and results of operations can be harmed. Introduction of competitive new products and technologies, aggressive pricing, and other actions taken by competitors can harm demand for our products, exert downward pricing pressure on our products, and adversely affect our business. For example, our competitors have introduced data center and client platform products with performance improvements and additional processor core counts that have contributed to an increasingly competitive environment. Further, our DCAI revenue, platform ASPs and market share were negatively impacted by the competitive environment and the shift of customer spend towards GPUs during the past few years. Additionally, a number of business combinations and strategic partnerships in the semiconductor industry have occurred in recent years, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation could also lead to fewer customers, partners, or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 48 Table of Contents We have limited experience in the highly competitive and capital-intensive third-party foundry business. As we pursue our strategy to establish IFS as a major provider of foundry capacity to manufacture semiconductors for others, we will face intense competition from well-established competitors such as TSMC, Samsung, Global Foundries (GF), United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC). To succeed, we will need to compete effectively across factors such as availability and time-to-market of manufacturing technology; advances in manufacturing processes in areas such as performance, performance per watt, and density; multi-chip packaging; system integration; manufacturing capacity; price; margin; ease of use; quality; yields; customer satisfaction; and ecosystem support. Building and maintaining a competitive foundry business requires high ongoing investments to maintain leading-edge process technology and manufacturing capacity, which investments in many instances must be made ahead of customer commitments and may not be recouped. Moreover, many of the largest potential IFS customers are fabless semiconductor companies whose products compete with our own. As a result, our strategy requires us to overcome customer concerns regarding protection of confidentiality information, intellectual property, and foundry capacity, among other competitive concerns, to attract and retain such customers. Our limited third-party foundry experience also means we must continue to hire and retain talented employees with relevant foundry experience with respect to both leading-edge and legacy nodes. Our efforts may be hindered by the higher costs of, regulatory and environmental restrictions imposed upon, and time it takes to build fabrication and assembly and test facilities in the jurisdictions in which we operate and plan to build new or upgrade existing foundry facilities as compared to the jurisdictions in which our competitors predominantly operate their foundry facilities. Our construction projects to expand capacity require available sources of labor, materials, and equipment. Increasing demand for such sources, including from other foundries; supply constraints, labor shortages, and other adverse market conditions; issues with permits or approvals; on-site incidents; and other construction issues arise from time to time and can result in significant delays and increased costs for our projects, as well as legal and reputational harm. These significant hurdles to our foundry strategy make it highly risky and our success highly uncertain. We are making significant, long-term and inherently risky investments in R&D and manufacturing facilities that may not realize a favorable return. To compete successfully, we must maintain an effective R&D program, develop new products and manufacturing processes, improve our products and processes, and make significant capital investments in new and existing manufacturing facilities, all ahead of competitors and market demand. The R&D efforts and capital investments we require are intensive as we compete across both product and process technologies. We incurred R&D expenses of $16.0 billion in 2023, $17.5 billion in 2022, and $15.2 billion in 2021. We are focusing our R&D efforts across several key areas, including process and packaging technology, our xPU products and features, AI, and software. These include ambitious initiatives, such as our efforts to introduce five new manufacturing process technologies, or nodes, in four years and our unified oneAPI portfolio of developer tools. Our investments are typically long-term and, even where successful, often do not contribute to our operating results for a number of years. We cannot guarantee that our efforts will deliver the benefits we anticipate, including as a result of our new products or technologies falling short of expectations or the offerings of competitors. For example, we previously experienced significant delays in the implementation of our 10nm process technology, and during 2020, we announced that our then 7nm process technology would be delayed relative to our prior expectations. In such instances where we do not timely introduce new manufacturing process technologies that improve performance, performance per watt, transistor density, die utilization, core counts, and/or new features such as optimizations for AI and other workloads, with sufficient manufacturing yields and operational efficiency, relative to competing foundry processes, we have faced and will face cost, product performance, and time-to-market disadvantages relative to our competitors and adverse impacts to our financial condition as a result of higher operating costs, including as a result of additional costs from unused manufacturing capacity, higher leverage and borrowing costs, and pressure on our credit ratings. Further, we are not always able to timely or successfully develop new products, including as a result of bugs, late changes to features due to customer requests, or other design challenges. For example, in 2022, we announced that the release of Intel's 4th Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processor would be delayed from the first half of 2022 to the second half of 2022. To the extent our R&D efforts do not develop new products on schedule with improvements in areas like performance, performance per watt, die utilization, and core counts, and/or with new features such as optimizations for AI and other workloads, our competitive position can be harmed. We have adopted a disaggregated design approach for some of our future products, in which different processors and components can be manufactured on different processes and connected by advanced packaging technology into a single package. This approach introduces new areas of complexity in design and manufacturability, particularly in the deployment of advanced packaging technologies, several of which are novel, have a limited manufacturing history, and/or have increased costs. Delays or failures in implementing disaggregated designs could adversely affect our ability to timely introduce competitive products. For example, adapting a processor or component design for a new or different manufacturing process involves additional R&D expense and can result in delays in the development of the associated product and higher costs due to the utilization of more advanced and expensive capital equipment. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 49 Table of Contents The investments required for our process technology roadmap and our worldwide manufacturing and assembly and test require capital expenditures above our historical levels. In recent years, the semiconductor manufacturing industry has seen very significant increases in the capital investments required for manufacturing facilities utilizing leading process technologies, including as a result of the use of EUV photolithography tools. Our ownership and operation of such high-tech fabrication facilities, and our need to build new and expand existing facilities in anticipation of future demand, has resulted and will continue to result in our incurring large capital outlays and high costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. Such capital outlays and costs include those related to utilization of existing facilities, facility construction and equipment, R&D, and the employment and training of a highly skilled workforce. To the extent customers are unwilling to pay prices to access the features that our process and product investments are expected to deliver or demand for our products, foundry capacity and assembly and test capacity decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, our gross margin and operating income can be disproportionately affected due to our high fixed cost structure, which is difficult to reduce quickly in response to lower demand and other unfavorable market factors. We could also be required to write off inventory or record excess manufacturing capacity charges, which would also lower our gross margin and operating income. To the extent the demand decrease is prolonged, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to write down our long-lived assets, which would increase our expenses. We may also be required to shorten the useful lives of under-used facilities and equipment and accelerate depreciation. As we continue to make substantial investments in increasing our manufacturing capacity as part of our IDM 2.0 strategy, these underutilization risks may be heightened. Conversely, at times, demand may increase or we may fail to forecast accurately or produce the mix of products demanded. To the extent we are unable to add capacity or increase production fast enough, we are at times required to make production decisions and/or are unable to fully meet market demand, which can result in a loss of revenue opportunities or market share, legal claims, and/or damage to customer relationships. The development and implementation of new semiconductor products and manufacturing technologies are subject to many risks and uncertainties. We are continually engaged in the development of next-generation technologies. Forecasting our progress and schedule for developing advanced nodes and other technologies is challenging, and at times we encounter unexpected delays due to the complexity of interactions among steps in the manufacturing process, challenges in using new materials or new production equipment, and other issues. Diagnosing defects in our manufacturing processes often takes a long time, as manufacturing throughput times can delay our receipt of data about defects and the effectiveness of fixes, and defects can be more serious and difficult to resolve than initially anticipated. We are not always successful or efficient in developing or implementing new process nodes and manufacturing processes. We experienced significant delays in implementing our 10nm process technology, and in 2020, we encountered a defect mode in the development of our then 7nm process technology that resulted in delays relative to our prior expectations. In 2022, Intel's 4th Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processor was delayed to allow for more platform and product validation time. These delays have allowed competitors using third-party foundries, such as TSMC, to benefit from advancements in manufacturing processes introduced ahead of us, including improvements in performance, energy efficiency, and other features, which have helped increase the competitiveness of their products. Because of these prior delays in our process technologies, we may experience greater adverse competitive impacts in the event of delays in the development of future manufacturing process technologies and products. Our efforts to innovate involve significant expense and carry inherent risks, including difficulties in designing and developing next-generation process and packaging technologies, and investments in manufacturing assets and facilities that are made years in advance. We cannot guarantee that we will realize the expected benefits of next-generation process technologies, including the expected cost, performance, power, and density advantages, or that we will achieve an adequate return on our capital and R&D investments, particularly as the development of new nodes has grown increasingly expensive. In such circumstances, we may be required to write down the value of some of our manufacturing assets and facilities, increasing our expenses. Risks inherent in the development of next-generation process technologies include production timing delays, lower-than-anticipated manufacturing yields, longer manufacturing throughput times, failure to achieve expected performance, power, and area improvements, and product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications). Production timing delays have at times caused us to miss customer product design windows, which can result in lost revenue opportunities and damage to our customer relationships. Furthermore, when the introduction of next-generation process nodes is delayed, adding cores or other competitive features to our products can result in larger die size products, manufacturing supply constraints, and increased product costs. Lower manufacturing yields and longer manufacturing throughput times, compared to previous process nodes, can increase our product costs, adversely affect our gross margins, and contribute to manufacturing supply constraints. A new process node typically has higher costs compared to a mature node due to factors that include higher depreciation costs and lower yields, and costs and yields at times do not improve at the same rate as on prior nodes. As the die size of our products has increased and our manufacturing process nodes have shrunk, our products and manufacturing processes have grown increasingly complex and more susceptible to product defects and errata, which at times also contribute to production timing delays and lower yields that may also increase our costs to manufacture and warranty our products. Our disaggregated design strategy poses increased logistical risks and challenges, particularly where we decide to manufacture different product components on different process technologies, including third-party foundries' process technologies. To combine components in a single package, they need to be manufactured on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities, while the manufacturing processes we utilize may have differing yields, throughput times, and capacity constraints. We may be required to safely store some components pending the manufacture of others. Delays or quality issues with one component could limit our ability to manufacture the entire completed product. In addition, the packaging technologies used to combine these components can increase our costs and may introduce additional complexity and quality issues. To the extent we are unable to manage these risks, our ability to timely supply competitive products can be harmed and our costs could increase. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 50 Table of Contents From time to time, disruptions in the production process result from errors; defects in materials; delays in obtaining or revising permits and licenses; interruptions in our supply of materials, resources, or production equipment; adverse changes in equipment productivity; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, power interruptions, equipment malfunctions, or unsafe working conditionsall of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields and could result in production timing delays. Production issues periodically lead to increased costs and affect our ability to meet product demand, which can adversely impact our business and the results of operations. Our implementation of new business strategies and investments in new businesses, products, and technologies are inherently risky and do not always succeed. Our IDM 2.0 strategy requires implementation of new business strategies, as well as many internal structural, systems and process changes. We have entered new businesses and introduced new products and services as we seek to capitalize on the opportunities presented by growth in semiconductor demand, ubiquitous compute, pervasive connectivity, cloud to edge infrastructure, AI, and sensing. In recent years, we have expanded our product offerings in areas such as discrete GPUs, mobility solutions, AI accelerators, IPU products, and silicon photonics. As part of our IDM 2.0 strategy, we announced plans to establish IFS as a major provider of foundry capacity to manufacture semiconductors for others and to implement an internal foundry operating model through updates to our processes, systems, and guardrails between our manufacturing and our individual product-based business units. The implementation of our internal foundry operating model requires many internal structural, system, and process changes to support the separation of the product and manufacturing sides of our business and our external foundry business, including a new ERP system. In parallel, we are undertaking significant efforts to separate out portions of our business, such as PSG and IMS, to raise capital and unlock value as we focus on our core product and manufacturing capabilities. Significant business changes are inherently risky and are not always successful. For example, in 2022, we wound down Intel Optane; in 2020, we agreed to sell our NAND memory business to SK hynix; and in 2019, we exited the 5G smartphone modem business based on our determination that there was no clear path to profitability for those businesses. These new and developing areas and products represent a significant portion of our revenue growth opportunity, and they also introduce new sources of competition, including, in some cases, incumbent competitors with established technologies, ecosystems, and customer bases, lower prices, margins, or costs, and greater brand recognition. These developing products and market segments require significant investment, do not always grow as projected or at all, or sometimes adopt competing technologies, and we may not realize an adequate return on our investments. For example, AI and machine learning are increasingly driving innovations in technology, but if we fail to develop leading products for these workloads, or if our customers use competing technologies, we may not realize a return on our investments in these areas. Similarly, we expect intense competition related to the significant opportunity we see in networking infrastructure and the distribution of computing to the network edge and may not succeed in our efforts. To be successful, we need to cultivate relationships with customers and partners in these market segments and continue to improve our offerings. Despite our ongoing efforts, there is no guarantee that we will achieve or maintain market demand or acceptance for our products and services in these various market segments or realize an adequate return on our investments, which could lead to impairment of assets and restructuring charges, as well as opportunity costs. Our Smart Capital approach to capital spending, alternative financing arrangements and pursuit of government grants involves risks and may not be successful. As we pursue our IDM 2.0 strategy, we have utilized our Smart Capital approach to capital spending in an effort to appropriately time and scale our capital investments. To support our capital investments, we have pursued alternative financing arrangements, such as our 2022 joint investment with Brookfield in the manufacturing expansion of our Arizona campus, and expect to enter into similar arrangements in the future. These transactions may fail to advance our business strategy, may include unfavorable pricing or other terms, and may fail to achieve their anticipated benefits. Our partners may also fail to satisfy financial or other obligations on which we rely and we may fail to resolve any potential disputes. Any of these risks, including our ability to effectuate any additional transactions at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, which may limit our ability to raise sufficient capital for our required investments. In addition, as part of our Smart Capital approach, we have applied for, received, and expect to receive additional grants and incentives from domestic and foreign local, regional and national governments. Legislation in the US and EU has been adopted to provide government funding for semiconductor manufacturing expansions in those regions, but there is uncertainty as to the amounts and timing of funding we may receive and as to the conditions and restrictions that may apply to us as a recipient of such funding. For example, we expect to receive substantial grants from the US government under the CHIPS Act to support significant planned new fabrication facilities in the US and the German government under the EU Chips Act to support significant planned new fabrication facilities in Germany. However, governments may choose not to award grants and incentives in sufficient amounts or in a timely manner to support our capital investment plans and to offset the higher costs of operations in many of the locations of our facilities as compared to those of many of our competitors, or we may be unable to comply with the requirements and limitations of such grants and incentives. To the extent such funding is below our expectations, we elect not to accept any grants or incentives due to burdensome compliance requirements, or we are required to return any amounts received from any grants or incentives due to an inability to comply with any requirements or limitations contained therein, our anticipated cash requirements would increase. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 51 Table of Contents Changes in product demand can adversely affect our financial results. Our products are used in different market segments, and demand for our products varies within or among them. It is difficult to forecast these changes and their impact. For example, we expect the PC TAM to grow over time driven by factors such as a larger installed base, demand for AI capabilities, new platforms, shorter replacement cycles, and adoption in new markets; however, the PC industry has been highly cyclical in the past, and these growth expectations may not materialize, or we may fail to capitalize on them. Changes in the demand for our products, particularly our CCG, DCAI, and NEX platform products, have in the past and may in the future reduce our revenue, lower our gross margin, or require us to write down the value of our assets. Important factors that lead to variation in the demand for our products include: business conditions, including downturns in the market segments in which we operate, or in global or regional economies; consumer confidence, income levels, and customer capital spending, which can be impacted by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing or spending, taxation, interest rates, the credit market, current or expected inflation, employment, and energy or other commodity prices; geopolitical conditions, including trade policies and geopolitical tensions and conflicts; our ability to timely introduce competitive products; competitive and pricing pressures, including new product introductions and other actions taken by competitors; the level of our customers' inventories and computing capacity; customer order patterns and order cancellations, including as a result of maturing product cycles for our products, customers' products, and related products such as operating system upgrade cycles; and disruptions affecting customers, such as the delays in obtaining tools, components, and other supplies as a result of COVID-19-related port shutdowns in China that negatively impacted demand for our business in 2022, as well as the industry substrate and component shortages that negatively impacted demand across several of our businesses in 2021; market acceptance and industry support of our products and services, including the introduction and availability of software and other products used together with our products, such as software to harness the new AI capabilities of our latest CPUs, as well as our foundry services offerings through IFS; and customer product needs and emerging technology trends, including changes in the levels and nature of customer and end-user computing workloads, such as work- and learn-from-home trends. Our pricing and margins vary across our products and market segments due in part to marketability of our products and differences in their features or manufacturing costs. For example, our core product offerings range from lower-priced and entry-level platforms, such as those based on Intel Atom processors, to higher-end platforms based on Intel Xeon processors. Our ancillary product offerings that extend beyond our core product lines typically have significantly lower margins than our higher-priced products, and at times are not profitable. To the extent demand shifts from our higher-priced to lower-priced core products in any of our market segments, or our ancillary products represent a greater share of our mix of products sold, our gross margin percentage has decreased and may decrease again. Macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical tensions and conflicts, including changes to trade policies and regulations, present significant risks to us in many jurisdictions. We have manufacturing, assembly and test, R&D, sales, and other operations in many countries, and some of our business activities are concentrated in one or more geographic areas. Our operations rely upon a supply chain that is also highly distributed, and with reliance in some instances on supplies or materials available in only one or more geographic areas. Moreover, sales outside the US accounted for 74% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023, with revenue from billings to China contributing 27% of our total revenue. As a result, our operations and our financial results, including our ability to execute our business strategy, manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products, and the demand for our products, are at times adversely affected by a number of global and regional factors outside of our control. Adverse changes in global or regional economic conditions periodically occur, including recession or slowing growth; changes or uncertainty in fiscal, monetary, or trade policy; higher interest rates; tighter credit; inflation; lower capital expenditures by businesses, including on IT infrastructure; increases in unemployment; and lower consumer confidence and spending. Adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions can significantly harm demand for our products and make it more challenging to forecast our operating results and make business decisions, including regarding prioritization of investments in our business. An economic downturn or increased uncertainty may also lead to increased credit and collectability risks, higher borrowing costs or reduced availability of capital and credit markets, reduced liquidity, adverse impacts on our suppliers, failures of counterparties, including financial institutions and insurers, asset impairments, and declines in the value of our financial instruments. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 52 Table of Contents Trade policies and disputes at times result in increased tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist measures, which can increase our manufacturing costs, make our products less competitive, reduce demand for our products, limit our ability to sell to certain customers, limit our ability to procure components or raw materials, or impede or slow the movement of our goods across borders. Increasing protectionism and economic nationalism may lead to further changes in trade policies and regulations, domestic sourcing initiatives, or other formal and informal measures that could make it more difficult to sell our products in, or restrict our access to, some markets. They can also result in declining consumer confidence and slowing economic growth or recession, and could cause our customers to reduce, cancel, or alter the timing of their purchases with us. Sustained geopolitical tensions could lead to long-term changes in global trade and technology supply chains, domestic sourcing initiatives, and decoupling of global trade networks, which could make it more difficult to sell our products in, or restrict our access to, some markets and have a material adverse effect on our business and growth prospects. In particular, geopolitical and trade tensions between the US and China, one of our largest markets, have led to increased tariffs and trade restrictions, including tariffs applicable to some of our products, and have affected customer ordering patterns. Further, the US has imposed restrictions on the export of US-regulated products and technology to certain Chinese technology companies, including certain of our customers. Specifically, in 2022 the US significantly increased US export controls on semiconductor manufacturing equipment and on artificial intelligence and advanced computing products. In 2023, the US added to the restrictions in all three areas and also worked with Japan and the Netherlands to align on additional restrictions on semiconductor manufacturing equipment. During this time, the US has increasingly added Chinese companies to prohibited lists. In response, China has restricted US access to certain minerals and has blocked certain companies that provide products to Taiwan's military from selling products in China. These restrictions have in some instances reduced our sales and in a number of instances required specific governmental authorizations or exceptions - $3.2 billion, or 6%, of our 2023 revenue was dependent upon US government export control authorizations, an amount that we expect may increase in future years. These and potential future restrictions could adversely affect our financial performance and result in reputational harm to us. In addition, a number of semiconductor companies in China, including Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), are making significant investments, in many instances with the support of the Chinese government, in advanced semiconductor technologies to enable such companies to develop products and technologies that compete with ours. It is difficult to predict what further trade-related actions governments may take, the extent to which we may be able to mitigate the effects of any such actions, and the longer-term implications of such actions on the market opportunities for us and the competition we may face. We can also be adversely affected by other global and regional factors that periodically occur, including: geopolitical and security issues, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, political instability, human rights concerns, and terrorist activity, including, for example: Russias war with Ukraine, initiated in 2022, which resulted: in the imposition of financial and other sanctions and export controls against Russia and Belarus that caused us and other companies to limit or suspend Russian operations (we had no exports to Russia in 2023); Russia-imposed currency restrictions and regulations and other retaliatory trade and other actions; increased supply, commodity, and other costs; and increased risk of cyberattacks; tensions and conflict affecting Israel, where we have multiple semiconductor development centers and a leading-edge manufacturing facility and where our Mobileye business is headquartered and has most of its operations, and in surrounding areas, such as past conflicts in Lebanon and the current conflict in the Red Sea; and rising tensions between China and Taiwan; natural disasters, public health issues (including pandemics), and other catastrophic events; inefficient infrastructure and other disruptions, such as supply chain interruptions, materials shortages or delays, and large-scale outages or unreliable provision of services from utilities, transportation, data hosting, or telecommunications providers; formal or informal imposition of new or revised export, import, or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions, tariffs, and changes in the ability to obtain export licenses, which could be changed without notice; government restrictions on, or nationalization of, our operations in any country, or restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings from or distribute compensation or other funds in a particular country; adverse changes relating to government grants, tax credits, or other government incentives, including more favorable incentives provided to competitors; differing employment practices and labor issues, including restricted access to talent; ineffective legal protection of our IP rights in certain countries; local business and cultural factors that differ from our current standards and practices; continuing uncertainty regarding social, political, immigration, and tax and trade policies in the US and abroad; and fluctuations in the market values of our domestic and international investments, and in the capital and credit markets, which can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, interest rate changes, financial results, political risk, sovereign risk, or other factors. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 53 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous risks associated with the evolving market for products with AI capabilities. The markets and use cases for products with AI capabilities have been rapidly evolving, are difficult to predict and may impact demand for our products. For example, in the last few years the demand for high-end GPUs for model training increased dramatically and has resulted and may continue to result in a significant shift in DCAI customer spend. The significant investments we have made to develop products and software to address what we believe will be increasing demand for AI capabilities may be insufficient, and we face significant hurdles, including whether demand will materialize, whether third-party developers will develop the software to utilize the AI capabilities of our products, and whether we will be successful in developing products that can compete with offerings by established competitors. Our use of AI technology may subject us to reputational, financial, legal, or regulatory risks. As we incorporate AI technology into our products and services, any failure to address concerns relating to the responsible use of the evolving AI technology in our products and services may cause harm to our reputation or financial liability and, as such, may increase our costs to address or mitigate such risks and issues. AI technology may create ethical issues, generate defective algorithms, and present other risks that create challenges with respect to its adoption. In addition, evolving rules, regulations, and industry standards governing AI may require us to expend significant resources to modify, maintain, or align our business practices or products to comply with US and non-US rules and regulations, the nature of which cannot be determined at this time. Several jurisdictions around the globe, including the EU and certain US states, have already proposed or enacted laws governing AI. US federal agencies are likely to release AI regulations in the near future in light of the Biden administrations October 30, 2023 Executive Order on AI. The regulatory environment surrounding the impact of the implementation of AI on our products and services may adversely affect our ability to produce and export products and as a result may cause harm to our reputation and financial liability. We rely upon a complex global supply chain. We have a highly complex global supply chain composed of thousands of suppliers. These suppliers provide direct materials for our production processes; supply tools, equipment, and IP (via licenses) for our factories; deliver logistics and packaging services; and supply software, lab and office equipment, and other goods and services used in our business. We also rely on suppliers to provide certain components for our products and to manufacture and assemble and test some of our components and products. From time to time, we are negatively impacted by supply chain issues, including: suppliers extending lead times, experiencing capacity constraints, limiting or canceling supply, allocating supply to other customers including competitors, delaying or canceling deliveries, or increasing prices; supplier quality issues; cybersecurity events, IP or other litigation, man-made or natural disasters, public health issues (including pandemics), operational failures, or other events that disrupt suppliers; long lead times to qualify alternate or additional suppliers, or the unavailability of qualified alternate suppliers; and increased legislation, regulation, or stakeholder expectations regarding responsible sourcing practices, such as heightened reporting and other obligations with regard to environmental impacts, the risk of forced labor, or supplier conduct that does not meet such standards, which can result in supply chain disruptions, the loss of a supplier, and the government seizure of goods. These and other supply chain issues can increase our costs, disrupt or reduce our production, delay our product shipments, prevent us from meeting customer demand, damage our customer relationships, or negatively affect our reputation. They may keep us from successfully implementing our business strategy and can materially harm our business, competitive position, results of operation, and financial condition. From time to time, our customers experience disruptions or shortages in their own supply chains that constrain their demand for our products. During the past several years, macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions, as well as outbreaks of COVID-19, caused supply chain disruptions and delays in obtaining tools and other components, and the semiconductor industry experienced widespread shortages of substrates and other components and available foundry manufacturing capacity. These shortages have previously limited our ability to supply customer demand in certain of our businesses, and have adversely affected customer demand for our products, as some customers have been unable to procure sufficient quantities of third-party components used together with our products to produce finished systems. It is difficult to predict the future impact of these shortages when they occur. To obtain future supply of certain materials and components, particularly substrates, and third-party foundry manufacturing capacity, we have entered into arrangements with some of our suppliers that involve long-term purchase commitments and/or large prepayments. These arrangements may not be adequate to meet our requirements, or our suppliers may fail to deliver committed volumes on time or at all, or their financial condition may deteriorate. If future customer demand over the horizon of such arrangements falls below our expectations, we could have excess or obsolete inventory, unneeded capacity, and increased costs, and our prepayments may not be fully utilized, and in some cases may not be fully recoverable. We utilize third-party foundries and component suppliers to manufacture or supply certain components and products for areas such as networking, communications, graphics, programmable semiconductor solutions, and memory. As part of our IDM 2.0 strategy, we expect to increase our use of third-party foundries. Delays in the development of foundries future manufacturing processes could delay the introduction of products or components we design for such processes, and insufficient foundry capacity could prevent us from meeting customer demand. We typically have less control over delivery schedules, design and manufacturing co-optimization, yields, quality, product quantities, and costs for components and products that are manufactured by third parties. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 54 Table of Contents Where possible, we seek to have several sources of supply. However, for certain components, services, materials, and equipment, we rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location, which can impact the nature, quality, availability, and pricing of the products and services available to us. For example, ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) is currently the sole supplier of EUV photolithography tools that we are deploying in our Intel 4 and subsequent manufacturing process nodes. These tools are highly complex to develop and produce, and increasingly costly, and from time to time there are increases in lead times or delays in their development and availability, which could delay the development or ramp of our future process nodes. As a further example, a limited number of third-party foundries offer leading-edge manufacturing processes, and these providers are geographically concentrated in Asia. Supplier consolidation or business failures can also reduce the pool of qualified suppliers. We are subject to the risks of product defects, errata, or other product issues. From time to time, we identify product defects, errata, and other product issues, which can result from problems in our product design or our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. Components and products we purchase or license from third-party suppliers, or gain through acquisitions, can also contain defects. Product issues also sometimes result from the interaction between our products and third-party products and software. We face risks if products that we design, manufacture, or sell, or that include our technology, cause personal injury or property damage, even where the cause is unrelated to product defects or errata. These risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, market segments, technologies, or applications, including transportation, autonomous driving, healthcare, communications, financial services, and other industrial, critical infrastructure, and consumer uses. Costs from defects, errata, or other product issues could include: writing off some or all of the value of inventory; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; providing consideration to customers, including reimbursement for certain costs they incur; defending against litigation and/or paying resulting damages; paying fines imposed by regulatory agencies; and reputational harm. These costs could be large and may increase expenses and lower gross margin, and/or result in delay or loss of revenue. Mitigation techniques designed to address product issues, including software and firmware updates, are not always available on a timely basisor at alland do not always operate as intended or effectively resolve such issues for all applications. We and third parties, such as hardware and software vendors, make prioritization decisions about which product issues to address, which can delay, limit, or prevent development or deployment of a mitigation and harm our reputation and result in costs. Product defects, errata, or other product issues and/or mitigation techniques can result in product failures, adverse performance and power effects, reboots, system instability or unavailability, loss of functionality, data loss or corruption, unpredictable system behavior, decisions by customers and end users to limit or change the applications in which they use our products or product features, and other issues. Product issues can damage our reputation, negatively affect product demand, delay product releases or deployment, result in legal liability, or make our products less competitive, which could harm our business and financial results. Subsequent events or new information can develop that change our assessment of the impact of a product issue. In addition, our liability insurance coverage has certain exclusions or may not adequately cover liabilities incurred. Our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim, and losses not covered by insurance could be large, which could harm our financial condition. We face risks related to security vulnerabilities in our products. We or third parties regularly identify security vulnerabilities with respect to our processors and other products, as well as the operating systems and workloads that run on them and the components that interact with them. Components and IP we purchase or license from third parties for use in our products, as well as industry-standard specifications we implement in our products, are also regularly subject to security vulnerabilities. Our processors and other products are being used in application areas that create new or increased cybersecurity and privacy risks, including applications that gather and process large amounts of data, such as the cloud or Internet of Things, and critical infrastructure and automotive applications. The security vulnerabilities identified in our processors include a category known as side-channel vulnerabilities, such as the variants referred to as "Spectre" and "Meltdown." Additional categories and variants have been identified and are expected to continue to be identified. Publicity about these and other security vulnerabilities has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, increased attempts by third parties to identify additional vulnerabilities. Security and manageability features in our products cannot make our products absolutely secure, and these features themselves are subject to vulnerabilities and attempts by third parties to identify additional vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities are not always mitigated before they become known. We, our customers, and the users of our products do not always promptly learn of or have the ability to fully assess the magnitude or effects of a vulnerability, including the extent, if any, to which a vulnerability has been exploited. Subsequent events or new information can develop that changes our assessment of the impact of a security vulnerability, including additional information learned as we develop and deploy mitigations or updates, become aware of additional variants, evaluate the competitiveness of existing and new products, and address future warranty or other claims or customer satisfaction considerations, as well as developments in the course of any litigation or regulatory inquiries or actions over these matters. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 55 Table of Contents Mitigation techniques designed to address security vulnerabilities in our products, including software and firmware updates or other preventative measures, are not always available on a timely basisor at alland at times do not operate as intended or effectively resolve vulnerabilities for all applications. In addition, we are often required to rely on third parties, including hardware, software, and services vendors, as well as our customers and end users, to develop and/or deploy mitigation techniques, and the availability, effectiveness, and performance impact of mitigation techniques can depend solely or in part on the actions of these third parties in determining whether, when, and how to develop and deploy mitigations. Export restrictions may impede our ability to provide updates or patches to customers in certain geographies or that appear on sanctions lists, potentially leaving systems unpatched and open to exploitation. Further, sanctions lists may include third parties with whom we need to interact for coordinated vulnerability disclosure, which may impair our ability to receive information about vulnerabilities and to deliver mitigations for them. We and such third parties make prioritization decisions about which vulnerabilities to address, which can delay, limit, or prevent development or deployment of a mitigation and harm our reputation. Security vulnerabilities and/or mitigation techniques can result in adverse performance or power effects, reboots, system instability or unavailability, loss of functionality, data loss or corruption, unpredictable system behavior, decisions by customers and end users to limit or change the applications in which they use our products or product features, and/or the misappropriation of data by third parties. Security vulnerabilities and any limitations or adverse effects of mitigation techniques can adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, customer relationships, prospects, and reputation in a number of ways, any of which may be material. For example, whether or not vulnerabilities involve attempted or successful exploits, they may result in our incurring significant costs related to developing and deploying updates and mitigations, writing down inventory value, defending against product claims and litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, addressing customer satisfaction considerations, providing product replacements or modifications, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. Adverse publicity about security vulnerabilities or mitigations could damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services. These effects may be greater to the extent that competing products are not susceptible to the same vulnerabilities or if vulnerabilities can be more effectively mitigated in competing products. Moreover, third parties can release information regarding potential vulnerabilities of our products before mitigations are available, which, in turn, could lead to attempted or successful exploits, adversely affect our ability to introduce mitigations, or otherwise harm our business and reputation. We are subject to increasing and evolving cybersecurity threats and privacy risks. We face significant and persistent cybersecurity risks due to: the breadth of geographies, networks, and systems we must defend against cybersecurity attacks; the complexity, technical sophistication, value, and widespread use of our systems, products and processes; the attractiveness of our systems, products and processes to threat actors (including state-sponsored organizations) seeking to inflict harm on us or our customers; the substantial level of harm that could occur to us and our customers were we to suffer impacts of a material cybersecurity incident; and our use of third-party products, services and components. Such an incident, whether or not successful, could result in our incurring significant costs related to, for example, rebuilding our internal systems, writing down inventory value, implementing additional threat protection measures, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation or enforcement proceedings, paying damages, providing customers with incentives to maintain a business relationship with us, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties, as well as incurring significant reputational harm. We regularly face attempts by malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our suppliers, customers, partners, end users, or other third parties; steal proprietary, personal, or confidential information related to our business, products, employees, suppliers, or customers; introduce malicious software to our systems or those of our suppliers, customers, partners, end users, or other third parties; interrupt our systems and services or those of our suppliers, customers, or others; or demand ransom to return control of such systems and services. As we grow certain emerging business lines, such as our foundry business and our cloud computing and software-as-a-service offerings, we expect to collect or host significant amounts of highly sensitive customer data, which may increasingly make us a target of attempts to steal or corrupt that data. Individuals and organizations, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, insider threats including employees and third-party service providers, and intruders into our physical facilities, at times attempt to gain unauthorized access to and/or corrupt the processes used to design and manufacture our hardware products and our associated software and services. We are also a frequent target of attackers that intend to sabotage, compromise, take control of, or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products, and services. In some instances, we, our suppliers, our customers, and the users of our products and services may be unaware of a threat or incident or its magnitude and effects, or we may be unable to timely mitigate the impacts of an incident. Cyber attack attempts are increasing in number, magnitude, and technical sophistication, and if successful may expose us and the affected parties to loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions to our business operations, including our manufacturing operations, and could impact our financial results. We expect emerging technologies to contribute to the increasing sophistication of attacks and to lead to new threats. For example, threat actors may leverage emerging AI technologies to develop new hacking tools and attack vectors, exploit vulnerabilities, obscure their activities, and increase the difficulty of threat attribution. As a developer of leading-node processes and widely utilized products, we have been, and expect to continue to be, the subject of intense efforts by sophisticated cyber adversaries, including state-sponsored organizations, who seek to compromise our systems, disrupt our operations or those of users of our products, or steal trade secrets. As geopolitical or armed global conflicts escalate, attacks against us, our customers, or our strategic allies may similarly intensify. For example, from 2019 to 2021, we, along with other companies with meaningful operations in Israel, were targets of concerted cyberattacks. In the fourth quarter of 2020, our Habana Labs subsidiarys network was breached in connection with a suspected unsuccessful ransomware attack, resulting in unauthorized third-party access of certain confidential information. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 56 Table of Contents We are also subject to risks associated with attacks on products, services and components in our supply chain, such as the 2020 compromise of IT infrastructure management software provided by SolarWinds Corporation. These providers can experience breaches of their systems and products, or provide inadequate updates or support, which can impact the security of our systems and our proprietary or confidential information. Since 2021, we have observed an increase in ransomware attacks in our supply chain. In December 2021, a vulnerability named Log4Shell was reported for the widely used Java logging library, Apache Log4j* 2, and similar vulnerabilities affecting commonly used programs and tools were reported in 2022 and 2023. We are required to comply with stringent, complex, and evolving laws, rules, regulations, and standards in many jurisdictions, as well as contractual obligations, relating to cybersecurity and data privacy. Our compliance efforts are complicated by the fact that these requirements and obligations may be subject to uncertain or inconsistent interpretations and enforcement, and may conflict among various jurisdictions. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, certifications, or contractual obligations, or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access to, or unauthorized loss, destruction, use, modification, acquisition, disclosure, release, or transfer of personal information, may result in outcomes such as: requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices; the expenditure of substantial costs, time, and other resources; proceedings or actions against us; legal liability; governmental investigations; enforcement actions; claims; fines; judgments; awards; penalties; sanctions; and potentially costly litigation (including class actions). The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business, including data stored with vendors or other third parties, could result in significantly increased business and security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. Costs to comply with and implement privacy-related and data-protection measures are significant, and noncompliance could expose us to significant monetary penalties, damage to our reputation, suspension of online services or sites in certain countries, and even criminal sanctions. Even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data-protection laws and regulations could result in audits, regulatory inquiries, or proceedings against us by governmental entities or other third parties. We are subject to IP risks, including related litigation and regulatory proceedings. We cannot always protect our IP or enforce our IP rights.We regard our patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other IP rights as important to the success of our business. We rely on IP lawas well as confidentiality and licensing agreements with our customers, employees, technology development partners, and othersto protect our IP and IP rights. Our ability to enforce these rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our IP rights in various countries and other geopolitical factors. We are not always able to obtain protection for our IP or enforce or protect our IP rights. When we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that our IP rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to an opposing party. Our assertion of IP rights may result in another party seeking to assert claims against us, which could harm our business. From time to time, governments adopt regulationsand governments or courts render decisionsrequiring compulsory licensing of IP rights, or governments require products to meet standards that favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our IP rights under any of these circumstances can harm our competitive position and business. In some cases, our IP rights can offer inadequate protection for our innovations. In addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in R&D, product development, and marketing could be reduced. This risk is heightened as competitors for technical talent increasingly seek to hire our employees. Our licenses with other companies and participation in industry initiatives at times allow competitors to use some of our patent rights. Technology companies often bilaterally license patents between each other to settle disputes or as part of business agreements. Some of our competitors have in the past had, and may in the future have, licenses to some of our patents, and under current case law, some of the licenses can exhaust our patent rights as to licensed product sales under some circumstances. Our participation in industry standards organizations or with other industry initiatives at times requires us to offer to license our patents to companies that adopt industry-standard specifications. Depending on the rules of the organization, government regulations, or court decisions, we sometimes have to grant licenses to some of our patents for little or no cost, and as a result, we may be unable to enforce certain patents against others, and the value of our IP rights may be impaired. Third parties assert claims based on IP rights against us and our products, which could harm our business.We face claims based on IP rights from individuals, companies, investment litigation entities, other non-practicing entities, academic and research institutions, and other parties. We have seen an increase in patent assertions and lawsuits initiated by well-funded non-practicing entities, including entities funded by third-party investment firms. These lawsuits can increase our cost of doing business, impact our reputation or relationship with customers, and could disrupt our operations if they succeed in blocking the trade of our products. The patent litigation environment has also become more challenging due to the emergence of venues adopting procedural and substantive rules that make them more favorable for patent asserters and courts in which injunctions are available for non-competitors. As a result, we believe we are facing a more hostile IP litigation environment than in past years. We are typically engaged in a number of disputes involving IP rights.Claims that our products, technologies, or processes infringe the IP rights of others, regardless of their merits, cause us to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve the claims, and they divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business and operations. In addition, we may face claims based on the alleged theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets, confidential information, or end-user data that we obtain in conducting our business. Any such incidents and claims could severely disrupt our business, and we could suffer losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns, and reputational harm. Furthermore, in many instances we agree to indemnify customers for certain IP rights claims against them. IP rights claims against our customers could also limit demand for our products or disrupt our customers' businesses, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 57 Table of Contents As a result of IP rights claims, we could: pay monetary damages, payments to satisfy indemnification obligations, royalties, fines, or penalties; stop manufacturing, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing products or technology subject to claims; need to develop other products or technology not subject to claims, which could be time-consuming or costly; and/or enter into settlement or license agreements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms and may be costly. These IP rights claims could harm our competitive position, result in expenses, or require us to impair our assets. If we alter or stop production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. We rely on access to third-party IP, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.Many of our products are designed to include third-party technology or implement industry standards, which may require licenses from third parties. In addition, from time to time, third parties notify us that they believe we are using their IP. There is no assurance that any necessary licenses or our existing licenses to such third-party IP can be obtained or are available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party technology, or to license IP on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude us from selling certain products or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. To the extent our products include software that contains or is derived from open-source software, we may be required to make the software's source code publicly available and/or license the software under open-source licensing terms. We are subject to risks associated with litigation and regulatory matters. From time to time,we face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, commercial, IP, labor and employment, compliance, and other issues. As described in "Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings, excessive verdicts, or other events could occur, including monetary damages, fines, penalties, or injunctions stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. An unfavorable outcome can result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regardless of the outcome, litigation and regulatory proceedings can be costly, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, harmful to our reputation, and distracting to management. We must attract, retain, and motivate key talent. We believe that hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical talent, sales representatives, and other professionals are critical to our business. The competition for highly skilled employees in our industry is intense, with the demand often exceeding supply. Competitors for technical talent increasingly seek to hire our employees, and the availability of flexible, hybrid, or work-from-home arrangements has both intensified and expanded competition. In addition, changes in immigration policies may further limit the pool of available talent and impair our ability to recruit and hire technical and professional talent. From time to time, we have intensified our efforts to recruit and retain talent, such as during 2021 and 1H 2022, and these efforts have increased our expenses. Further, we may not be successful in attracting, retaining, and motivating the workforce necessary to deliver on our strategy, and we have been required to curtail our planned hiring and reduce our workforce to respond to business conditions that differ from our expectations, which can be disruptive, compromise our ability to deliver on our strategy and workforce goals, and impact our ability to recruit in the future. Changes in employment-related laws applicable to our workforce practices may also result in increased expenses and less flexibility in how we meet our changing workforce needs. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based awards, such as RSUs, and performance-based cash incentive awards. Sustained declines in our stock price or lower stock price performance relative to our competitors have been reducing the retention value of our share-based awards, which can impact the competitiveness of our compensation. Our employee hiring and retention also depend on our ability to build and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace culture and be viewed as an employer of choice. To the extent our compensation programs and workplace culture are not viewed as competitive, or changes in our workforce and related restructuring, reduction-in-force or other initiatives are not viewed favorably, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees can be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. In addition, significant or prolonged turnover may negatively impact our operations and culture, as well as our ability to successfully maintain our processes and procedures, including due to the loss of historical, technical, and other expertise. Changes in our management team and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. To the extent we do not effectively hire, onboard, retain, and motivate key employees, our business can be harmed. We are subject to risks associated with our strategic transactions and investments. We routinely evaluate opportunities and enter into agreements for possible acquisitions, divestitures, and other strategic transactions, which are an important component of our financial allocation strategy. These transactions involve numerous risks, including: our inability to identify opportunities in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us; failure of the transaction to advance our business strategy and failure of its anticipated benefits to materialize; disruption of our ongoing operations and diversion of our management's attention; failure of partners to satisfy financial or other obligations on which we rely; our inability to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding a project, property, or entity; failure to complete a transaction in a timely manner, or at all, due to our inability to obtain required government or other approvals on a timely basis or without materially burdensome conditions or mandated acquisitions, divestitures, or disposals, IP disputes or other litigation, difficulty in obtaining financing on terms acceptable to us, or other unforeseen factors; Risk Factors and Other Key Information 58 Table of Contents our failure to realize a satisfactory return on our investment, potentially resulting in an impairment of goodwill and other assets, and restructuring charges; our inability to effectively enter new market segments through our strategic transactions or retain customers and partners of acquired businesses; our inability to retain key personnel of acquired or majority-owned businesses or our difficulty in integrating or separating employees, business systems, and technology or otherwise operating the acquired or majority-owned business; controls, processes, and procedures of acquired or majority-owned businesses that do not adequately ensure compliance with laws and regulations and create complexity and inconsistency in application of controls, processes and procedures, and our failure to identify and/or address compliance issues, including accounting errors, or liabilities; our inability to resolve impasses or disputes with partners, including as a result of differences in our interests or goals; our failure to identify, or our underestimation of, commitments, liabilities, accounting and other risks associated with acquired businesses or assets, majority-owned businesses or novel transactions; and the potential for our transactions to result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities or significant additional debt. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition, divestiture or partial divestiture, or several concurrent strategic transactions. Moreover, our resources are limited and our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we at times need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions or otherwise investing our resources in a manner that could help us achieve our financial or strategic objectives. Where an existing investment does not strategically align to our key priorities, we routinely evaluate opportunities for possible divestitures and other options. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of divestitures due to risks that include unfavorable prices and terms; changes in market, macroeconomic, or geopolitical conditions affecting the regions or industries in which we or counterparties operate; changes in applicable laws; failure to receive regulatory or governmental approvals; limitations or restrictions due to regulatory or governmental approvals, litigation, contractual terms, or other conditions; delays in closing; lack of support by third parties; actions by competitors; adverse effects on our business relationships, operating results, or business due to the announcement and pendency of such transactions; and continued financial obligations, unanticipated liabilities, or transition costs associated with such transactions. In some cases, we are not able to divest investments on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we make investments in public and private companies to further our strategic and financial objectives and to support certain key business initiatives. These companies can include early-stage companies still defining their strategic direction. Many of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable and illiquid at the time of our initial investment, and we are not always able to achieve a return in a timely fashion, if at all. Our ability to realize a return on our investment in a private company, if any, is typically dependent on the company participating in a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. To the extent any of the companies in which we invest are not successful, which at times includes bankruptcy, we could recognize an impairment and/or lose all or part of our investment. We are subject to sales-related risks. We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. We sell a significant portion of our products through third parties, such as distributors, value-added resellers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors), as well as OEMs and ODMs. We depend on many distributors to help us create end-customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. At times, we rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. Our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products is limited. In addition, our distributors' expertise in the determination and stocking of acceptable inventory levels for some of our products is not always easily transferable to a new distributor; as a result, end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor. Using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure and concentration, credit, and compliance risks. Distributors and other third parties often sell products that compete with our products, and we sometimes need to provide financial and other incentives to focus them on the sale of our products. From time to time, they may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Further, any violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business, including subjecting us to litigation or regulatory risk. Failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors and other third parties may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. From time to time, our products are resold by third parties in an unauthorized "gray market." Our policies and procedures designed to keep our products away from the gray market may not be successful in achieving this objective. Gray market products can distort demand and pricing dynamics in our distribution channel and certain geographies, which at times adversely affects our revenue opportunities. Gray market activity is difficult to monitor and can make forecasting demand more challenging. Gray market products also sometimes include parts that have been altered or damaged, and our reputation may be harmed when these products fail or are found to be substandard. We receive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Collectively, our three largest customers accounted for 40% of our net revenue in 2023, 42% of our net revenue in 2022 and 43% of our net revenue in 2021. We expect a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 59 Table of Contents Industry trends, such as the increasing shift of data center workloads to the public cloud, have increased the significance and purchasing power of certain customers, particularly hyperscalers, in some of our data center-focused businesses. The cloud and cloud applications represent an increasingly demanding computing environment. The further consolidation of computing workloads in the cloud, and consolidation among cloud service providers, can heighten the competitive importance of factors such as collaboration and customization with cloud service provider customers to optimize products for their environments; optimization for cloud services and applications; product performance; energy efficiency; feature differentiation; product quality, reliability, and factors affecting server uptime; and product security and security features. Our competitive position can be eroded to the extent we do not execute effectively across these factors. We are operating in an increasingly competitive environment, including serving cloud service provider customers, and the competitive environment adversely affected our results in DCAI in 2023 and 2022. Some cloud service provider customers have also internally developed, and may continue to develop, their own semiconductors, including designs customized for their specific computing workloads. In addition, cloud services can be marketed to end users based on service levels or features rather than hardware specifications, or they can abstract hardware under layers of software, which can make it more difficult to differentiate our products to customers and end users. The shift of data center workloads to the cloud has also adversely affected, and may continue to affect, sales to enterprise customers when end users have elected to migrate workloads from their own internal data center infrastructures to cloud service providers. To the extent we differentiate our products through customization to meet cloud customer specifications, order changes, delays, or cancellations may result in non-recoverable costs. The loss of key customers, a substantial reduction in sales to them, or changes in the timing of their orders can lead to a reduction in our revenue, increase the volatility of our results, and harm our results of operations and financial condition. For information about our customers who accounted for greater than 10% of our net consolidated revenue, see "Note 3: Operating Segments" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We face risks related to transactions with government entities. We receive proceeds from both US and non-US governments associated with grants, incentives, and sales of our products and services, and we are seeking to increase our sales of products and services to governmental entities in the future. Government demand and payment are often affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, including, with respect to US government contracts, congressional approval of appropriations, and can be adversely impacted by shutdowns of the US federal government. Government contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of those contracts, as well as oversight and penalties for violations. For example, certain agreements with the US government are subject to special rules on accounting, IP rights, expenses, reviews, information handling, security, customers, and/or employees, and failure or inability to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines, and suspension or debarment from future business with the US government. We face risks related to our debt obligations. As we pursue our IDM 2.0 strategy, we have incurred significant debt obligations that could adversely affect our business and financial condition, including our ability to fully implement our strategy. As of December 30, 2023, we had $50.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and other borrowings outstanding. In addition, we have a commercial paper program of up to $10.0 billion and credit facilities to backstop these programs and otherwise provide access to committed capital of up to $10.0 billion. As we continue to pursue our IDM 2.0 strategy, we expect to incur additional indebtedness, refinance our existing debt, and issue additional notes or other debt securities in the future at a variety of interest rates, maturities, and terms. The semiconductor industry is a cyclical business and our revenue, cash flows, and outlook often fluctuate in accordance with this cycle, as well as prevailing macroeconomic conditions, our business strategy, and other risks described in these risk factors. These fluctuations, together with our debt level and related debt service obligations, could have the effect of, among other things, reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing the risk of a future downgrade in our credit ratings that can potentially impact the value of our outstanding debt and increase our borrowing costs. We may also be required to raise additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service obligations, debt refinancing, future acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes, which will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could adversely impact our ability to finance our business strategy and service and repay outstanding indebtedness as it becomes due, all of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and the cost of borrowing. We have significantly reduced our return of capital to stockholders in recent years. In recent years, we have not made repurchases of our stock and reduced the amount of our quarterly dividend. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at the current level, or at all. In addition, we are not obligated to make repurchases under our stock repurchase program and there can be no assurances as to the amount, timing, and execution of any future share repurchases, or that any repurchases will enhance long-term stockholder value. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 60 Table of Contents Laws and regulations can have a negative impact on our business. We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations worldwide that differ among jurisdictions and affect our operations in areas including, but not limited to: IP ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; data privacy and localization requirements; competition; advertising; employment and labor; product regulations; environment, health, and safety requirements; and consumer laws. Compliance with such requirements can be onerous and expensive and may otherwise impact our business operations negatively. For example, unfavorable developments with evolving laws and regulations worldwide related to 5G or autonomous driving technology and MaaS may limit global adoption, impede our strategy, or negatively impact our long-term expectations for our investments in these areas. Expanding privacy legislation and compliance costs of privacy-related and data-protection measures could adversely affect our customers and their products and services, particularly in cloud, Internet of Things, and AI applications, which could in turn reduce demand for our products used for those workloads. Our policies, controls, and procedures designed to help provide for compliance with applicable laws cannot provide assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, or agents will not violate such laws or our policies. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. The technology industry is subject to intense media, political, and regulatory scrutiny, which can increase our exposure to government investigations, legal actions, and penalties. We are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in currency exchange rates. Although most of our sales occur in US dollars, expenses may be paid in local currencies. An increase in the value of the dollar can increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the US where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar can increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as non-US dollar capital expenditures. We also conduct certain investing and financing activities in local currencies. Our hedging programs may not be effective to offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, changes in exchange rates can harm our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our effective tax rate may impact our net income. A number of factors can impact our future effective tax rate or cash payments, which could cause significant variability in our financial results including: changes in the volume and mix of profits earned and location of assets across jurisdictions with varying tax rates; changes in our business or legal entity operating model; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, including payment of interest and penalties; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill; changes in available tax credits, including non-US tax credits, R&D credits and refundable tax credits; expirations or changes in our ability to secure new tax holidays and incentives; changes in US federal, state, or foreign tax laws or their interpretation, including the global implementation of a minimum tax under Pillar Two of the OECD BEPS initiative; changes in US GAAP; and our decision to repatriate non-US earnings for which we have not previously provided for incremental taxes including any local country withholding taxes incurred upon repatriation. Catastrophic events can have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our operations and business, and those of our customers and suppliers, can be disrupted by natural disasters; industrial accidents; public health issues and global pandemics such as COVID 19; cybersecurity incidents; interruptions of service from utilities, transportation restrictions or disruptions, telecommunications, or IT systems providers; manufacturing equipment failures; geopolitical conflict; terrorism; or other catastrophic events. For example, we have at times experienced disruptions in our manufacturing processes as a result of power outages, improperly functioning equipment, and disruptions in supply of raw materials or components, including cybersecurity incidents affecting our suppliers. Our headquarters and many of our operations and facilities are in locations that are prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Global climate change can result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, and flooding, and could disrupt the availability of water necessary for the operation of our fabrication facilities, including our facilities located in water-sensitive regions such as Arizona and Israel. In addition, to the extent we are unable to successfully manage and conserve water resources, our reputation could be harmed. In recent years, the west coast of the US has experienced significant wildfires, including in Oregon, where we have major manufacturing facilities, and in California, where we are headquartered. The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy and the technology industry in particular are unclear but could be severe. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 61 Table of Contents Catastrophic events including global pandemics could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our revenue and require significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. The COVID-19 pandemic previously resulted in substantial economic uncertainty and volatility and disrupted historical patterns related to demand for our products and services that may impact our ability to accurately predict future demand, trends, or other matters that may impact our financial performance. While we maintain business recovery plans, some of our systems are not fully redundant and we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from such disruptions. Furthermore, even if our operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers or suppliers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a catastrophic event, we may experience reduced or cancelled orders or disruptions to our supply chain that may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with environmental, health, safety, and product regulations. The design, manufacturing, assembly and test of our products require the use and purchase of materials and chemicals that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. Our operations and those of our suppliers are further governed by regulations prohibiting the use of forced labor (e.g., mining conflict minerals), and restrictions on other materials, as well as laws or regulations governing the operation of our facilities, sale and distribution of our products, and use of our real property. The scope and interpretation of such laws and regulations, including the materials they govern, are complex and continue to evolve. The procedures and processes in place under our compliance program may become onerous or increasingly expensive to maintain and cannot guarantee compliance by employees or third parties to whom such laws apply. The amendment or expansion of these laws or regulations, as well as our failure or inability to comply with them (including as a result of acquired entities) can result in regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; increased costs; additional remediation obligations; suspension of production; alteration, suspension, or termination of our manufacturing and assembly and test processes, including due to an inability to find, afford, or attain adequate substitute materials, equipment, or processes; damage to our reputation; and restrictions on our operations or sales. In addition, the failure or inability to comply by our suppliers of these materials can require us to suspend or alter our production processes and sources, and result in increased risks and costs. The failure or inability by us or our customers and suppliers to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials can lead to increased costs or future liabilities. Environmental regulations, including with respect to the materials and processes we are permitted to use and as to air quality and wastewater requirements, may impede our ability to manufacture products or expand or modify our manufacturing capability in the future. Environmental laws and regulations sometimes require us to acquire additional pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, cease the use of a particular material or process, remove or remediate hazardous substances, or incur other expenses or liabilities. Regulations in response to climate change could result in increased manufacturing costs associated with air pollution requirements. For example, semiconductor manufacturing uses perfluorocarbons, which have historically made up a large portion of our direct greenhouse gas emissions. New or increased regulations limiting the use of such compounds, or other greenhouse gas emissions, could require us to install additional abatement equipment, purchase carbon offsets, and/or alter, where feasible, our production processes and sources. In addition, new or increased climate change regulation could increase our energy costs, for example as a result of carbon pricing impacts on electrical utilities. Regulations in response to human health concerns may also limit or prohibit the use of a class of chemicals known as per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), which are found in parts, components, process chemicals and other materials used in semiconductor manufacturing. Such chemicals are critical to the manufacturing and functioning of many semiconductor products and there are limited technically and commercially feasible alternatives to them. As we expand our manufacturing capacity as part of our IDM 2.0 strategy, the impacts of future regulation could be magnified. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations are also subject to regulation under environmental laws and regulations. These restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter manufacturing and assembly and test processes. Our initiatives and new legal requirements with respect to corporate responsibility matters present various risks. Our corporate responsibility initiatives, including our RISE strategy and related goals, could expose us to heightened scrutiny and numerous financial, legal, reputational, operational, compliance, and other risks, including lost customer opportunities, which could negatively impact us. Our achievement of initiatives, aspirations, and goals related to corporate responsibility matters, including those related to sustainability, is not guaranteed and is subject to numerous conditions, risks, and expectations; as well as standards, processes, and methodologies that continue to evolve. Further, any failure to set or achieve corporate responsibility initiatives that meet our stakeholders' evolving expectations could also negatively impact us. In addition, we are or expect to become subject to various new or proposed climate-related and other sustainability laws and regulations, including, for example, the state of California's new climate change disclosure requirements, the EU's new Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive and proposed climate-change disclosure requirements from the SEC. Compliance with such laws and regulations, as well as the overall increased focus and scrutiny from the SEC and other regulators, investors, customers, vendors, employees, and other stakeholders concerning ESG and climate matters, could impose additional costs on us and expose us to new risks, including resulting in changes to our current ESG goals. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 62 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Customers We sell our products primarily to OEMs, ODMs, and cloud service providers. ODMs provide design and manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label resellers. In addition, our customers include other manufacturers and service providers, such as industrial and communication equipment manufacturers and other cloud service providers who buy our products through distributor, reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the world. For information on customers who accounted for greater than 10% of our net consolidated revenue, see "Note 3: Operating Segments" within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our worldwide reseller sales channel consists of thousands of indirect customerssystems builders that purchase Intel processors and other products from our distributors. Certain of our microprocessors and other products are also available in direct retail outlets. Sales Arrangements Our products are sold through distribution channels throughout the world. Sales of our products are frequently made via purchase order acknowledgments that contain standard terms and conditions covering matters such as pricing, payment terms, and warranties, as well as indemnities for issues specific to our products, such as patent and copyright indemnities. Because our customers generally order from us on a purchase order basis, they can typically cancel, change, or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty. From time to time, we may enter into additional agreements with customers covering, for example, changes from our standard terms and conditions, new product development and marketing, and private-label branding. Our sales are routinely made using electronic and web-based processes that allow customers to review inventory availability and track the progress of specific goods ordered. Pricing on particular products may vary based on volumes ordered and other factors. We also offer discounts, rebates, and other incentives to customers to increase acceptance of our products and technology. In accordance with contract terms, the revenue for combined performance obligations and standalone product sales is recognized at the time of product shipment from our facilities or delivery to the customer location, as determined by the agreed-upon shipping terms. Our standard terms and conditions of sale typically provide that payment is due at a later date, usually 30 days after shipment or delivery. We assess credit risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis. From this analysis, we establish shipping and credit limits and determine whether we will seek to use one or more credit support protection devices, such as obtaining a parent guarantee, standby letter of credit, or credit insurance. Credit losses may still be incurred due to bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of the customer to pay. Our sales to distributors are typically made under agreements allowing for price protection on unsold merchandise and a right of return on stipulated quantities of unsold merchandise. Under the price protection program, we give distributors credits for the difference between the original price paid and the current price that we offer. Our products typically have no contractual limit on the amount of price protection, nor is there a limit on the time horizon under which price protection is granted. The right of return granted generally consists of a stock rotation program in which distributors can exchange certain products based on the number of qualified purchases made by the distributor. Distribution Distributors typically handle a wide variety of products, including those that compete with our products, and fill orders for many customers. Customers may place orders directly with us or through distributors. We have several distribution warehouses that are located in proximity to key customers. Seasonal Trends Historically, our net revenue has typically been higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year, accelerating in the third quarter and peaking in the fourth quarter. In 2021, continued strong COVID-driven notebook demand in the first half of the year contributed to a flatter trend than we historically observe. In 2022, we had a flatter trend than we historically observe as we experienced the uncertainty and impacts, including demand volatility and supply chain disruption, of macroeconomic conditions, the potential for a recession, and the risk for continued COVID-related disruptions or shutdowns. In 2023, our net revenue seasonality was more consistent with our historical pre-pandemic trend. Marketing Our global marketing objectives are to build a strong, well-known, differentiated, and meaningful Intel corporate brand that drives preference with businesses and consumers, and to offer a limited number of meaningful and valuable brands in our portfolio to aid businesses and consumers in making informed choices about technology purchases. The Intel Core processor family and the Intel Atom, Celeron, Pentium, Intel Movidius, and Intel Xeontrademarks make up our key CPU brands. This year we introduced our new Intel Core Ultra processors, powering the latest AI PCs, and our 5th Gen Intel Xeon processors, built with AI acceleration in every core. We also continue to bring to market new software services including independent attestation security with Intel Trust Authority, Intel Granulate for workload compute optimization, and Intel Developer Cloud to accelerate AI development. Our foundry services business aims to offer leading-edge packaging and process technology, geographically balanced manufacturing capacity and a world-class IP portfolio. Risk Factors and Other Key Information 63 Table of Contents We promote brand awareness and preference and generate demand through our own direct marketing, as well as through co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities primarily include advertising through digital and social media and television, as well as consumer and trade events, industry and consumer communications, and press relations. We market to consumer and business audiences and focus on building awareness and generating demand for our products. Our key messaging focuses on increased performance, improved energy efficiency, and other capabilities such as connectivity. Certain customers participate in cooperative advertising and marketing programs. These cooperative advertising and marketing programs broaden the reach of our brands beyond the scope of our own direct marketing. Certain customers are licensed to place Intel logos on computing devices containing our microprocessors and processor technologies, and to use our brands in their marketing activities. The program partially reimburses customers for marketing activities for products featuring Intel brands, subject to customers meeting defined criteria. These marketing activities primarily include advertising through digital and social media and television, as well as press relations. We have also entered into joint marketing arrangements with certain customers.