ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. MD&A is organized as follows: Overview . Discussion of our business and overall analysis of financial and other highlights affecting the company in order to provide context for the remainder of MD&A. Strategy . Our overall strategy. Critical Accounting Estimates . Accounting estimates that we believe are most important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results and forecasts. Results of Operations . An analysis of our financial results comparing the three months ended March 27, 2010 to the three months ended March 28, 2009. Business Outlook . Our expectations for selected financial items for the second quarter of 2010 and the 2010 full year. Liquidity and Capital Resources . An analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition and potential sources of liquidity. Fair Value of Financial Instruments . Discussion of the methodologies used in the valuation of our financial instruments. The various sections of this MD&A contain a number of forward-looking statements. Words such as expects, goals, plans, believes, continues, may, will, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this filing and particularly in the Business Outlook section (see also Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q). Our actual results may differ materially, and these forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of May 3, 2010. Overview Our goal is to be the preeminent provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the worldwide digital economy. Our primary component-level products include microprocessors, chipsets, and flash memory. Net revenue, gross margin, operating income, and net income for the first quarter of 2010, the fourth quarter of 2009, and the first quarter of 2009 were as follows: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q4 2009 Q1 2009 Net revenue $ 10,299 $ 10,569 $ 7,145 Gross margin $ 6,529 $ 6,840 $ 3,238 Operating income $ 3,448 $ 2,497 $ 647 Net income $ 2,442 $ 2,282 $ 629 After the first quarter of 2009, we believed we were at the bottom of the severe industry correction that began in 2008. Revenue increased in each quarter of 2009, and the strength of our business model can be seen in our first quarter of 2010 results with record first quarter revenue and operating income. Our first quarter revenue was stronger than we expected based on demand for our new 32nm process technology mobile products. Revenue in the PC Client Group was flat from the fourth quarter on higher mobile average selling prices partially offset by seasonal unit declines, despite a 19% decline in overall Intel Atom processor and chipset revenue. We believe the downstream supply chain has replenished inventory over the last year and now is at normal levels. Entering the first quarter, we planned to build additional internal inventory as we started the ramp of our new 32nm products. Though we have enough inventory for current demand projections, better than expected demand in the first quarter prevented us from getting as much buffer inventory in place as we would have liked. 27 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Our overall gross margin percentage was better than expected, declining slightly from the record gross margin percentage in the fourth quarter. This slight decline was a result of higher platform (microprocessor and chipset) unit costs due to a higher proportion of early ramp 32nm process technology products and, to a lesser extent, lower microprocessor sales volume. More recently introduced products tend to have higher average costs which decline as production ramps. This was partially offset by slightly higher average selling prices due to the higher proportion of premium mobile products. We expect our gross margin percentage to increase in the second quarter as unit costs decline on the continued ramp of 32nm process technology. Our product lineup is well positioned across the computing spectrum. The ramp of the 32nm process technology is the fastest in our history. In March 2010, we introduced the Intel Xeon processor 5600 series, our first server and workstation microprocessors based on 32nm process technology. These processors combine robust security capabilities with significantly increased performance over previous generation processors. We continue to execute on our tick-tock technology development cadence and are on track to deliver new 32nm process technology products based on the new Sandy Bridge microarchitecture later in 2010. From a financial condition perspective, we ended the first quarter of 2010 with an investment portfolio of $16.3 billion, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, trading assets, and short-term investments. The cash generating power of our business was evident in the first quarter of 2010 with $4.1 billion of cash from operations. During the first quarter of 2010, we returned $870 million to stockholders through dividends, and in March, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.1575 per common share to be paid in June. Strategy Our goal is to be the preeminent provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the worldwide digital economy. As part of our overall strategy to compete in each relevant market segment, we use our core competencies in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, as well as our financial resources, global presence, brand recognition, and software development. We believe that we have the scale, capacity, and global reach to establish new technologies and respond to customers needs quickly. Some of our key focus areas are listed below: Customer Orientation. Our strategy focuses on developing our next generation of products based on the needs and expectations of our customers. In turn, our products help enable the design and development of new form factors and usage models for businesses and consumers. We offer platforms that incorporate various components designed and configured to work together to provide an optimized computing solution compared to components that are used separately. Architecture and Platforms. We are focusing on improved energy-efficient performance for computing and communications systems and devices. Improved energy-efficient performance involves balancing improved performance with lower power consumption. We continue to develop multi-core microprocessors with an increasing number of cores, which enable improved multitasking and energy efficiency. In addition, to meet the demands of new and evolving netbook, consumer electronics, and various embedded market segments, we offer and are continuing to develop System on a Chip (SoC) products that are designed to provide improved performance due to higher integration, lower power consumption, and smaller form factors. Silicon and Manufacturing Technology Leadership. Our strategy for developing microprocessors with improved performance is to synchronize the introduction of a new microarchitecture with improvements in silicon process technology. We plan to introduce a new microarchitecture approximately every two years and ramp the next generation of silicon process technology in the intervening years. This coordinated schedule allows us to develop and introduce new products based on a common microarchitecture quickly, without waiting for the next generation of silicon process technology. We refer to this as our tick-tock technology development cadence. In keeping with this cadence, we expect to introduce a new microarchitecture using our 32nm process technology later this year. 28 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Strategic Investments. We make investments in companies around the world that we believe will generate financial returns, further our strategic objectives, and support our key business initiatives. Our investments, including those made through our Intel Capital program, generally focus on investing in companies and initiatives to stimulate growth in the digital economy, create new business opportunities for Intel, and expand global markets for our products. Our current investments primarily focus on the following areas: advancing flash memory products, enabling mobile wireless devices, advancing the digital home, enhancing the digital enterprise, advancing high-performance communications infrastructures, and developing the next generation of silicon process technologies. Business Environment and Software . We believe that we are well positioned in the technology industry to help drive innovation, foster collaboration, and promote industry standards that will yield innovation and improved technologies for users. We plan to continue to cultivate new businesses and work to encourage the industry to offer products that take advantage of the latest market trends and usage models. We frequently participate in industry initiatives designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and other aspects of technologies that could be adopted by standards-setting organizations. Through our Software and Services Group, we help enable and advance the computing ecosystem by providing development tools and support to help software developers create software applications and operating systems that take advantage of our platforms. Lastly, we believe that the software expertise of our Wind River Software Group will expedite our growth strategy in the embedded and handheld market segments. We believe that the proliferation of the Internet has driven the need for greater performance in PCs and servers. Older PCs are increasingly incapable of handling the tasks that businesses and individual consumers demand, such as video streaming and editing, web conferencing, online gaming, social networking, and other memory-intensive applications. As these tasks become even more demanding and require more computing power, we believe that businesses and individual consumers will need and want to buy new PCs. We also believe that increased Internet traffic and the increasing use of cloud computing, in which a group of linked servers provide a variety of applications and data to users over the Internet, create a need for greater server infrastructure, including server products optimized for energy-efficient performance and virtualization. We believe that the trend of mobile microprocessor unit growth outpacing the growth in desktop microprocessor units will continue and that the demand for mobile microprocessors will result in the increased development of products with form factors and uses that require low-power microprocessors. We also believe that these products will result in demand that is incremental to that of microprocessors designed for notebook and desktop computers, as a growing number of households have multiple devices for different computing functions. Our silicon and manufacturing technology leadership allows us to develop low-power microprocessors for these and other new uses and form factors. We believe that Intel Atom processors give us the ability to extend Intel architecture and drive growth in new market segments, including a growing number of products that require processors specifically designed for embedded applications, handhelds, consumer electronics devices, and netbooks. We expect that our Intel Atom Developer Program will spur new applications that run on products using Intel Atom processors, which will expedite our growth strategy in these new market segments. The common elements for products in these new market segments are low power consumption and the ability to access the Internet. We are also focusing on the development of a new highly scalable, many-core architecture aimed at parallel processing, the simultaneous use of multiple cores to execute a computing task. This architecture will initially be used as a software development platform for graphics and throughput computing (the need for large amounts of computing performance consistently over a long period of time). Over time, this architecture may be utilized in the development of products for scientific and professional workstations as well as high-performance computing applications. In addition, we offer, and are continuing to develop, advanced NAND flash memory products, focusing on system-level solutions for Intel architecture platforms such as solid-state drives. In support of our strategy to provide advanced flash memory products, we continue to focus on the development of innovative products designed to address the needs of customers for reliable, non-volatile, low-cost, high-density memory. 29 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Estimates The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our consolidated condensed financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Our most critical accounting estimates include: the valuation of non-marketable equity investments and the determination of other-than-temporary impairments, which impact gains (losses) on equity method investments, net, or gains (losses) on other equity investments, net when we record impairments; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of uncertain tax positions), which impact our provision for taxes; and the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. Non-Marketable Equity Investments We regularly invest in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, which range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity investment portfolio, excluding equity derivatives, totaled $3.3 billion as of March 27, 2010 ($3.4 billion as of December 26, 2009). The majority of this balance as of March 27, 2010 was concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment. Our flash memory market segment investments include our investment in IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT) and IM Flash Singapore, LLP (IMFS) of $1.6 billion ($1.6 billion as of December 26, 2009). For further information, see Note 10: Non-Marketable Equity Investments in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Our non-marketable equity investments are recorded using adjusted cost basis or the equity method of accounting, depending on the facts and circumstances of each investment. Our non-marketable equity investments are classified within other long-term assets on the consolidated condensed balance sheets. Non-marketable equity investments are inherently risky, and a number of the companies in which we invest could fail. Their success is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. Depending on their future prospects, the companies may not be able to raise additional funds when the funds are needed or they may receive lower valuations, with less favorable investment terms than in previous financings, and our investments would likely become impaired. Additionally, financial markets and credit markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our being able to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. For further information about our investment portfolio risks, see Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. We determine the fair value of our non-marketable equity investments quarterly for disclosure purposes; however, the investments are recorded at fair value only when an impairment charge is recognized. We determine the fair value of our non-marketable equity investments using the market and income approaches. The market approach includes the use of financial metrics and ratios of comparable public companies, such as projected revenues, earnings, and comparable performance multiples. The selection of comparable companies requires management judgment and is based on a number of factors, including comparable companies sizes, growth rates, industries, development stages, and other relevant factors. In addition, the market approach includes the use of quoted prices in active markets. The income approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow model, which may include one or multiple discounted cash flow scenarios and requires the following significant estimates for the investee: revenue, based on assumed market segment size and assumed market segment share; expenses, capital spending, and other costs; and discount rates based on the risk profile of comparable companies. Estimates of market segment size, market segment share, expenses, capital spending, and other costs are developed by the investee and/or Intel using historical data and available market data. The valuation of our non-marketable investments also takes into account variables such as conditions reflected in the capital markets, recent financing activities by the investees, the investees capital structure, and differences in seniority and rights associated with the investees capital. 30 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) For non-marketable equity investments, the measurement of fair value requires significant judgment and includes quantitative and qualitative analysis of identified events or circumstances that impact the fair value of the investment, such as: the investees revenue and earnings trends relative to pre-defined milestones and overall business prospects; the technological feasibility of the investees products and technologies; the general market conditions in the investees industry or geographic area, including adverse regulatory or economic changes; factors related to the investees ability to remain in business, such as the investees liquidity, debt ratios, and the rate at which the investee is using its cash; and the investees receipt of additional funding at a lower valuation. If the fair value of an investment is below our carrying value, we determine if the investment is other than temporarily impaired based on our quantitative and qualitative analysis, which includes assessing the severity and duration of the impairment and the likelihood of recovery before disposal. If the investment is considered to be other than temporarily impaired, we write down the investment to its fair value. Impairments of non-marketable equity investments were $46 million in the first quarter of 2010. Over the past 12 quarters, including the first quarter of 2010, impairments of non-marketable equity investments ranged from $11 million to $896 million per quarter. This range included impairments of $896 million during the fourth quarter of 2008, primarily related to a $762 million impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire Communications, LLC (Clearwire LLC). IMFT/IMFS IMFT and IMFS are variable interest entities that are designed to manufacture and sell NAND products to Intel and Micron Technology, Inc. at manufacturing cost. We determine the fair value of our investment in IMFT/IMFS using the income approach based on a weighted average of multiple discounted cash flow scenarios of our NAND Solutions Group business, which requires the use of unobservable inputs. Unobservable inputs that require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments are the estimates for projected revenue and discount rate. Changes in management estimates for these unobservable inputs have the most significant effect on the fair value determination. We did not have an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in IMFT/IMFS in the first quarters of 2010 and 2009. It is reasonably possible that the estimates used in the fair value determination could change in the near term, which could result in an impairment of our investment. Long-Lived Assets We assess the impairment of long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or the asset grouping may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under-performance of a business or product line in relation to expectations, significant negative industry or economic trends, and significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets. We measure the recoverability of assets that will continue to be used in our operations by comparing the carrying value of the asset grouping to our estimate of the related total future undiscounted net cash flows. If an asset groupings carrying value is not recoverable through the related undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is measured by comparing the difference between the asset groupings carrying value and its fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Long-lived assets such as goodwill; intangible assets; and property, plant and equipment are considered non-financial assets, and are recorded at fair value only when an impairment charge is recognized. Impairments of long-lived assets are determined for groups of assets related to the lowest level of identifiable independent cash flows. Due to our asset usage model and the interchangeable nature of our semiconductor manufacturing capacity, we must make subjective judgments in determining the independent cash flows that can be related to specific asset groupings. In addition, as we make manufacturing process conversions and other factory planning decisions, we must make subjective judgments regarding the remaining useful lives of assets, primarily process-specific semiconductor manufacturing tools and building improvements. When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter than we had originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of depreciation over the assets new, shorter useful lives. Over the past 12 quarters, including the first quarter of 2010, impairments and accelerated depreciation of long-lived assets ranged from $40 million to $300 million per quarter. 31 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Income Taxes We must make estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities that arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as the interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes in these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. We believe that we will ultimately recover a majority of the deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated condensed balance sheets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, our tax provision would increase in the period in which we determined that the recovery was not likely. Recovery of a portion of our deferred tax assets is impacted by managements plans with respect to holding or disposing of certain investments; therefore, changes in managements plans with respect to holding or disposing of investments could affect our future provision for taxes. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. If we determine that a tax position will more likely than not be sustained on audit, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors such as changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, new audit activity, and effectively settled issues. Determining whether an uncertain tax position is effectively settled requires judgment. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. Inventory The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The estimate of future demand is compared to work-in-process and finished goods inventory levels to determine the amount, if any, of obsolete or excess inventory. As of March 27, 2010, we had total work-in-process inventory of $1,473 million and total finished goods inventory of $1,049 million. The demand forecast is included in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans to enable consistency between inventory valuation and build decisions. Product-specific facts and circumstances reviewed in the inventory valuation process include a review of the customer base, the stage of the product life cycle of our products, consumer confidence, and customer acceptance of our products, as well as an assessment of the selling price in relation to the product cost. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write off inventory, which would negatively impact our gross margin. In order to determine what costs can be included in the valuation of inventory, we must determine normal capacity at our manufacturing and assembly and test facilities, based on historical loadings of wafers compared to total available capacity. If the factory loadings are below the established normal capacity level, a portion of our manufacturing overhead costs would not be included in the cost of inventory, and therefore would be recognized as cost of sales in that period, which would negatively impact our gross margin. We refer to these costs as excess capacity charges. Over the past 12 quarters, excess capacity charges ranged from zero to $680 million per quarter. Accounting Changes and Recent Accounting Standards For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated condensed financial statements, see Note 2: Accounting Changes and Note 3: Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. 32 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Results of Operations - First Quarter of 2010 Compared to First Quarter of 2009 The following table sets forth certain consolidated condensed statements of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Q1 2010 Q1 2009 % of Net % of Net (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Dollars Revenue Dollars Revenue Net revenue $ 10,299 100.0 % $ 7,145 100.0 % Cost of sales 3,770 36.6 % 3,907 54.7 % Gross margin 6,529 63.4 % 3,238 45.3 % Research and development 1,564 15.2 % 1,317 18.4 % Marketing, general and administrative 1,514 14.7 % 1,198 16.8 % Restructuring and asset impairment charges % 74 1.0 % Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles 3 % 2 % Operating income 3,448 33.5 % 647 9.1 % Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net (39 ) (0.4 )% (72 ) (1.0 )% Gains (losses) on other equity investments, net 8 0.1 % (41 ) (0.6 )% Interest and other, net 29 0.3 % 95 1.3 % Income before taxes 3,446 33.5 % 629 8.8 % Provision for taxes 1,004 9.8 % % Net income $ 2,442 23.7 % $ 629 8.8 % Diluted earnings per common share $ 0.43 $ 0.11 The following table sets forth information of geographic regions for the periods indicated: Q1 2010 Q1 2009 (Dollars In Millions) Revenue % of Total Revenue % of Total Asia-Pacific $ 5,888 57 % $ 3,647 51 % Americas 1,906 18 % 1,510 21 % Europe 1,404 14 % 1,273 18 % Japan 1,101 11 % 715 10 % Total $ 10,299 100 % $ 7,145 100 % Our net revenue for Q1 2010 increased 44% compared to Q1 2009. The increase was due to significantly higher microprocessor and chipset unit sales compared to Q1 2009. Revenue in the Asia, Japan, Americas, and Europe regions increased by 61%, 54%, 26%, and 10% respectively compared to Q1 2009. Our overall gross margin dollars for Q1 2010 increased $3.3 billion, or 102%, compared to Q1 2009. The increase was primarily due to significantly higher revenue and, to a lesser extent, factory underutilization charges recorded in Q1 2009. Our overall gross margin percentage increased to 63.4% in Q1 2010 from 45.3% in Q1 2009. The significant increase in the gross margin percentage was primarily attributable to the gross margin percentage increase in the PC Client Group operating segment and, to a lesser extent, gross margin percentage increases in the NAND Solutions Group and Data Center Group operating segments. We derived a substantial majority of our overall gross margin dollars in Q1 2010, and substantially all of our overall gross margin dollars in Q1 2009, from the sale of microprocessors in the PC Client Group and Data Center Group operating segments. See Business Outlook for a discussion of gross margin expectations. 33 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) PC Client Group The revenue and operating income for the PC Client Group (PCCG) operating segment for Q1 2010 and Q1 2009 were as follows: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 Microprocessor revenue $ 5,913 $ 4,249 Chipset, motherboard, and other revenue 1,761 1,112 Net revenue $ 7,674 $ 5,361 Operating income $ 3,143 $ 701 Net revenue for the PCCG operating segment increased by $2.3 billion, or 43%, in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009. Microprocessors and chipsets within PCCG include those designed for the notebook, netbook, and desktop computing market segments. The increase in microprocessor revenue was primarily due to significantly higher notebook unit sales. To a lesser extent, higher desktop and netbook microprocessor unit sales also contributed to the increase. The increase in chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was due to significantly higher chipset unit sales. Operating income increased by $2.4 billion in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009. The increase in operating income was primarily due to higher revenue. In addition, during Q1 2009, we recorded factory underutilization charges of approximately $620 million, primarily related to microprocessors and chipsets. To a lesser extent, lower platform (microprocessor and chipset) unit costs in Q1 2010 were partially offset by higher operating expenses. Data Center Group The revenue and operating income for the Data Center Group (DCG) operating segment for Q1 2010 and Q1 2009 were as follows: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 Microprocessor revenue $ 1,552 $ 1,012 Chipset, motherboard, and other revenue 319 252 Net revenue $ 1,871 $ 1,264 Operating income $ 835 $ 266 Net revenue for the DCG operating segment increased by $607 million, or 48%, in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due to higher microprocessor unit sales and average selling prices. The increase in chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was due to higher chipset unit sales and higher revenue from the sale of wired connectivity products, partially offset by lower chipset average selling prices. Operating income increased by $569 million in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009. The increase in operating income was due to higher revenue and, to a lesser extent, lower chipset unit costs. Other Intel Architecture Operating Segments The revenue and operating income for the other Intel architecture (Other IA) operating segments for Q1 2010 and Q1 2009 were as follows: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 Net revenue $ 375 $ 326 Operating loss $ (29 ) $ (76 ) Net revenue for the Other IA operating segments increased by $49 million, or 15%, in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher revenue within the Embedded and Communications Group (ECG) from higher microprocessor and chipset unit sales, partially offset by lower microprocessor average selling prices. Operating loss for the Other IA operating segments decreased by $47 million in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009. The decrease was primarily due to higher ECG revenue and lower ECG unit costs, partially offset by higher ECG operating expenses. 34 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating Expenses Operating expenses for Q1 2010 and Q1 2009 were as follows: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 Research and development $ 1,564 $ 1,317 Marketing, general and administrative $ 1,514 $ 1,198 Restructuring and asset impairment charges $ $ 74 Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles $ 3 $ 2 Research and Development. R&D spending increased by $247 million, or 19%, in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009 primarily due to higher process development costs and higher profit-dependent compensation. Marketing, General and Administrative . Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased $316 million, or 26%, in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009 primarily due to higher advertising expenses, including cooperative advertising expenses, higher profit-dependent compensation, and to a lesser extent, expenses related to our Wind River Software Group operating segment. R&D, combined with marketing, general and administrative expenses, were 30% of net revenue in Q1 2010 (35% of net revenue in Q1 2009). Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges. The following table summarizes restructuring and asset impairment charges by program for Q1 2010 and Q1 2009: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 2009 restructuring program $ $ 61 2006 efficiency program 13 Total restructuring and asset impairment charges $ $ 74 For further information, see Note 16: Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Gains (Losses) on Equity Method Investments, Net Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net were as follows: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 Equity method losses, net $ (35 ) $ (62 ) Impairment charges (4 ) (10 ) Total gains (losses) on equity method investments, net $ (39 ) $ (72 ) We recognized lower equity method losses and lower impairment charges in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009. Our net equity method losses were primarily related to Clearwire LLC ($29 million loss in Q1 2010 and $7 million loss in Q1 2009) and Numonyx B.V. ($13 million gain in Q1 2010 and $23 million loss in Q1 2009). Gains (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net Gains (losses) on other equity investments, net were as follows: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 Impairment charges $ (42 ) $ (69 ) Gains on sales, net 83 1 Other, net (33 ) 27 Total gains (losses) on other equity investments, net $ 8 $ (41 ) 35 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) We recognized higher gains on sales and lower impairment charges on our non-marketable equity investments in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009, partially offset by losses on equity derivatives in Q1 2010 compared to gains on other equity transactions in Q1 2009. Net gains on equity investments in Q1 2010 included a gain of $67 million on the sale of our investment in Micron. Other losses in Q1 2010 primarily relate to the change in fair value of Micron equity options, which are intended to economically hedge a portion of our equity price risk associated with the Micron shares we expect to receive upon sale of Numonyx. See Note 10: Non-Marketable Equity Investments in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Interest and Other, Net The components of interest and other, net were as follows: (In Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 Interest income $ 26 $ 72 Other, net 3 23 Total interest and other, net $ 29 $ 95 We recognized lower interest income in Q1 2010 compared to Q1 2009 as a result of lower interest rates, partially offset by higher average investment balances. The average interest rate earned during Q1 2010 decreased by approximately 1.3 percentage points compared to Q1 2009. In addition, we recognized $25 million of fair value gains on our trading assets in Q1 2009. Provision for Taxes Our provision for taxes and effective tax rate were as follows: (Dollars in Millions) Q1 2010 Q1 2009 Income before taxes $ 3,446 $ 629 Provision for taxes $ 1,004 $ Effective tax rate 29.1 % % Our effective income tax rate in Q1 2010 was 29.1% compared to zero in Q1 2009. The impact of discrete items significantly reduced our effective tax rate in Q1 2009, primarily due to the settlement of various federal and state tax matters related to prior years. In addition, our estimated annual effective tax rate in Q1 2009 was significantly reduced as a result of a high percentage of profits in lower tax jurisdictions. Business Outlook Our future results of operations and the topics of other forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-Q, including this MD&A, involve a number of risks and uncertaintiesin particular: changes in business and economic conditions; revenue and pricing; gross margin and costs; pending legal proceedings; our effective tax rate; marketing, general and administrative expenses; our goals and strategies; new product introductions; plans to cultivate new businesses; R&D expenses; divestitures or investments; net gains (losses) from equity investments; interest and other, net; capital spending; depreciation; and impairment of investments. In addition to the various important factors discussed above, a number of other important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. See the risks described in Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. 36 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Our expectations for the remainder of 2010 are provided below. The outlook does not include the gain expected from the sale of our investment in Numonyx. During the first quarter of 2010, we signed a definitive agreement with Micron and Numonyx under which Micron agreed to acquire Numonyx in an all-stock transaction. In exchange for our investment in Numonyx, we expect to receive approximately 67 million shares of Micron common stock, and issue a $72 million short-term payable. We have entered into equity options that economically hedge approximately 67% of the shares we expect to receive. The senior credit facility that is supported by Intels guarantee is expected to be repaid in full following the closing of this transaction. We expect that the transaction will close in the second quarter of 2010. Q2 2010 Revenue: $10.2 billion, plus or minus $400 million. Gross margin percentage: 64% plus or minus a couple percentage points. Depreciation: approximately $1.1 billion. Research and development plus marketing, general and administrative expenses: approximately $3.1 billion. Net gains (losses) from equity method investments, gains (losses) on other equity investments, and interest and other: approximately zero. Full Year 2010 Gross margin percentage: 64%, plus or minus a couple percentage points. Depreciation: approximately $4.4 billion, plus or minus $100 million. Research and development plus marketing, general and administrative expenses: $12.4 billion, plus or minus $100 million. Research and development spending: approximately $6.4 billion. Capital spending: $4.8 billion, plus or minus $100 million. Tax rate: approximately 31% for the second, third, and fourth quarters. The estimated effective tax rate is based on tax law in effect as of March 27, 2010 and expected income. Status of Business Outlook We expect that our corporate representatives will, from time to time, meet privately with investors, investment analysts, the media, and others, and may reiterate the forward-looking statements contained in the Business Outlook section and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including any such statements that are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q. At the same time, we will keep this Form 10-Q and our most current business outlook publicly available on our Investor Relations web site at www.intc.com . The public can continue to rely on the business outlook published on the web site as representing our current expectations on matters covered, unless we publish a notice stating otherwise. The statements in the Business Outlook section and other forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q are subject to revision during the course of the year in our quarterly earnings releases and SEC filings and at other times. From the close of business on May 28, 2010 until our quarterly earnings release is published, presently scheduled for July 13, 2010, we will observe a quiet period. During the quiet period, the Business Outlook section and other forward-looking statements first published in our Form 8-K filed on April 13, 2010, as reiterated or updated as applicable in this Form 10-Q, should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update. During the quiet period, our representatives will not comment on our business outlook or our financial results or expectations. The exact timing and duration of the routine quiet period, and any others that we utilize from time to time, may vary at our discretion. 37 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity and Capital Resources March 27, Dec. 26, (Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents, trading assets, and short-term investments $ 16,342 $ 13,920 Loans receivable and other long-term investments $ 4,931 $ 4,528 Short-term and long-term debt $ 2,382 $ 2,221 Debt as % of stockholders equity 5.6 % 5.3 % In summary, our cash flows were as follows: Three Months Ended March 27, March 28, (In Millions) 2010 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,079 $ 378 Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities (2,672 ) 409 Net cash used for financing activities (406 ) (601 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,001 $ 186 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. Cash from operations for the first quarter of 2010 was $4.1 billion, an increase of $3.7 billion compared to the first quarter of 2009, primarily due to higher operating income. Changes in assets and liabilities as of March 27, 2010 compared to December 26, 2009 included the following: Income taxes payable increased as our U.S. federal estimated income tax payment for the first quarter of 2010 is paid in the second quarter. Accrued Compensation and Benefits decreased due to payout of 2009 profit-dependant compensation. For the first quarter of 2010, our two largest customers accounted for 36% of net revenue (40% for the first quarter of 2009) with one of those customers accounting for 20% of our net revenue, and another customer accounting for 16% of our net revenue. These two largest customers accounted for 32% of net accounts receivable at March 27, 2010 (41% at December 26, 2009). Investing Activities The increase in cash used for investing activities in the first quarter of 2010, compared to the first quarter of 2009, was driven primarily by an increase in net purchases of available-for-sale investments and trading assets. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in capital expenditures due to the timing of the ramp of our latest silicon process technology. Financing Activities The decrease in cash used for financing activities in the first quarter of 2010, compared to the first quarter of 2009, was primarily due to an increase in short-term debt (drafts payable) in the first quarter of 2010 compared to a decrease in short-term debt (drafts payable) in the first quarter of 2009 and to a lesser extent proceeds from government grants. These increases were partially offset by higher dividend payments. 38 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Liquidity Cash generated by operations is used as our primary source of liquidity. As of March 27, 2010, cash and cash equivalents, trading assets, and short-term investments totaled $16.3 billion. In addition to the $16.3 billion, we have $4.9 billion in loans receivable and other long-term investments that we include when assessing our investment portfolio. The credit quality of our investment portfolio remains high, and we continue to be able to invest in high-credit-quality investments. Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments are with A/A2 or better rated issuers, and a substantial majority of the issuers are rated AA-/Aa3 or better. Our commercial paper program provides another potential source of liquidity. We have an ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up to $3.0 billion, including through the issuance of commercial paper. Maximum borrowings under our commercial paper program during the first quarter of 2010 were $50 million, although no commercial paper remained outstanding as of March 27, 2010. Our commercial paper was rated A-1+ by Standard & Poors and P-1 by Moodys as of March 27, 2010. We also have an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an unspecified amount of debt, equity, and other securities. We believe that we have the financial resources needed to meet business requirements for the next 12 months, including capital expenditures for worldwide manufacturing and assembly and test, working capital requirements, and potential dividends, common stock repurchases, and acquisitions or strategic investments. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. See Note 4: Fair Value in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Credit risk is factored into the valuation of financial instruments that we measure and record at fair value on a recurring basis. When fair value is determined using pricing models, such as a discounted cash flow model, the issuers credit risk and/or Intels credit risk is factored into the calculation of the fair value, as appropriate. Marketable Debt Instruments As of March 27, 2010, our assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis included $20.5 billion of marketable debt instruments. Of these instruments, $609 million was classified as Level 1, $19.1 billion as Level 2, and $745 million as Level 3. Our balance of marketable debt instruments that are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 1 was classified as such due to the usage of observable market prices for identical securities that are traded in active markets. Management judgment was required to determine the levels at which sufficient volume and frequency of transactions are met for a market to be considered active. Our assessment of an active market for our marketable debt instruments generally takes into consideration four weeks of activity prior to the valuation date of each individual instrument, including the number of days each individual instrument trades and the average weekly trading volume in relation to the total outstanding amount of the issued instrument. Of the $19.1 billion balance of marketable debt instruments measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2, approximately 55% of the balance was classified as Level 2 due to the usage of a discounted cash flow model, approximately 35% due to the usage of non-binding market consensus prices that are corroborated with observable market data, and approximately 10% due to the usage of observable market prices for identical securities that are traded in less active markets. 39 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Our marketable debt instruments that are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3 were classified as such due to the lack of observable market data to corroborate either the non-binding market consensus prices or the non-binding broker quotes. When observable market data is not available, we corroborate the non-binding market consensus prices and non-binding broker quotes using unobservable data, if available. All of our investments in asset-backed securities were classified as Level 3, and substantially all of them were valued using non-binding market consensus prices that we were not able to corroborate with observable market data due to the lack of transparency in the market for asset-backed securities. Equity Securities As of March 27, 2010, our portfolio of assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis included $926 million of marketable equity securities. Of these securities, $602 million was classified as Level 1 because the valuations were based on quoted prices for identical securities in active markets. Our assessment of an active market for our marketable equity securities generally takes into consideration activity during each week of the one-month period prior to the valuation date for individual securities, including the number of days individual equity securities trade and the average weekly trading volume in relation to the total outstanding shares of that security. The remaining marketable equity securities of $324 million were classified as Level 2 because their valuations were either based on quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets or adjusted for security-specific restrictions. 40