ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. MD&A is organized as follows: Overview . Discussion of our business and overall analysis of financial and other highlights affecting the company in order to provide context for the remainder of MD&A. Strategy . Our overall strategy. Critical Accounting Estimates . Accounting estimates that we believe are most important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results and forecasts. Results of Operations . An analysis of our financial results comparing the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011 to the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010. In the first quarter of 2011, we formed the Netbook and Tablet Group (NTG), which includes microprocessors and related chipsets designed for the netbook and tablet market segments. NTG results were previously included in the results of the PC Client Group and are now included in the other Intel architecture operating segments category. The analysis of our operating segment results of operations reflects this reorganization and prior-period amounts have been adjusted retrospectively. Business Outlook . Our expectations for selected financial items for the fourth quarter of 2011 and the 2011 full year. Liquidity and Capital Resources . An analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and discussion of our financial condition and potential sources of liquidity. Fair Value of Financial Instruments . Discussion of the methodologies used in the valuation of our financial instruments. The various sections of this MD&A contain a number of forward-looking statements. Words such as expects, goals, plans, believes, continues, may, will, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this filing and particularly in the Business Outlook section and in Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. Our actual results may differ materially, and these forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business combinations that had not been completed as of November 4, 2011. Overview Our results of operations were as follows: (Dollars in Millions) Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q3 2010 Net revenue $ 14,233 $ 13,032 $ 11,102 Gross margin $ 9,018 $ 7,902 $ 7,321 Gross margin percentage 63.4 % 60.6 % 65.9 % Operating income $ 4,785 $ 3,935 $ 4,136 Net income $ 3,468 $ 2,954 $ 2,955 The third quarter of 2011 was a record quarter for revenue, gross margin dollars, operating income, net income, and earnings per share, as increased demand from emerging markets and the enterprise market segment, partially offset by slower growth in the mature market consumer segment were similar to the trends exhibited in the first half of 2011. Our third quarter revenue of $14.2 billion increased 9% from the second quarter and 28% from the third quarter of 2010. Increased demand for our 2nd generation Intel Core TM processor products drove a significant increase in notebook microprocessor unit sales from the second quarter which contributed to record microprocessor unit sales in the third quarter. Platform (microprocessor and chipset) average selling prices were flat from the second quarter. We expect our revenue in the fourth quarter to be below seasonal trends based on macroeconomic concerns about mature market consumer growth, particularly in Europe, which historically has been strong during the fourth quarter. In addition, during the fourth quarter, we expect our customers to tightly manage the supply chain and we expect a reduction in Intel Mobile Communications revenue on customer transitions. Our gross margin percentage for the third quarter of 2011 was up 2.8 percentage points from the second quarter on seasonally higher platform volume, lower platform unit costs as we continue to ramp our 32nm factories, lower start-up costs as we started volume production using our 22nm process technology, and lower charges related to the chipset design issue (see Note 20: Chipset Design Issue in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q). We expect our gross margin percentage to increase in the fourth quarter on higher platform volume, lower platform unit costs, and lower start-up costs. This fourth quarter gross margin percentage expectation assumes a late quarter qualification for sale of our 22nm process technology microprocessors (code-named Ivy Bridge). 34 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Our strong financial performance during the first nine months of 2011 has allowed us to make significant investments in our business as well as increase the return of cash to our stockholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. The cash generation of our business remained strong in the third quarter of 2011 with $6.3 billion of cash from operations, and we ended the quarter with an investment portfolio of $15.2 billion, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and marketable debt instruments included in trading assets. During the third quarter, we issued $5.0 billion of notes primarily to repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our common stock repurchase program; repurchased $4.0 billion of common stock through our common stock repurchase program; purchased $2.7 billion in capital assets; and returned $1.1 billion to stockholders through dividends. In September, the Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.21 per common share for the fourth quarter of 2011 and increased the repurchase authorization limit of our common stock repurchase program by $10 billion. We continue to deliver improvements in our product offerings through our tick-tock technology development cadence as we began volume production of Ivy Bridge during the third quarter of 2011 in advance of our anticipated launch in early 2012. Ivy Bridge introduces the first three-dimensional transistor design called Tri-Gate, which is expected to improve performance and energy efficiency, as well as increase transistor density, compared to the existing two-dimensional transistor structure. We believe that we are beginning to realize returns on the investments we have made to expand our capabilities and create long-term opportunities across the computing continuum. We have shipped certain versions of our 2nd generation Intel Core TM server processor-based platform (code-named Romley) and expect significant demand upon our launch of all versions of the platform in the spring of 2012 as customers look for cost savings and energy-efficient performance in the Internet data center and cloud computing environments. We announced our collaboration with Google Inc. to enable and optimize future releases of the Android platform for Intel Atom TM processors which we expect to accelerate the time-to-market of Intel Architecture-based mobile devices using the Android platform. In addition, as we begin to see the first generation of PCs using Ultrabook TM system designs in the marketplace, we believe there is high industry and consumer interest in these thin and light form factors with instant-on capability, enhanced security, and excellent battery life. Strategy Our goal is to be the preeminent computing solutions company that powers the worldwide digital economy. We believe that the proliferation of the Internet and cloud computing has driven fundamental changes in the computing industry. We are transforming from a company with a primary focus on the design and manufacture of semiconductor chips for PCs and servers to a computing company that delivers complete solutions in the form of hardware and software platforms and supporting services. The number and variety of devices connected to the Internet is growing, and computing is becoming an increasingly engaging and personal experience. End users value consistency across devices that connect seamlessly and effortlessly to the Internet and to each other. We will help to enable this experience by innovating around three pillars of computing: energy-efficient performance, connectivity, and security. Energy-Efficient Performance. We are focusing on improved energy-efficient performance for computing and communications systems and devices. Improved energy-efficient performance involves balancing higher performance with lower power consumption. Connectivity. We are positioning our business to take advantage of the growth in devices that compute and connect to the Internet. In the first quarter of 2011, we acquired the Wireless Solutions (WLS) business of Infineon Technologies AG. This acquisition enables us to offer a portfolio of products that covers a broad range of wireless connectivity options by combining the Intel WiFi technology with WLS 2G and 3G technologies, and creates a combined path to accelerate industry adoption of 4G LTE. Security. Our goal is to enhance security features through a combination of hardware and software solutions. This may include identity protection and fraud deterrence; detection and prevention of malware; securing data and assets; as well as system recovery and enhanced security patching. In the first quarter of 2011, we acquired McAfee, Inc. We believe this acquisition accelerates and enhances our hardware and software security solutions, improving the overall security of our platforms. To succeed in the changing computing environment, we have the following key objectives: Strive to ensure that Intel technology remains the best choice for the PC as well as cloud computing and the data center. Our Ultrabook TM system designs will enable a new user experience by accelerating a new class of mobile computers that use low power processors. These computers will combine the performance and capabilities of todays laptops and tablets in a thin and light form factor that is highly responsive, secure, and seamlessly connects to the Internet and other enabled devices. Expand platforms into adjacent market segments to bring compelling new solutions to the smartphone, the tablet, the car, and the embedded world. Enable devices that connect to the Internet and to each other to create a continuum of personal computing. This continuum would give consumers a set of secure, consistent, engaging and personalized computing experiences. Positively impact the world through our actions and the application of our energy-efficient technology. 35 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) We will use our core assets to meet these objectives. Our core assets include our silicon and process technology, our architecture and platforms, our global presence, our strong relationships across the industry, and our brand recognition. We believe that applying these core assets to our key focus areas provides us with the scale, capacity, and global reach to establish new technologies and respond to customers needs quickly. Some of our core assets and key focus areas are: Silicon and Manufacturing Technology Leadership. We have long been a leader in silicon process technology and manufacturing, and we aim to continue our lead through investment and innovation in this critical area. We drive a regular two-year upgrade cycleintroducing a new microarchitecture approximately every two years and ramping the next generation of silicon process technology in the intervening years. We refer to this as our tick-tock technology development cadence. As we continue to drive Moores Law over the next several years, we believe that the value of this leadership will increase. We have accelerated the Intel Atom TM processor-based system-on-chip roadmap for netbooks, smartphones, tablets, and other devices, from 32nm through 22nm to 14nm within three successive years. We expect that this acceleration will result in a significant reduction in transistor leakage, lower active power, and an increase of transistor density to enable more powerful smartphones, tablets, and netbooks with more features and longer battery life. Additionally, we aim to have the best process technology, and unlike most semiconductor companies, we primarily manufacture our products in our own facilities. This allows us to optimize performance, reduce our time to market, and scale new products more rapidly. Architecture and Platforms. We are now developing a wide range of solutions for devices that span the computing continuum, from PCs, Ultrabook systems, tablets, and smartphones to in-vehicle infotainment systems and beyond. Users want computing experiences that are consistent and devices that are interoperable. Users and developers value consistency of architecture, which provides a common framework that allows for reduced time to market, with the ability to leverage technologies across multiple form factors. We believe that we can meet the needs of both users and developers by offering Intel architecture-based computing solutions across the computing continuum. We continue to invest in improving Intel architecture so that we can deliver increased value to our customers in existing market segments and also expand the capabilities of the architecture to meet end-user and customer needs in adjacent market segments. Increasingly, we are delivering our architecture in the form of platforms. Platforms include not only the microprocessor, but other critical hardware and software ingredients that are necessary to create computing solutions. We are expanding our platform capabilities with connectivity solutions, new types of user interfaces, new features and capabilities, and complementary software. Software. We enable and advance the computing ecosystem by providing development tools and support to help software developers create software applications and operating systems that take advantage of our platforms. We seek to expedite growth in various market segments, such as the embedded market segment, through our software offerings. Additionally, we have collaborated with other companies to develop software platforms optimized for our Intel Atom TM processors and that support multiple hardware architectures as well as multiple operating systems. We also deliver proactive and proven solutions and services that help secure systems and networks around the world. Customer Orientation. Our strategy focuses on developing our next generation of products based on the needs and expectations of our customers. In turn, our products help enable the design and development of new form factors and usage models for businesses and consumers. We offer platforms that incorporate various components designed and configured to work together to provide an optimized solution compared to components that are used separately. Additionally, we promote industry standards that we believe will yield innovation and improved technologies for users. Strategic Investments. We make investments in companies around the world that we believe will generate financial returns, further our strategic objectives, and support our key business initiatives. Our investments, including those made through our Intel Capital program, generally focus on investing in companies and initiatives to stimulate growth in the digital economy, create new business opportunities for Intel, and expand global markets for our products. Stewardship. We are committed to developing energy-efficient technology solutions that can be used to address major global problems while reducing our environmental impact. We are also committed to helping transform education globally through our technology, program, and policy leadership, as well as funding through the Intel Foundation. In addition, we strive to cultivate a work environment where engaged, energized employees can thrive in their jobs and in their communities. Our continued investment in developing our assets and execution on key focus areas will strengthen our competitive position as we enter and expand into new market segments. We believe that these new market segments will result in demand that is incremental to that of microprocessors designed for notebook and desktop computers. We also believe that increased Internet traffic and use of cloud computing create a need for greater server infrastructure, including server products optimized for energy-efficient performance and virtualization. 36 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Critical Accounting Estimates The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our consolidated condensed financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Our most critical accounting estimates include: the valuation of non-marketable equity investments and the determination of other-than-temporary impairments, which impact gains (losses) on equity method investments, net, or gains (losses) on other equity investments, net when we record impairments; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment; goodwill; and identified intangibles), which impacts gross margin or operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation or amortization; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of uncertain tax positions), which impact our provision for taxes; the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin; and the recognition and measurement of loss contingencies, which impact gross margin or operating expenses when we recognize a loss contingency, revise the estimate for a loss contingency, or record an asset impairment. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. Non-Marketable Equity Investments We regularly invest in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, which range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity investment portfolio, excluding equity derivatives, totaled $2.8 billion as of October 1, 2011 ($2.6 billion as of December 25, 2010). Approximately half of this balance as of October 1, 2011 was concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment. Our flash memory market segment investments include our investment in IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT) and IM Flash Singapore, LLP (IMFS) of $1.4 billion ($1.5 billion as of December 25, 2010). For further information, see Note 11: Equity Method Investments in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Our non-marketable equity investments are recorded using the cost method or the equity method of accounting, depending on the facts and circumstances of each investment. Our non-marketable equity investments are classified within other long-term assets on the consolidated condensed balance sheets. Non-marketable equity investments are inherently risky, and their success is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, the ability of the investee companies to raise additional funds in financial markets that can be volatile, and other key business factors. The companies could fail or not be able to raise additional funds when needed, or they may receive lower valuations with less favorable investment terms than previous financings. These events could cause our investments to become impaired. In addition, financial market volatility could negatively affect our ability to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. For further information about our investment portfolio risks, see Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. We determine the fair value of our non-marketable equity investments quarterly for disclosure purposes; however, the investments are recorded at fair value only if an impairment charge is recognized. We determine the fair value of our non-marketable equity investments using the market and income approaches. The market approach includes the use of financial metrics and ratios of comparable public companies, such as projected revenues, earnings, and comparable performance multiples. The selection of comparable companies requires management judgment and is based on a number of factors, including comparable companies sizes, growth rates, industries, development stages, and other relevant factors. The income approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow model, which may include one or multiple discounted cash flow scenarios and requires the following significant estimates for the investee: revenue; expenses, capital spending, and other costs; and discount rates based on the risk profile of comparable companies. Estimates of revenue, expenses, capital spending, and other costs are developed using historical data and available market data. The valuation of our non-marketable equity investments also takes into account variables such as conditions reflected in the capital markets, recent financing activities by the investees, the investees capital structures, the terms of the investees issued interests, and the lack of marketability of the investments. 37 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) For non-marketable equity investments, the measurement of fair value requires significant judgment and includes quantitative and qualitative analysis of identified events or circumstances that impact the fair value of the investment, such as: the investees revenue and earnings trends relative to pre-defined milestones and overall business prospects; the technological feasibility of the investees products and technologies; the general market conditions in the investees industry or geographic area, including adverse regulatory or economic changes; factors related to the investees ability to remain in business, such as the investees liquidity, debt ratios, and the rate at which the investee is using its cash; and the investees receipt of additional funding at a lower valuation. If the fair value of an investment is below our carrying value, we determine if the investment is other than temporarily impaired based on our quantitative and qualitative analysis, which includes assessing the severity and duration of the impairment and the likelihood of recovery before disposal. If the investment is considered to be other than temporarily impaired, we write down the investment to its fair value. Impairments of non-marketable equity investments were $12 million in the third quarter of 2011 ($34 million in the first nine months of 2011). Over the past 12 quarters, including the third quarter of 2011, impairments of non-marketable equity investments ranged from $8 million to $896 million per quarter. This range included impairments of $896 million during the fourth quarter of 2008, primarily related to a $762 million impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire Communications, LLC. IMFT/IMFS IMFT and IMFS are variable interest entities that are designed to manufacture and sell NAND products to Intel and Micron Technology, Inc. at manufacturing cost. We determine the fair value of our investment in IMFT/IMFS using the income approach based on a weighted average of multiple discounted cash flow scenarios of our NAND Solutions Group business, which requires the use of unobservable inputs. Unobservable inputs that require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments are the estimates for projected revenue and discount rate. Changes in management estimates for these unobservable inputs have the most significant effect on the fair value determination. We have not had an other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in IMFT/IMFS. Long-Lived Assets Property, Plant and Equipment We assess property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or the asset grouping may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under-performance of a business or product line in relation to expectations, significant negative industry or economic trends, and significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets. We measure the recoverability of assets that will continue to be used in our operations by comparing the carrying value of the asset grouping to our estimate of the related total future undiscounted net cash flows. If an asset groupings carrying value is not recoverable through the related undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is measured by comparing the difference between the asset groupings carrying value and its fair value. Property, plant and equipment is considered a non-financial asset and is recorded at fair value only if an impairment charge is recognized. Impairments are determined for groups of assets related to the lowest level of identifiable independent cash flows. Due to our asset usage model and the interchangeable nature of our semiconductor manufacturing capacity, we must make subjective judgments in determining the independent cash flows that can be related to specific asset groupings. In addition, as we make manufacturing process conversions and other factory planning decisions, we must make subjective judgments regarding the remaining useful lives of assets, primarily process-specific semiconductor manufacturing tools and building improvements. When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter than we had originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of depreciation over the assets new, shorter useful lives. Over the past 12 quarters, including the third quarter of 2011, impairments and accelerated depreciation of long-lived assets ranged from $10 million to $75 million per quarter. Goodwill Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price paid for an acquisition exceeds the estimated fair value of the net identified tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on relative fair value of the future benefit of the purchased operations to our existing business units as well as the acquired business unit. 38 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) We perform an annual review in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, to determine if the carrying value of the recorded goodwill is impaired. Our impairment review process compares the fair value of the reporting unit in which goodwill resides to its carrying value. Reporting units may be operating segments as a whole or an operation one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. Our reporting units are consistent with the operating segments identified in Note 27: Operating Segment Information in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Our impairment review process uses the income method to estimate the reporting units fair value and is based on a discounted future cash flow approach that uses the following reporting unit estimates: revenue, based on assumed market segment growth rates and Intels assumed market segment share; estimated costs; and appropriate discount rates based on the reporting units weighted average cost of capital as determined by considering the observable weighted average cost of capital of comparable companies. Our estimates of market segment growth, our market segment share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and a variety of external sources, and are developed as part of our routine long-range planning process. The same estimates are also used in planning for our long-term manufacturing and assembly and test capacity needs as part of our capital budgeting process and for both long-term and short-term business planning and forecasting. We test the reasonableness of the inputs and outcomes of our discounted cash flow analysis against available comparable market data. In determining the carrying value of the reporting unit, we must include an allocation of our manufacturing and assembly and test assets because of the interchangeable nature of our manufacturing and assembly and test capacity. This allocation is based on each reporting units relative percentage utilization of our manufacturing and assembly and test assets. During the fourth quarter of each of the prior two fiscal years, we completed our annual impairment reviews and concluded that goodwill was not impaired in either of these years. Identified Intangibles We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased finite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of finite lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment quarterly and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If it is determined that an individual asset is impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. The assumptions and estimates used to determine future values and remaining useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by various factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our forecasts for specific product lines. Based on our impairment reviews of our intangible assets, we have not recognized any impairment charges in 2011 or 2010. Income Taxes We must make estimates and judgments in determining the provision for taxes for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities that arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as the interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes in these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. We believe that we will ultimately recover the deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated condensed balance sheets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, our tax provision would increase in the period in which we determined that the recovery was not likely. Recovery of a portion of our deferred tax assets is impacted by managements plans with respect to holding or disposing of certain investments; therefore, changes in managements plans with respect to holding or disposing of investments could affect our future provision for taxes. 39 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. If we determine that a tax position will more likely than not be sustained on audit, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors such as changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, new audit activity, and effectively settled issues. Determining whether an uncertain tax position is effectively settled requires judgment. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. Inventory The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The estimate of future demand is compared to work-in-process and finished goods inventory levels to determine the amount, if any, of obsolete or excess inventory. As of October 1, 2011, we had total work-in-process inventory of $1.5 billion and total finished goods inventory of $1.9 billion. The demand forecast is included in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans to enable consistency between inventory valuation and build decisions. Product-specific facts and circumstances reviewed in the inventory valuation process include a review of the customer base, the stage of the product life cycle of our products, consumer confidence, and customer acceptance of our products, as well as an assessment of the selling price in relation to the product cost. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write off inventory, which would negatively impact our gross margin. In order to determine what costs can be included in the valuation of inventory, we must determine normal capacity at our manufacturing and assembly and test facilities, based on historical loadings compared to total available capacity. If the factory loadings are below the established normal capacity level, a portion of our manufacturing overhead costs would not be included in the cost of inventory, and therefore would be recognized as cost of sales in that period, which would negatively impact our gross margin. We refer to these costs as excess capacity charges. Over the past 12 quarters, excess capacity charges ranged from zero to $680 million per quarter. Loss Contingencies We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings and asserted and potential claims, accruals related to repair or replacement of parts in connection with product errata, as well as product warranties and potential asset impairments (loss contingencies) that arise in the ordinary course of business. An estimated loss from such contingencies is recognized as a charge to income if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on the best information available at that time. A loss contingency is disclosed when there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred. The outcomes of legal and administrative proceedings and claims, and the estimation of product warranties and asset impairments, are subject to significant uncertainty. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. With respect to estimating the losses associated with repairing and replacing parts in connection with product errata, we make judgments with respect to customer return rates, costs to repair or replace parts, and where the product is in our customers manufacturing process. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter, and we may revise our estimates as additional information becomes available. These revisions could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Accounting Changes and Recent Accounting Standards For a description of accounting changes see Note 3: Accounting Changes and Note 4: Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. 40 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Results of Operations Third Quarter of 2011 Compared to Third Quarter of 2010 The following table sets forth certain consolidated condensed statements of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Q3 2011 Q3 2010 (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Dollars % of Net Revenue Dollars % of Net Revenue Net revenue $ 14,233 100.0 % $ 11,102 100.0 % Cost of sales 5,215 36.6 % 3,781 34.1 % Gross margin 9,018 63.4 % 7,321 65.9 % Research and development 2,140 15.0 % 1,675 15.1 % Marketing, general and administrative 2,017 14.3 % 1,506 13.5 % Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles 76 0.5 % 4 % Operating income 4,785 33.6 % 4,136 37.3 % Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net (40 ) (0.3 )% 126 1.1 % Gains (losses) on other equity investments, net 132 1.0 % (49 ) (0.4 )% Interest and other, net 15 0.1 % 38 0.3 % Income before taxes 4,892 34.4 % 4,251 38.3 % Provision for taxes 1,424 10.0 % 1,296 11.7 % Net income $ 3,468 24.4 % $ 2,955 26.6 % Diluted earnings per common share $ 0.65 $ 0.52 The following table sets forth information of geographic regions for the periods indicated: Q3 2011 Q3 2010 (Dollars in Millions) Revenue % of Total Revenue % of Total Asia-Pacific $ 8,050 57 % $ 6,404 58 % Americas 3,017 21 % 2,240 20 % Europe 1,814 13 % 1,326 12 % Japan 1,352 9 % 1,132 10 % Total $ 14,233 100 % $ 11,102 100 % Our net revenue for Q3 2011 increased $3.1 billion, or 28%, compared to Q3 2010. The increase was due to higher platform (microprocessor and chipset) average selling prices and $1.1 billion in revenue from Intel Mobile Communications (formerly the WLS business of Infineon) and McAfee. We acquired the WLS business of Infineon and McAfee in Q1 2011. Additionally, slightly higher microprocessor unit sales and significantly higher chipset unit sales also contributed to the increase. Revenue in the Europe, Americas, Asia-Pacific, and Japan regions increased by 37%, 35%, 26%, and 19%, respectively, compared to Q3 2010. Our overall gross margin dollars for Q3 2011 increased $1.7 billion, or 23%, compared to Q3 2010. The increase was primarily due to significantly higher revenue, partially offset by approximately $320 million of higher start-up costs and higher platform unit costs compared to Q3 2010. The amortization of acquisition-related intangibles resulted in a $135 million reduction to our overall gross margin dollars in Q3 2011, compared to $16 million in Q3 2010, primarily due to the acquisitions of McAfee and the WLS business of Infineon. Our overall gross margin percentage decreased to 63.4% in Q3 2011 from 65.9% in Q3 2010. The decrease in gross margin percentage was primarily attributable to the gross margin percentage decrease in the other Intel architecture operating segments and the PC Client Group operating segment. We derived a majority of our overall gross margin dollars in Q3 2011 and a substantial majority of our overall gross margin dollars in Q3 2010 from the sale of microprocessors in the PC Client Group and Data Center Group operating segments. See Business Outlook for a discussion of gross margin expectations. 41 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) PC Client Group The revenue and operating income for the PC Client Group (PCCG) operating segment for Q3 2011 and Q3 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Microprocessor revenue $ 7,521 $ 6,072 Chipset, motherboard, and other revenue 1,896 1,666 Net revenue $ 9,417 $ 7,738 Operating income $ 4,014 $ 3,345 Net revenue for the PCCG operating segment increased by $1.7 billion, or 22%, in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. Microprocessors and chipsets within PCCG include those designed for the notebook and desktop computing market segments. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due to significantly higher notebook average selling prices and notebook unit sales. To a lesser extent, higher desktop average selling prices and desktop unit sales also contributed to the increase. The increase in chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was due to significantly higher chipset unit sales. Operating income increased by $669 million in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. The increase in operating income was due to higher revenue. The increase was partially offset by approximately $300 million of higher start-up costs. Additionally, operating expenses and platform unit costs were higher in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. Data Center Group The revenue and operating income for the Data Center Group (DCG) operating segment for Q3 2011 and Q3 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Microprocessor revenue $ 2,118 $ 1,847 Chipset, motherboard, and other revenue 394 339 Net revenue $ 2,512 $ 2,186 Operating income $ 1,221 $ 1,068 Net revenue for the DCG operating segment increased by $326 million, or 15%, in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due to significantly higher microprocessor unit sales and, to a lesser extent, slightly higher microprocessor average selling prices. The increase in chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was due to significantly higher revenue from the sale of wired connectivity products. Operating income increased by $153 million in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. The increase in operating income was primarily due to higher revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses compared to Q3 2010. Other Intel Architecture Operating Segments The revenue and operating income for the other Intel architecture (Other IA) operating segments, including Intel Mobile Communications (IMC), the Intelligent Systems Group (ISG), the Netbook and Tablet Group (NTG), the Digital Home Group (DHG), and the Ultra-Mobility Group (UMG), for Q3 2011 and Q3 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Net revenue $ 1,368 $ 812 Operating income (loss) $ (140 ) $ 92 Net revenue for the Other IA operating segments increased by $556 million, or 68%, in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. The increase was primarily due to IMC revenue, an operating segment formed from the acquisition of the WLS business of Infineon. The increase was partially offset by significantly lower NTG microprocessor and chipset unit sales and significantly lower ISG microprocessor average selling prices. Operating results for the Other IA operating segments decreased by $232 million, from an operating income of $92 million in Q3 2010 to an operating loss of $140 million in Q3 2011. The decline in operating results was primarily due to higher operating expenses within each of the Other IA operating segments, partially offset by higher revenue. 42 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Software and Services Operating Segments The revenue and operating income for the Software and Services operating segments, including McAfee, Wind River Software Group, and Software and Services Group, for Q3 2011 and Q3 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Net revenue $ 541 $ 66 Operating income/(loss) $ 18 $ (36 ) Net revenue for the Software and Services operating segments increased by $475 million in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. The increase was primarily due to revenue from the acquisition of McAfee. Due to the revaluation of McAfees historic deferred revenue to fair value, we excluded $59 million of revenue that would have been reported in Q3 2011 if McAfees deferred revenue had not been written down due to the acquisition. Operating results for the Software and Services operating segments increased by $54 million, from an operating loss of $36 million in Q3 2010 to an operating income of $18 million in Q3 2011. The increase in operating results was primarily due to higher revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses from the acquisition of McAfee. Due to the revaluation of McAfees historic deferred revenue to fair value, we excluded revenue and associated costs that would have created $55 million of operating income in Q3 2011. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for Q3 2011 and Q3 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Research and development $ 2,140 $ 1,675 Marketing, general and administrative $ 2,017 $ 1,506 Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles $ 76 $ 4 Research and Development. R&D spending increased by $465 million, or 28%, in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. This increase was primarily due to the expenses of McAfee and Intel Mobile Communications, and higher compensation expenses based on an increase in employees. Marketing, General and Administrative . Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased by $511 million, or 34%, in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. This increase was primarily due to the expenses of McAfee and Intel Mobile Communications, higher advertising expenses (including cooperative advertising expenses), and, to a lesser extent, higher compensation expenses based on an increase in employees. R&D, combined with marketing, general and administrative expenses, were 29% of net revenue in Q3 2011 and Q3 2010. Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles. The increase of $72 million was primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to the acquisitions of McAfee and the WLS business of Infineon, both completed in the first quarter of 2011. For further information, see Note 15: Acquisitions and Note 18: Identified Intangible Assets in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Gains (Losses) on Equity Method Investments, Net Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net were as follows: (In Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Equity method losses, net $ (63 ) $ (28 ) Other, net 23 154 Total gains (losses) on equity method investments, net $ (40 ) $ 126 We recognized lower gains on sales and higher equity method losses in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. During Q3 2010, we recognized a gain of $33 million on the initial public offering of SMART Technologies, Inc., included within Equity method losses, net, and a gain of $148 million on the subsequent sale of our shares in the secondary offering, included in Other, net, resulting in a total gain of $181 million. 43 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Equity method losses, net also included losses from Clearwire LLC ($50 million loss in Q3 2011 and $34 million loss in Q3 2010). The equity method losses recognized in the third quarter of 2011 reduced our carrying value in Clearwire LLC to zero. We do not expect to recognize additional equity method losses for Clearwire LLC in the future. Gains (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net Gains (losses) on other equity investments, net were as follows: (In Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Impairment charges $ (79 ) $ (32 ) Gains on sales, net 189 22 Other, net 22 (39 ) Total gains (losses) on other equity investments, net $ 132 $ (49 ) We recognized higher gains on sales and gains on other equity transactions, partially offset by higher impairment charges in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010. Gains on sales of equity investments in Q3 2011 included a gain of $150 million on the sale of shares in VMware Inc. The loss in Other, net for Q3 2010 was primarily related to fair value losses on the equity interest in Micron we received from the sale of our ownership interest in Numonyx B.V., partially offset by equity options established prior to the Numonyx sale that economically hedged a portion of our Micron equity interest. During Q2 2011, we sold our remaining ownership interest in Micron and the related equity options matured. Interest and Other, Net The components of interest and other, net were as follows: (In Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Interest income $ 22 $ 35 Other, net (7 ) 3 Total interest and other, net $ 15 $ 38 We recognized lower interest income in Q3 2011 compared to Q3 2010 as a result of lower average investment balances. Provision for Taxes Our provision for taxes and effective tax rate were as follows: (Dollars in Millions) Q3 2011 Q3 2010 Income before taxes $ 4,892 $ 4,251 Provision for taxes $ 1,424 $ 1,296 Effective tax rate 29.1 % 30.5 % The effective tax rate for Q3 2011 was positively impacted by the U.S. research and development tax credit that was reinstated in December 2010. 44 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Results of Operations First Nine Months of 2011 Compared to First Nine Months of 2010 The following table sets forth certain consolidated condensed statements of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: YTD 2011 YTD 2010 (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Dollars % of Net Revenue Dollars % of Net Revenue Net revenue $ 40,112 100.0 % $ 32,166 100.0 % Cost of sales 15,307 38.2 % 11,081 34.4 % Gross margin 24,805 61.8 % 21,085 65.6 % Research and development 6,042 15.1 % 4,905 15.3 % Marketing, general and administrative 5,697 14.1 % 4,604 14.3 % Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles 188 0.5 % 11 % Operating income 12,878 32.1 % 11,565 36.0 % Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net (148 ) (0.4 )% 163 0.5 % Gains (losses) on other equity investments, net 243 0.6 % 76 0.2 % Interest and other, net 221 0.6 % 78 0.2 % Income before taxes 13,194 32.9 % 11,882 36.9 % Provision for taxes 3,612 9.0 % 3,598 11.1 % Net income $ 9,582 23.9 % $ 8,284 25.8 % Diluted earnings per common share $ 1.75 $ 1.45 The following table sets forth information of geographic regions for the periods indicated: $22,7030 $22,7030 $22,7030 $22,7030 YTD 2011 YTD 2010 (Dollars in Millions) Revenue % of Total Revenue % of Total Asia-Pacific $ 22,703 57 % $ 18,458 57 % Americas 8,641 22 % 6,319 20 % Europe 5,023 12 % 4,024 13 % Japan 3,745 9 % 3,365 10 % Total $ 40,112 100 % $ 32,166 100 % Our net revenue for the first nine months of 2011, which included 40 weeks, increased $7.9 billion, or 25%, compared to the first nine months of 2010, which included 39 weeks. The increase was primarily due to higher platform (microprocessor and chipset) average selling prices. To a lesser extent, slightly higher microprocessor unit sales and higher chipset unit sales also contributed to the increase. Revenue from Intel Mobile Communications (formerly the WLS business of Infineon) and McAfee contributed $2.7 billion to the first nine months of 2011 revenue. Revenue in the Americas, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Japan regions increased by 37%, 25%, 23%, and 11%, respectively, compared to the first nine months of 2010. Our overall gross margin dollars increased by $3.7 billion, or 18%, compared to the first nine months of 2010. The increase was primarily due to significantly higher revenue. The increase was partially offset by approximately $900 million of higher start-up costs compared to the first nine months of 2010. In addition, a charge of $422 million recorded in the first half of 2011 to repair and replace materials and systems impacted by a design issue related to our Intel 6 Series Express Chipset family, also offset the increase to our overall gross margin dollars. For further information, see Note 20: Chipset Design Issue in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. To a lesser extent, platform unit costs were higher compared to the first nine months of 2010. The amortization of acquisition-related intangibles resulted in a $345 million reduction to our overall gross margin dollars in the first nine months of 2011, compared to $48 million in the first nine months of 2010, primarily due to the acquisitions of McAfee and the WLS business of Infineon. Our overall gross margin percentage decreased to 61.8% in the first nine months of 2011 from 65.6% in the first nine months of 2010. The decrease in gross margin percentage was primarily attributable to the gross margin percentage decrease in the PC Client Group operating segment and, to a lesser extent, the gross margin percentage decrease in the other Intel architecture operating segments. We derived a majority of our overall gross margin dollars in the first nine months of 2011 and a substantial majority of our overall gross margin dollars in the first nine months of 2010 from the sale of microprocessors in the PC Client Group and Data Center Group operating segments. See Business Outlook for a discussion of gross margin expectations. 45 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) PC Client Group The revenue and operating income for the PC Client Group (PCCG) operating segment for the first nine months of 2011 and the first nine months of 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Microprocessor revenue $ 20,877 $ 17,666 Chipset, motherboard, and other revenue 5,482 4,948 Net revenue $ 26,359 $ 22,614 Operating income $ 10,841 $ 9,765 Net revenue for the PCCG operating segment increased by $3.7 billion, or 17%, in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. Microprocessors and chipsets within PCCG include those designed for the notebook and desktop computing market segments. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due to significantly higher notebook average selling prices. To a lesser extent, higher notebook unit sales, higher desktop average selling prices, and slightly higher desktop unit sales also contributed to the increase. The increase in chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was due to significantly higher chipset unit sales. Operating income increased by $1.1 billion in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. The increase in operating income was primarily due to significantly higher revenue. The increase was partially offset by approximately $880 million of higher start-up costs. In addition, a charge of $422 million recorded in the first half of 2011 to repair and replace materials and systems impacted by a design issue related to our Intel 6 Series Express Chipset family also contributed to the offset. To a lesser extent, platform unit costs, operating expenses, and inventory write-offs were higher compared to the first nine months of 2010, which also contributed to the offset. Data Center Group The revenue and operating income for the Data Center Group (DCG) operating segment for the first nine months of 2011 and the first nine months of 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Microprocessor revenue $ 6,233 $ 5,196 Chipset, motherboard, and other revenue 1,179 975 Net revenue $ 7,412 $ 6,171 Operating income $ 3,647 $ 2,962 Net revenue for the DCG operating segment increased by $1.2 billion, or 20%, in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due to significantly higher microprocessor unit sales and, to a lesser extent, slightly higher microprocessor average selling prices. The increase in chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was due to significantly higher revenue from the sale of wired connectivity products and slightly higher chipset unit sales. Operating income increased by $685 million in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. The increase in operating income was primarily due to significantly higher revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses compared to the first nine months of 2010. Other Intel Architecture Operating Segments The revenue and operating income for the other Intel architecture (Other IA) operating segments, including Intel Mobile Communications (IMC), the Intelligent Systems Group (ISG), the Netbook and Tablet Group (NTG), the Digital Home Group (DHG), and the Ultra-Mobility Group (UMG), for the first nine months of 2011 and the first nine months of 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Net revenue $ 3,906 $ 2,241 Operating income (loss) $ (209 ) $ 194 Net revenue for the Other IA operating segments increased by $1.7 billion, or 74%, in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. The increase was primarily due to IMC revenue, an operating segment formed from the acquisition of the WLS business of Infineon. To a lesser extent, significantly higher ISG microprocessor and chipset unit sales also contributed to the increase. These increases were partially offset by significantly lower NTG microprocessor and chipset unit sales. 46 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Operating results for the Other IA operating segments decreased by $403 million from an operating income of $194 million in the first nine months of 2010 to an operating loss of $209 million the first nine months of 2011. The decline in operating results was primarily due to higher operating expenses within each of the Other IA operating segments, partially offset by higher revenue. Software and Services Operating Segments The revenue and operating income for the Software and Services operating segments, including McAfee, Wind River Software Group, and Software and Services Group, for the first nine months of 2011 and the first nine months of 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Net revenue $ 1,292 $ 189 Operating loss $ (48 ) $ (128 ) Net revenue for the Software and Services operating segments increased by $1.1 billion in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. The increase was due to revenue from the acquisition of McAfee. Due to the revaluation of McAfees historic deferred revenue to fair value, we excluded $169 million of revenue that would have been reported in the first nine months of 2011 if McAfees deferred revenue had not been written down due to the acquisition. Operating loss for the Software and Services operating segments decreased by $80 million in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. The operating loss decrease was primarily due to higher revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses across each of the Software and Services operating segments. Due to the revaluation of McAfees historic deferred revenue to fair value, we excluded revenue and associated costs that would have created $158 million of operating income in the first nine months of 2011. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the first nine months of 2011 and the first nine months of 2010 were as follows: (In Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Research and development $ 6,042 $ 4,905 Marketing, general and administrative $ 5,697 $ 4,604 Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles $ 188 $ 11 Research and Development. R&D spending increased by $1.1 billion, or 23%, in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. This increase was primarily due to the expenses of McAfee and Intel Mobile Communications, and higher compensation expenses based on an increase in employees. These increases were partially offset by lower overall process development costs as the transition to manufacturing start-up costs related to our 22nm process technology outweighs R&D of our next-generation 14nm process technology. Marketing, General and Administrative. Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased by $1.1 billion, or 24%, in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. This increase was primarily due to the expenses of McAfee and Intel Mobile Communications, higher compensation expenses based on an increase in employees, and higher advertising expenses (including cooperative advertising expenses). R&D, combined with marketing, general and administrative expenses, were 29% of net revenue in the first nine months of 2011 (30% of net revenue in the first nine months of 2010). Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles. The increase of $177 million was primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to the acquisitions of McAfee and the WLS business of Infineon, both completed in the first quarter of 2011. For further information, see Note 15: Acquisitions and Note 18: Identified Intangible Assets in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. 47 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Gains (Losses) on Equity Method Investments, Net Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net were as follows: (In Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Equity method losses, net $ (192 ) $ (72 ) Impairment charges (10 ) Other, net 44 245 Total gains (losses) on equity method investments, net $ (148 ) $ 163 We recognized lower gains on sales and higher equity method losses in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. During the first nine months of 2010, we recognized a gain of $33 million on the initial public offering of SMART, included within Equity method losses, net, and a gain of $148 million on the subsequent sale of our shares in the secondary offering, included in Other, net, resulting in a total gain of $181 million. We also recognized a gain of $91 million on the sale of our ownership interest in Numonyx, included in Other, net. Equity method losses, net also includes Clearwire LLC ($145 million loss in the first nine months of 2011 and $81 million loss in the first nine months of 2010) and Numonyx ($42 million gain in the first nine months of 2010). Gains (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net Gains (losses) on other equity investments, net were as follows: (In Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Impairment charges $ (102 ) $ (85 ) Gains on sales, net 276 125 Other, net 69 36 Total gains (losses) on other equity investments, net $ 243 $ 76 We recognized higher gains on sales of other equity investments and higher gains from other equity transactions, partially offset by higher impairment charges in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010. Gains on sales of equity investments included a gain of $150 million on the sale of shares in VMware Inc. in the first nine months of 2011 and a gain of $67 million on the sale of shares in Micron in the first nine months of 2010. Interest and Other, Net The components of interest and other, net were as follows: (In Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Interest income $ 70 $ 90 Interest expense (6 ) Other, net 157 (12 ) Total interest and other, net $ 221 $ 78 Interest and other, net increased in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010, primarily due to a $164 million gain recognized upon formation of the Intel-GE Care Innovations, LLC joint venture during Q1 2011. For further information, see Note 11: Equity Method Investments, in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. The gain was partially offset by lower interest income in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010 as a result of lower average investment balances. 48 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Provision for Taxes Our provision for taxes and effective tax rate were as follows: (Dollars in Millions) YTD 2011 YTD 2010 Income before taxes $ 13,194 $ 11,882 Provision for taxes $ 3,612 $ 3,598 Effective tax rate 27.4 % 30.3 % The effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2011 was positively impacted by a higher percentage of profits being derived from lower tax jurisdictions compared to the first nine months of 2010. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2011 also included the U.S. research and development tax credit that was reinstated in December 2010. Business Outlook Our future results of operations and the topics of other forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-Q, including this MD&A, involve a number of risks and uncertaintiesin particular: changes in business and economic conditions; revenue and pricing; gross margin and costs; pending legal proceedings; our effective tax rate; marketing, general and administrative expenses; our goals and strategies; new product introductions, and product defects and errata; plans to cultivate new businesses; R&D expenses; divestitures, acquisitions, or similar transactions; net gains (losses) from equity investments; interest and other, net; capital spending; depreciation; and impairment of investments. In addition to the various important factors discussed above, a number of other important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. See the risks described in Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. Our expectations for the remainder of 2011 are as follows: Q4 2011 Revenue. $14.7 billion, plus or minus $500 million. Gross margin percentage. 65% plus or minus a couple percentage points. Total spending. We expect spending on R&D, plus marketing, general and administrative expenses to be approximately $4.3 billion. Depreciation. Approximately $1.4 billion. Full Year 2011 Capital spending. $10.5 billion, plus or minus $300 million. 2011 will have 53 weeks of business versus the typical 52 weeks. Status of Business Outlook We expect that our corporate representatives will, from time to time, meet publicly or privately with investors and others, and may reiterate the forward-looking statements contained in the Business Outlook section and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including any such statements that are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q. At the same time, we will keep this Form 10-Q and our most current business outlook publicly available on our Investor Relations web site at www.intc.com . The public can continue to rely on the business outlook published on the web site as representing our current expectations on matters covered, unless we publish a notice stating otherwise. The statements in the Business Outlook section and other forward-looking statements in this Form 10-Q are subject to revision during the course of the year in our quarterly earnings releases and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings and at other times. 49 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) The forward-looking statements in the Business Outlook section will be effective through the close of business December 16, 2011 unless earlier updated. From the close of business on December 16, 2011 until our quarterly earnings release is published, presently scheduled for January 19, 2012, we will observe a quiet period. During the quiet period, the Business Outlook section and other forward-looking statements first published in our Form 8-K filed on October 18, 2011, as reiterated or updated as applicable in this Form 10-Q, should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet period only and not subject to update. During the quiet period, our representatives will not comment on our business outlook or our financial results or expectations. The exact timing and duration of the routine quiet period, and any others that we utilize from time to time, may vary at our discretion. Liquidity and Capital Resources $21,497 $21,497 (Dollars in Millions) Oct. 1, 2011 Dec. 25, 2010 Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and marketable debt instruments included in trading assets $ 15,192 $ 21,497 Loans receivable and other long-term investments $ 1,895 $ 3,876 Short-term and long-term debt $ 7,142 $ 2,115 Debt as % of stockholders equity 15.5 % 4.3 % In summary, our cash flows were as follows: Nine Months Ended Oct. 1, Sept. 25, (In Millions) 2011 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 14,333 $ 11,142 Net cash used for investing activities (5,534 ) (7,567 ) Net cash used for financing activities (7,250 ) (2,045 ) Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents 10 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,559 $ 1,530 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. Cash from operations for the first nine months of 2011 was $14.3 billion, an increase of $3.2 billion compared to the first nine months of 2010 due to adjustments for non-cash items and higher net income, partially offset by changes in our working capital. The adjustments for non-cash items were higher for the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010 primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization of intangibles, as well as increases in non acquisition-related deferred tax liabilities as of October 1, 2011 compared to December 25, 2010. Income taxes paid, net of refunds, in the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010 were $723 million lower largely due to the tax benefit of 100% bonus depreciation for assets placed in service in the United States in 2011. Changes in assets and liabilities as of October 1, 2011 compared to December 25, 2010 included the following: Accounts receivable increased due to higher revenue. Accrued compensation and benefits decreased due to payout of 2010 profit-dependent compensation. Accounts Payable increased due to timing of payments. For the first nine months of 2011, our two largest customers accounted for 34% of net revenue (37% for the first nine months of 2010) with one of those customers accounting for 19% of our net revenue, and another customer accounting for 15% of our net revenue. These two largest customers accounted for 32% of net accounts receivable at October 1, 2011 (44% at December 25, 2010). Investing Activities The decrease in cash used for investing activities in the first nine months of 2011, compared to the first nine months of 2010, was primarily due to net sales and maturities of available-for-sale investments and trading assets during the first nine months of 2011 as compared to net purchases of available-for-sale investments and trading assets during the first nine months of 2010. These decreases were partially offset by higher cash paid for acquisitions, of which the substantial majority was for our acquisition of McAfee in the first quarter of 2011, and an increase in capital expenditures as we build and equip our 22nm process technology manufacturing capacity. 50 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Financing Activities The increase in cash used for financing activities in the first nine months of 2011, compared to the first nine months of 2010, was primarily due to repurchases of common stock under our authorized common stock repurchase program during the first nine months of 2011, partially offset by the issuance of long-term debt in the third quarter of 2011. Liquidity Cash generated by operations is our primary source of liquidity. As of October 1, 2011, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and marketable debt instruments included in trading assets totaled $15.2 billion ($21.5 billion as of December 25, 2010). In addition to the $15.2 billion, we have $1.9 billion in loans receivable and other long-term investments that we include when assessing our investment portfolio. Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments are with A/A2 or better rated issuers, and a majority of the issuers are rated AA-/Aa3 or better. Our commercial paper program provides another potential source of liquidity. We have an ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up to $3.0 billion, including through the issuance of commercial paper. Maximum borrowings under our commercial paper program during the first nine months of 2011 were $1.4 billion, although no commercial paper remained outstanding as of October 1, 2011. Our commercial paper was rated A-1+ by Standard & Poors and P-1 by Moodys as of October 1, 2011. We also have an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an unspecified amount of debt, equity, and other securities. In the third quarter of 2011, we utilized this shelf registration statement and issued $5.0 billion aggregate principal of senior unsecured notes. These notes were issued primarily to repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our common stock repurchase program, and for general corporate purposes. For further information on the terms of the notes, see Note 21: Borrowings in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. We believe that we have the financial resources needed to meet business requirements for the next 12 months, including capital expenditures for worldwide manufacturing and assembly and test; working capital requirements; and potential dividends, common stock repurchases, and acquisitions or strategic investments. Fair Value of Financial Instruments When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. See Note 5: Fair Value in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. Credit risk is factored into the valuation of financial instruments that we measure and record at fair value. When fair value is determined using pricing models, such as a discounted cash flow model, the issuers credit risk or Intels credit risk is factored into the calculation of the fair value, as appropriate. Marketable Debt Instruments As of October 1, 2011, our assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis included $15.1 billion of marketable debt instruments. Of these instruments, $3.5 billion was classified as Level 1, $11.3 billion as Level 2, and $246 million as Level 3. Our balance of marketable debt instruments that are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 1 was classified as such due to the use of observable market prices for identical securities that are traded in active markets. Management judgment was required to determine the levels for the frequency of transactions that should be met for a market to be considered active. Our assessment of an active market for our marketable debt instruments generally takes into consideration the number of days each individual instrument trades over a specified period. Of the $11.3 billion balance of marketable debt instruments measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2, approximately 65% of the balance was classified as Level 2 due to the use of a discounted cash flow model and approximately 35% due to the use of non-binding market consensus prices that are corroborated with observable market data. Our marketable debt instruments that are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3 were classified as such due to the lack of observable market data to corroborate either the non-binding market consensus prices or the non-binding broker quotes. When observable market data is not available, we corroborate the non-binding market consensus prices and non-binding broker quotes using available unobservable data. 51 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued) Loans Receivable As of October 1, 2011, our assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis included $779 million of loans receivable. All of these securities were classified as Level 2 as the fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow model with all significant inputs derived from or corroborated with observable market data. Equity Securities As of October 1, 2011, our assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis included $522 million of marketable equity securities. The substantial majority of these securities were classified as Level 1 because the valuations were based on quoted prices for identical securities in active markets. Our assessment of an active market for our marketable equity securities generally takes into consideration the number of days that each individual equity security trades over a specified period. Contractual Obligations During the third quarter of 2011, we issued $5.0 billion of senior unsecured notes. Our total cash payments (including anticipated interest payments that are not recorded on the consolidated condensed balance sheets) over the life of this long-term debt obligation are expected to be approximately $8.0 billion. For further information, see Note 21: Borrowings in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q. 52