ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) includes the following sections: Executive Overview that discusses at a high level our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations that includes a more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources which discusses key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see Item 1A in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2016 . In the third quarter of fiscal 2016 we completed the sales of our Demandforce, QuickBase, and Quicken businesses. We have reclassified our statements of operations for all periods presented to reflect these businesses as discontinued operations. Because the cash flows of these discontinued operations were not material for any period presented, we have not segregated them on our statements of cash flows. See Results of Operations Discontinued Operations later in this Item 2 for more information. Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion pertains only to our continuing operations. Executive Overview This overview provides a high-level discussion of our business and growth strategy as well as the trends, opportunities, challenges, and risks that affect our performance and operating results. Understanding our growth strategy and the trends that affect our business provides context for the discussion of financial results and future opportunities which follows this overview. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. About Intuit Intuit creates business and financial management solutions that help simplify the business of life for small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. We organize our businesses into three reportable segments Small Business, Consumer Tax, and ProConnect. Small Business : This segment targets small businesses and the accounting professionals who serve and advise them. Our Small Business offerings include QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, and payment processing solutions. They also include third-party applications that integrate with our offerings. Consumer Tax : This segment targets consumers and includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services. ProConnect : This segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and doing the nations' taxes. Our ProConnect professional tax offerings include Lacerte, ProSeries, ProFile, and ProConnect Tax Online. Our Growth Strategy Our assessment of key technology and demographic trends an increasingly borderless world, the prevalence of mobile devices, and the scalability of the cloud reveals significant opportunities to drive future growth by continuing to solve the unmet needs of small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. Our evolving growth strategy includes three key elements: Focus on the product we call it Delivering awesome product experiences. As computers have moved to the palm of our hands in the form of tablets and smart phones, so have our products and services. Our TurboTax solutions, for 22 Table of Contents example, let customers prepare and file their entire tax returns online, via tablet, mobile phone, or computer. A key factor in growing our customer base is to deliver an amazing first-use experience so our customers can get the value they expect from our offerings as quickly and easily as possible. Creating network effect platforms we call it Enabling the contributions of others. We expect to solve our customers' problems faster and more efficiently by moving to more open platforms with application programming interfaces that integrate the contributions of end users and third-party developers. One example of this is our QuickBooks Online Ecosystem, where small businesses and accountants around the world can install apps created by third-party developers to create an experience that is personalized and configured for their specific needs. Leveraging our data for our customers' benefit we call it Using data to create delight. Our customers generate valuable data that we seek to use appropriately to deliver better products and breakthrough benefits by eliminating the need to enter data, helping them make better decisions and improving transactions and interactions. Industry Trends and Seasonality Industry Trends The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future. The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers. While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase. In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services. This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses. Seasonality Our Consumer Tax offerings have significant seasonal patterns. As a result, during each of the last three fiscal years the total revenue for our third quarter ended April 30 has represented nearly half of our total revenue for those years. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer Tax business to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Beginning in early calendar year 2015, state taxing authorities, the IRS, and the tax preparation industry experienced an increase in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds at the federal level and expanding into the state level. We implemented additional security measures in our products and began working with state governments to share information regarding suspicious filings while continuing to share such information with the federal government. We continue to invest in security and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Quarterly Report. 23 Table of Contents Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses and transaction volume for our payment processing business. Total credit and debit card transaction volume correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment and is one of the key drivers of revenue growth in our payment processing business. Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years. Connected services (total service and other revenue) generated $3.4 billion or 73% of our total revenue in fiscal 2016 , compared with about 50% of our total revenue eight years ago. We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future. Total net revenue for the first three months of fiscal 2017 was $778 million , an increase of 9% compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 . Total net revenue results were affected by the fiscal 2015 changes that we made to our desktop software offerings. Starting with the release of QuickBooks 2015 in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, and for all subsequent versions, we began delivering ongoing enhancements and certain connected services for our QuickBooks desktop software products. We plan to continue to provide ongoing enhancements and certain connected services for all future versions of these products. As a result of these changes, we recognize revenue for these QuickBooks desktop software products as services are provided over approximately three years. Revenue in our Small Business segment grew 11% in the first three months of fiscal 2017 compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 due to growth in Small Business Online Ecosystem revenue and the impact of the changes to our QuickBooks Desktop software products. Revenue in our Consumer Tax and ProConnect segments was seasonally light. Operating loss from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2017 increased 110% compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 primarily due to higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for staffing, advertising and other marketing programs, and share-based compensation. Net loss from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2017 decreased 3% compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 due to a higher effective tax rate in the fiscal 2017 period, which more than offset the increase in operating loss. Diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2017 increased 9% to $0.12 as a result of the change in the net loss and the decline in weighted average diluted common shares compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 . We ended the first three months of fiscal 2017 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $605 million . During the first three months of fiscal 2017 we generated cash from net sales of investments, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. At October 31, 2016 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.2 billion for stock repurchases. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2016 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. We believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2017 . Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. 24 Table of Contents Results of Operations Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY17 Q1 FY16 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 778 $ 713 $ 65 9 % Operating loss from continuing operations (61 ) (29 ) (32 ) 110 % Net loss from continuing operations (30 ) (31 ) 1 (3 )% Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations $ (0.12 ) $ (0.11 ) $ (0.01 ) 9 % Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 increased $65 million or 9% compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 . Total net revenue results were affected by the fiscal 2015 changes that we made to our desktop software offerings described in Executive Overview Overview of Financial Results above. Revenue in our Small Business segment grew 11% in the first three months of fiscal 2017 due to growth in Small Business Online Ecosystem revenue and the impact of the changes to our QuickBooks desktop software products. Revenue in our Consumer Tax and ProConnect segments was seasonally light. See Segment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating loss from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2017 increased 110% compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 primarily due to higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for staffing, advertising and other marketing programs, and share-based compensation. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net loss from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2017 decreased 3% compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 due to a higher effective tax rate in the fiscal 2017 period, which was driven by our early adoption of ASU 2016-09. The higher effective tax rate more than offset the increase in operating loss. See Non-Operating Income and Expenses Income Taxes later in this Item 2 for more information. Diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2017 increased 9% to $0.12 as a result of the change in the net loss and the decline in weighted average diluted common shares compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2016 . Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See Executive Overview About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $328 million in the first three months of fiscal 2017 and $281 million in the first three months of fiscal 2016 . Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2017 period due to increases in corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and due to higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary slightly from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below. 25 Table of Contents Small Business (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY17 Q1 FY16 % Change Product revenue $ 188 $ 166 13 % Service and other revenue 418 380 10 % Total segment revenue $ 606 $ 546 11 % % of total revenue 78 % 77 % Segment operating income $ 240 $ 216 11 % % of related revenue 40 % 40 % Product revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks Desktop software products, including QuickBooks Desktop Pro, QuickBooks Desktop for Mac, QuickBooks Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Enterprise; QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses; and financial supplies. Service and other revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise with Hosting, our subscription offerings; QuickBooks technical support plans; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, and Intuit Full Service Payroll; and payment processing services for small businesses. Small Business segment total net revenue increased $60 million or 11% in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2016 . Small Business segment revenue growth was affected by the fiscal 2015 changes to our QuickBooks desktop offerings described in Executive Overview Overview of Financial Results above. Small Business Online Ecosystem revenue grew 26%, driven by customer acquisition. QuickBooks Online subscribers grew 41% and online payroll customers grew 24%. Active online payments customers grew 5% and online payments charge volume grew 13%. In our Small Business Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased 6%. QuickBooks desktop revenue increased 76% due to 23% higher unit sales and the impact of the fiscal 2015 changes to our QuickBooks desktop offerings. Unusually high renewals from existing QuickBooks Desktop customers were driven by operating systems upgrades. QuickBooks Enterprise revenue grew 21%. Desktop payments revenue decreased 14% during the first three months of fiscal 2017 as we focused resources on core offerings for QuickBooks merchants and deemphasized certain non-QuickBooks payments offerings. Small Business segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue was flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2016 . Higher revenue was partially offset by higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for advertising and other marketing programs. Consumer Tax (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY17 Q1 FY16 % Change Product revenue $ 11 $ 10 12 % Service and other revenue 49 47 4 % Total segment revenue $ 60 $ 57 6 % % of total revenue 8 % 8 % Segment operating loss $ (39 ) $ (28 ) 39 % % of related revenue (65 )% (49 )% Consumer Tax segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software. Consumer Tax segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer Tax offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from consumer tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Consumer Tax segment revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Consumer segment total net revenue increased $3 million or 6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2016. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer Tax revenue, we do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in our 26 Table of Contents Consumer Tax segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2016 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2017. In our first fiscal quarter our Consumer Tax segment typically generates operating losses because Consumer Tax revenue is nominal while segment operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Consumer Tax segment operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2016 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. ProConnect (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY17 Q1 FY16 % Change Product revenue $ 98 $ 95 3 % Service and other revenue 14 15 (10 )% Total segment revenue $ 112 $ 110 1 % % of total revenue 14 % 15 % Segment operating income $ 70 $ 72 (3 )% % of related revenue 62 % 65 % ProConnect segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products. ProConnect segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax return preparation, bank products, and related services that complement the tax return preparation process. This segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and doing the nations taxes. During fiscal 2017 we expect to expand our emphasis on the value that professional accountants bring to small businesses and focus less on growing our ProConnect revenue through price increases. We expect that this will result in slower ProConnect revenue growth in fiscal 2017 than we have experienced historically. ProConnect total net revenue increased $2 million or 1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2016. ProConnect segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2017 compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 due to higher spending for staffing expenses. Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY17 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY16 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 29 10 % $ 29 11 % Cost of service and other revenue 151 31 % 131 30 % Amortization of acquired technology 3 n/a 6 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 183 24 % $ 166 23 % Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY17 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY16 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 283 36 % $ 244 34 % Research and development 246 32 % 213 30 % General and administrative 126 16 % 117 17 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 1 % 2 % Total operating expenses $ 656 84 % $ 576 81 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue increased to 84% in the first three months of fiscal 2017 from 81% in the same period of fiscal 2016 . Total net revenue for the first three months of fiscal 2017 increased $65 million or 9% 27 Table of Contents and total operating expenses for that period increased $80 million. Operating expenses increased about $32 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, about $30 million for advertising and other marketing programs, and about $22 million for share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation expenses have been increasing over time because the market price of our common stock has generally been increasing. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $9 million for the first three months of fiscal 2017 consisted primarily of interest on our senior notes and unsecured term loan. Interest expense of $7 million for the first three months of fiscal 2016 consisted primarily of interest on our senior notes. See Note 5 and Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended (In millions) October 31, 2016 October 31, 2015 Interest income $ 1 $ Net loss on executive deferred compensation plan assets (1 ) (2 ) Other (2 ) (2 ) Total interest and other income (expense), net $ (2 ) $ (4 ) Interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 increased slightly compared with the same period of fiscal 2016 due to higher average interest rates partially offset by lower average invested balances. In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. In December 2015 the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 was signed into law. The Act includes a permanent reinstatement of the federal research and experimentation that was retroactive to January 1, 2015. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we elected to early adopt ASU 2016-09, "CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." This new standard requires excess tax benefits recognized on stock-based compensation expense to be reflected in the statements of operations as a component of the provision for income taxes on a prospective basis. See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was approximately 58% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits resulting from the adoption of ASU 2016-09, our effective tax rate for the period was 34% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was approximately 22% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation as well as including the effects of losses in certain jurisdictions where we do not recognize a tax benefit, our effective tax rate for the period was approximately 36% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Discontinued Operations In the third quarter of fiscal 2016 we sold our Demandforce, QuickBase, and Quicken businesses for $463 million in cash. We recorded a pre-tax gain of $354 million and a net gain of $173 million on the disposal of these three businesses in fiscal 2016. We have reclassified our statements of operations for all periods presented to reflect these businesses as discontinued operations. See Note 4 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. 28 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At October 31, 2016 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $605 million , a decrease of $475 million from July 31, 2016 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2016 July 31, 2016 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 605 $ 1,080 $ (475 ) (44 )% Long-term investments 28 28 % Short-term debt 625 512 113 22 % Long-term debt 475 488 (13 ) (3 )% Working capital (deficit) (919 ) (637 ) (282 ) 44 % Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 0.6 : 1 0.7 : 1 We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so during the balance of fiscal 2017 . Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $605 million at October 31, 2016 , none of those funds were restricted, and approximately 70% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases. At October 31, 2016 , $100 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these types of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 . See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2016 October 31, 2015 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (205 ) $ (188 ) $ (17 ) Investing activities 98 816 (718 ) Financing activities (166 ) (961 ) 795 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (5 ) (1 ) (4 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (278 ) $ (334 ) $ 56 29 Table of Contents During the first three months of fiscal 2017 we generated cash from net sales of investments, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, including the payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2016, the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. During the first three months of fiscal 2016 we generated cash from net sales of investments, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, including the payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2015, the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2017 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At October 31, 2016 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.2 billion for stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. During the first three months of fiscal 2017 we also continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. In November 2016 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.34 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 18, 2017 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2017 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Credit Facilities On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion. The master credit agreement includes a $500 million unsecured term loan and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021. Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At October 31, 2016 , $100 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. Under the master credit agreement, we borrowed $500 million in the form of an unsecured term loan on February 1, 2016. We may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $500 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments of 2.5% of the loan amount beginning in July 2017, with the balance payable on February 1, 2021. At October 31, 2016 , $500 million was outstanding under the term loan. The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2016 . Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $605 million at October 31, 2016 . Of this amount, approximately 30% was held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada, India, and the United Kingdom. We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have 30 Table of Contents not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At October 31, 2016 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2016 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2017 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. 31 Table of Contents