ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) includes the following sections: Executive Overview that discusses at a high level our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations that includes a more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources which discusses key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see Item 1A in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2012 . We acquired Demandforce, Inc. in May 2012 and we have included the results of operations for that business in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. We have also reclassified our financial statements for all periods presented to reflect our Intuit Websites business as discontinued operations. See Results of Operations Discontinued Operations later in this Item 2 for more information. Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion pertains only to our continuing operations. Executive Overview This overview provides a high-level discussion of our business and growth strategy as well as the trends, opportunities, challenges, and risks that affect our performance and operating results. Understanding our growth strategy and the trends that affect our business provides context for the discussion of financial results and future opportunities which follows this overview. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. About Intuit Intuit is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small businesses, consumers, accounting professionals and financial institutions. We organize our portfolio of businesses into four principal categories Small Business Group, Tax, Financial Services and Other Businesses. These categories include seven financial reporting segments. Small Business Group: This category includes three segments Financial Management Solutions, Employee Management Solutions, and Payment Solutions targeting the small business market and represented 39% of our revenue in fiscal 2012. Our Financial Management Solutions segment includes QuickBooks financial and business management software and services; QuickBooks technical support; financial supplies; and Demandforce, which provides online marketing and customer communication solutions. Our Employee Management Solutions segment provides payroll products and services. Our Payment Solutions segment provides merchant services, including credit and debit card processing, electronic check conversion and automated clearing house services; Web-based transaction processing services for online merchants; and GoPayment mobile payment processing services. Tax: This category includes two segments Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals and represented 45% of our revenue in fiscal 2012. Our Consumer Tax segment includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services for consumers and small businesses. Our Accounting Professionals segment includes Lacerte, ProSeries and Intuit Tax Online professional tax products and services. This segment also includes QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition and the QuickBooks ProAdvisor Program for accounting professionals. 20 Table of Contents Financial Services: This segment consists primarily of digital banking solutions - both online and mobile - for financial institutions and Mint online personal finance services. This segment represented 9% of our revenue in fiscal 2012. Other Businesses: This segment represented 7% of our revenue in fiscal 2012 and includes our global businesses, primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Singapore; Quicken personal finance products and services; and Intuit Health online patient-to-provider communication solutions. Our Growth Strategy We see significant opportunities to drive future growth, based on our assessment of key technology and demographic trends and our focus on building and enabling others to build innovative offerings to simplify the business of life for our customers. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we refined our three-point growth strategy: Focus on the product we call it Delivering awesome product experiences. Customers increasingly demand anytime, anywhere, any device access to their information. Therefore, we are increasingly focused on reimagining our products with a mobile-first, and in some cases mobile-only, design. Our TurboTax solutions, for example, let customers prepare and file their entire tax returns online, via tablet, mobile phone or the desktop. In addition, we believe that a key factor in growing our customer base is to deliver an amazing first-use experience, so our customers can get the value they expect as easily and quickly as possible. Creating network effect platforms we call it Enabling the contributions of others. We expect to solve problems faster and more efficiently for our growing base of customers by moving to more open platforms with application programming interfaces that enable the contributions of end users and third-party developers. One example of this is QuickBooks Online, which now allows small business customers all over the world to contribute to localizing the product. Leveraging our data for our customers' benefit we call it Enabling data to create delight. Our 60 million customers are generating valuable data that we seek to appropriately use to deliver better products and breakthrough benefits by eliminating the need to enter data, helping them make better decisions and improving transactions and interactions. Industry Trends and Seasonality The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future. The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competition and expertise in many of the markets we serve, particularly small business services, consumer tax, and online and mobile banking, have grown over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers. While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase. In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services. This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses. Our QuickBooks, Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals businesses are highly seasonal. Revenue from our QuickBooks software products tends to be highest during our second and third fiscal quarters. Sales of income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated from November through April. In our Consumer Tax business, a greater proportion of our revenue has shifted to later in this seasonal period due in part to the growth in sales of TurboTax Online, for which we recognize revenue when tax returns are printed or electronically filed. The seasonality of our Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals revenue is also affected by the timing of the availability of tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions. Delays in the availability of tax forms or the ability of taxing agencies to receive submissions can cause revenue to shift between our fiscal quarters. These seasonal patterns mean that our total net revenue is usually highest during our second quarter ending January 31 and third quarter ending April 30. We typically report losses in our first quarter ending October 31 and fourth quarter ending July 31. During these quarters, revenue from our tax businesses is minimal while core operating expenses such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We believe the seasonality of our revenue and profitability is likely to continue in the future. In our MD&A we often focus on year-to-date results for our seasonal businesses as they are generally more meaningful than quarterly results. 21 Table of Contents For the 2012 tax season, it appears reasonably possible that federal tax legislation could occur late in calendar year 2012. This could delay the availability of some federal tax forms and the incorporation of those forms into our consumer and professional tax offerings. If we experience these types of delays, some revenue for our online tax offerings could shift from our second fiscal quarter ending on January 31, 2013 to our third fiscal quarter. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report. Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth and operating income growth for the company as a whole and for each business segment; operating income margin; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of business segment results below. These non-financial indicators include, for example, customer growth and retention, and, in certain businesses, transaction volume. Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years. Connected services generated $2.7 billion or 64% of our total revenue in fiscal 2012, compared with 50% of our total revenue five years ago. We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future. We track transaction volume in businesses such as our Payments Solutions business, where total credit and debit card transaction volume, which correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment, contributes to revenue growth. Total net revenue for the first three months of fiscal 2013 was $647 million, an increase of 12% compared with the same period of fiscal 2012 . Our Small Business Group was the key driver of revenue growth in the first three months of fiscal 2013 . Revenue in our Small Business Group grew 18% compared with the same period a year ago due to growth in connected services offerings, improved offering mix, and the May 2012 acquisition of Demandforce. Operating loss from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2013 was $69 million, a decrease of 18% compared with the same period of fiscal 2012 . Higher revenue was partially offset by higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for staffing and share-based compensation. Net loss from continuing operations decreased 12% in the first three months of fiscal 2013 compared with the same period of fiscal 2012 due to the lower operating loss and a lower effective tax benefit rate in the fiscal 2013 quarter. Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2013 decreased 11% to $0.17 as a result of the lower net loss and the decline in weighted average basic and diluted common shares compared with the same period of fiscal 2012 . We ended the first three months of fiscal 2013 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $558 million . In the first three months of fiscal 2013 we generated cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and the sale of our Intuit Websites business. During the same period we used cash for operations, for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, for the payment of cash dividends, and for capital expenditures. At October 31, 2012 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.6 billion for stock repurchases through August 15, 2014 . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on 22 Table of Contents Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2012 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. We believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2013 . Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Results of Operations Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY13 Q1 FY12 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 647 $ 575 $ 72 12 % Operating loss from continuing operations (69 ) (84 ) 15 (18 )% Net loss from continuing operations (51 ) (58 ) 7 (12 )% Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations $ (0.17 ) $ (0.19 ) $ 0.02 (11 )% Total net revenue increased $72 million or 12% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . In our Small Business Group, revenue was up 18% . Financial Management Solutions segment revenue increased 20% , or 9% when adjusted for our May 2012 acquisition of Demandforce. Higher revenue in this segment was driven by continuing growth in QuickBooks Online revenue. Employee Management Solutions segment revenue increased 12% due to favorable offering mix, improved customer adoption of payroll direct deposit services, and price increases for desktop payroll customers. Payment Solutions segment revenue increased 21% due to fee structure changes and higher total card transaction volume. In our Consumer Tax segment, revenue decreased 11% in a seasonally light quarter because customers filed fewer extended tax returns in the fiscal 2013 quarter compared with the same quarter of the previous fiscal year. Accounting Professionals segment revenue increased 19% in a seasonally light quarter due in part to higher QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition revenue. Financial Services segment revenue increased 4% , or 11% when adjusted for the March 2012 sale of our corporate banking business and the addition of Mint revenue in fiscal 2013. Higher revenue in this segment was due to continuing growth in mobile banking revenue. Other Businesses segment revenue increased 5% , or 12% when adjusted for the transfer of fiscal 2013 Mint revenue to our Financial Services segment. See Business Segment Results below for more information. Revenue growth in our Other Businesses segment was due to higher global small business revenue. Operating loss from continuing operations decreased 18% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs and operating expenses. Total operating expenses were $42 million higher in the fiscal 2013 quarter, primarily due to the addition of operating expenses for Demandforce, higher staffing expenses, and higher share-based compensation expenses. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net loss from continuing operations decreased 12% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . Interest expense was lower in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 due to the repayment of debt. We recorded a $10 million gain on the sale of a stock warrant in interest and other income in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Our effective tax benefit rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was 32% and our effective tax benefit rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was 35% . See Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense, Interest and Other Income, Net, and Income Taxes later in this Item 2 for more information. Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 decreased 11% to $0.17 as a result of the lower net loss and the decline in weighted average basic and diluted common shares compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . Business Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our seven reportable business segments. All of our business segments except Other Businesses operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. 23 Table of Contents Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $206 million in the first three months of fiscal 2013 and $183 million in the first three months of fiscal 2012 . Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2013 period due to increases in corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses, and to a lesser extent to increases in share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we moved the segment revenue and operating results for our Mint business from Personal Finance in our Other Businesses segment to our Financial Services segment. Since segment revenue and operating results for Mint were not significant for any period presented, we did not reclassify previously reported segment results to reflect this change. As a result of the reorganization of the reporting structure of Personal Finance and synergies achieved during the time it was managed as one business, we allocated a portion of the total goodwill associated with that reporting unit to Personal Finance and a portion to Mint, which was transferred to the Financial Services reporting unit. We based the allocation of the total goodwill on the fair value of the remaining Personal Finance reporting unit compared with the fair value of the Mint component at the time of the transfer. The subsequent financial performance of the Personal Finance reporting unit relative to the projections used for the allocation of goodwill will determine the realizability of that goodwill. We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below. Financial Management Solutions (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 Q1 FY12 % Change Product revenue $ 89 $ 89 Service and other revenue 91 60 Total segment revenue $ 180 $ 149 20 % % of total revenue 28 % 26 % Segment operating income $ 58 $ 51 14 % % of related revenue 32 % 34 % Financial Management Solutions (FMS) product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks desktop software products and financial supplies such as paper checks, envelopes, invoices, business cards and business stationery. FMS service and other revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Online; QuickBooks technical support plans; Demandforce, which provides online marketing and customer communication solutions for small businesses; QuickBase; and royalties from small business online services. FMS total net revenue increased $31 million or 20% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . When adjusted to exclude revenue from Demandforce, which we acquired in May 2012, FMS revenue was 9% higher in the fiscal 2013 quarter. U.S. QuickBooks Online subscribers grew 25%, driving the revenue growth in this segment. FMS segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased to 32% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 from 34% in the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . The increase in segment revenue described above was partially offset by higher segment costs and expenses that included costs and expenses for Demandforce. Staffing expenses were about $20 million higher, driven by an increase in headcount, and marketing expenses were about $5 million higher. 24 Table of Contents Employee Management Solutions (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 Q1 FY12 % Change Product revenue $ 71 $ 68 Service and other revenue 64 53 Total segment revenue $ 135 $ 121 12 % % of total revenue 21 % 21 % Segment operating income $ 85 $ 75 14 % % of related revenue 63 % 62 % Employee Management Solutions (EMS) product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll, which are products sold on a subscription basis that offer payroll tax tables, payroll reports, federal and state payroll tax forms, and electronic tax payment and filing to small businesses that prepare their own payrolls. EMS service and other revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Online Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll, fees for payroll direct deposit services, and fees for other small business payroll and employee management services. Service and other revenue for this segment also includes interest earned on funds held for customers. EMS total net revenue increased $14 million or 12% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . Revenue was higher in the fiscal 2013 period due to customer growth in our Enhanced desktop payroll and online payroll solutions, improved customer adoption of payroll direct deposit services, and price increases for desktop payroll customers. At October 31, 2012 , total U.S. payroll customers were up 2% while U.S. online payroll customers were up 20% compared with October 31, 2011 . EMS segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased slightly to 63% in the first quarters of fiscal 2013 from 62% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 . Segment operating income was consistent in these periods due to the increase in segment revenue described above and relatively stable segment operating expenses. Payment Solutions (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 Q1 FY12 % Change Product revenue $ 6 $ 6 Service and other revenue 108 88 Total segment revenue $ 114 $ 94 21 % % of total revenue 17 % 16 % Segment operating income $ 22 $ 24 (9 )% % of related revenue 19 % 25 % Payment Solutions product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions, which help retailers process and track sales electronically and integrate with QuickBooks financial software. Payment Solutions service and other revenue is derived primarily from merchant services for small businesses that include credit card, debit card, electronic benefits, and gift card processing services; check verification, check guarantee and electronic check conversion, including automated clearing house (ACH) and Check21 capabilities; Web-based transaction processing services for online merchants; and GoPayment mobile payment processing services. Payment Solutions total net revenue increased $20 million or 21% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . Higher revenue in the fiscal 2013 quarter was driven by fee structure changes and 10% higher U.S. total credit and debit card transaction volume. The U.S. merchant customer base grew 15% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2012. 25 Table of Contents Payment Solutions segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased to 19% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 from 25% in the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . The increase in segment revenue was more than offset by higher segment costs and expenses, including higher chargeback losses from mobile offerings in cost of revenue and higher staffing expenses associated with an increase in headcount. Consumer Tax (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 Q1 FY12 % Change Product revenue $ 7 $ 11 Service and other revenue 29 30 Total segment revenue $ 36 $ 41 (11 )% % of total revenue 6 % 7 % Segment operating loss $ (27 ) $ (28 ) (5 )% % of related revenue (73 )% (69 )% Consumer Tax product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax federal and state consumer and small business desktop tax return preparation software. Consumer Tax service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer Tax business, we typically generate nominal revenue from consumer and small business tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Consumer Tax revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Consumer Tax segment revenue decreased $5 million or 11% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 primarily because customers filed fewer extended tax returns in the fiscal 2013 quarter compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012. We do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current tax year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2012 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2013. In our first fiscal quarter our Consumer Tax segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Consumer Tax operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Accounting Professionals (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 Q1 FY12 % Change Product revenue $ 28 $ 23 Service and other revenue 4 4 Total segment revenue $ 32 $ 27 19 % % of total revenue 5 % 5 % Segment operating loss $ (10 ) $ (14 ) (25 )% % of related revenue (33 )% (52 )% Accounting Professionals product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte and ProSeries professional tax preparation software products and from QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition and ProAdvisor Program for professional accountants. Accounting Professionals service and other revenue is derived primarily from Intuit Tax Online tax return preparation services, electronic tax filing services, bank product transmission services and training services. Due to the seasonal nature of our Accounting Professionals business, we typically generate nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Accounting Professionals tax revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the 26 Table of Contents previous tax year. Accounting Professionals total net revenue increased $5 million or 19% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . Growth in QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition revenue contributed to the fiscal 2013 total revenue growth in this segment. We do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current tax year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2012 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2013. In our first fiscal quarter our Accounting Professionals segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Accounting Professionals operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Financial Services (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 Q1 FY12 % Change Product revenue $ $ Service and other revenue 93 89 Total segment revenue $ 93 $ 89 4 % % of total revenue 14 % 16 % Segment operating income $ 15 $ 18 (17 )% % of related revenue 16 % 21 % Financial Services service and other revenue is derived primarily from online and mobile banking solutions that are hosted in our data centers and delivered as software as a service to financial institutions. Financial Services service and other revenue also includes fees for implementation services and online lead generation fees from our Mint personal finance business. Financial Services total net revenue increased $4 million or 4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 grew 11% when adjusted for the March 2012 sale of our corporate banking business and the addition of Mint revenue in fiscal 2013. We reported Mint in our Other Businesses segment in fiscal 2012. Revenue growth for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was primarily driven by higher mobile banking revenue. Mobile banking revenue grew due to an increase in mobile banking end users and usage. Financial Services segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased to 16% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 from 21% in the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . The increase in segment revenue described above was more than offset by higher segment costs and expenses, including higher data center hosting expenses and slightly higher staffing expenses associated with a modest increase in headcount. Other Businesses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 Q1 FY12 % Change Product revenue $ 26 $ 25 Service and other revenue 31 29 Total segment revenue $ 57 $ 54 5 % % of total revenue 9 % 9 % Segment operating income (loss) $ 6 $ (3 ) (326 )% % of related revenue 11 % (5 )% Other Businesses consist primarily of Quicken; Intuit Health; and our global businesses, primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Singapore. Quicken product revenue is derived primarily from Quicken personal finance desktop software products. Quicken service and other revenue is derived primarily from fees from consumer online transactions and Quicken Loans trademark royalties. Intuit Health service revenue is derived from online patient-to-provider communication services and fees for implementation services. In Canada, product revenue is derived primarily from localized versions of QuickBooks and 27 Table of Contents Quicken as well as consumer desktop tax return preparation software and professional tax preparation products. Service and other revenue in Canada consists primarily of revenue from QuickBooks support plans, payroll services, and merchant payment processing services. In the United Kingdom, product revenue is derived primarily from localized versions of QuickBooks and QuickBooks Payroll. In Singapore and other international locations, service and other revenue is derived from QuickBooks Online. Other Businesses total net revenue increased $3 million or 5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 grew 12% when adjusted for the transfer of fiscal 2013 Mint revenue to our Financial Services segment. Global revenue also increased 12% in the fiscal 2013 quarter, driven by growth in global small business revenue. Other Businesses segment operating income increased to $6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 from a loss of $3 million in the same quarter of fiscal 2012 due to slightly higher segment revenue and lower segment costs and expenses due to the transfer of Mint to our Financial Services segment in fiscal 2013. Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY12 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 32 14 % $ 32 14 % Cost of service and other revenue 145 35 % 132 37 % Amortization of acquired technology 5 n/a 3 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 182 28 % $ 167 29 % Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2012 due to growth in our QuickBooks Online and online payroll offerings, partially offset by higher chargeback losses from mobile offerings in our Payment Solutions business. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY13 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY12 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 251 39 % $ 216 38 % Research and development 178 28 % 163 28 % General and administrative 98 15 % 92 16 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 7 1 % 21 4 % Total operating expenses $ 534 83 % $ 492 86 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased to 83% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 from 86% in the same quarter of fiscal 2012 . Revenue grew $72 million while total operating expenses excluding amortization of other acquired intangible assets increased $56 million in the fiscal 2013 quarter. The increase in operating expenses includes operating expenses for Demandforce, which we acquired in May 2012. Operating expenses increased about $45 million for higher staffing expenses associated with higher headcount and about $8 million for higher share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation expenses increased because the market price of our common stock was higher at the time of our broad-based July 2012 grants of stock options and restricted stock units compared with the prior fiscal year. 28 Table of Contents Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $8 million for the first three months of fiscal 2013 and $15 million for the first three months of fiscal 2012 consisted primarily of interest on $1 billion in five-year and ten-year senior notes that we issued in March 2007. In March 2012 we repaid $500 million of those senior notes when they became due using cash from operations. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this report for more information. Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended (In millions) October 31, 2012 October 31, 2011 Interest income $ 1 $ 2 Net gain (loss) on executive deferred compensation plan assets 1 (2 ) Gain on disposition of stock warrants 10 Other 1 Total interest and other income, net $ 2 $ 11 Interest and other income, net consists primarily of interest income and net gains on executive deferred compensation plan assets. Slightly lower average invested balances and lower interest rates resulted in lower interest income in the first three months of fiscal 2013 compared with the same period of fiscal 2012 . In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The amounts recorded in operating expenses generally offset the amounts recorded in interest and other income. In connection with our acquisition of Digital Insight Corporation in fiscal 2007, we acquired stock warrants for a privately held company. During the first quarter of fiscal 2012 that company was acquired and we recorded a gain of approximately $10 million on the disposition of the warrants. Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. Our effective tax benefit rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was approximately 32% . Excluding the impact of discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation, our effective tax benefit rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was approximately 35% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . The benefit we received from the domestic production activities deduction was substantially offset by state income taxes. Our effective tax benefit rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was approximately 35% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . The benefits we received from the domestic production activities deduction and the federal research and experimentation credit were substantially offset by state income taxes. Discontinued Operations On September 17, 2012 we sold our Intuit Websites business, which was a component of our Financial Management Solutions reporting segment, for approximately $60 million in cash and recorded a gain on disposal of approximately $32 million, net of income taxes. We determined that Intuit Websites became discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. We have therefore segregated the operating results of Intuit Websites from continuing operations in our statements of operations for all periods prior to the sale. Net revenue from Intuit Websites was $9 million for the three months ended October 31, 2012 and $19 million for the three months ended October 31, 2011 . 29 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At October 31, 2012 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $558 million , a decrease of $186 million from July 31, 2012 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary source of liquidity has been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs, repurchases of our common stock and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. In March 2007 we issued five-year and ten-year senior unsecured notes totaling $1 billion. In March 2012 we repaid the five-year notes when they became due using cash from operations. See Contractual Obligations Commitments for Senior Unsecured Notes later in this Item 2 for more information. We also have a $500 million unsecured revolving line of credit facility that is described later in this Item 2. To date we have not borrowed under the facility. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2012 July 31, 2012 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 558 $ 744 $ (186 ) (25 )% Long-term investments 75 75 % Long-term debt 499 499 % Working capital 260 258 2 1 % Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.2 : 1 1.2 : 1 Auction Rate Securities At October 31, 2012 , we held a total of $33 million in municipal auction rate securities that we classified as long-term investments on our balance sheet based on the maturities of the underlying securities. All of these securities are rated A or better by the major credit rating agencies. Due to a decrease in liquidity in the global credit markets, in February 2008 auctions began failing for the municipal auction rate securities we held and in accordance with authoritative guidance we began estimating their fair value based on a discounted cash flow model that we prepared. Based on our expected operating cash flows and our other sources of cash, we do not believe that the reduction in liquidity of the municipal auction rate securities we held at October 31, 2012 will have a material impact on our overall ability to meet our liquidity needs. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first three months of each of fiscal 2013 and 2012 . See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2012 October 31, 2011 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (145 ) $ (110 ) $ (35 ) Investing activities (50 ) 50 Financing activities (33 ) (226 ) 193 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 1 (3 ) 4 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (177 ) $ (389 ) $ 212 30 Table of Contents Operating Activities During the first three months of fiscal 2013 we used $145 million in cash for our operations. This included a seasonal net loss of $19 million, a seasonal increase of $112 million in income taxes receivable, and the payment of fiscal 2012 accrued bonuses, partially offset by adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $54 million and share-based compensation expense of $49 million. During the first three months of fiscal 2012 we used $110 million in cash for our operations. This included a seasonal net loss of $64 million, a seasonal increase of $67 million in income taxes receivable, and the payment of fiscal 2011 accrued bonuses, partially offset by adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $72 million and share-based compensation expense of $40 million. Investing Activities We used no net cash for investing activities during the first three months of fiscal 2013 . We used $70 million in cash for capital expenditures. We received $60 million in cash from the sale of our Intuit Websites business and $15 million in cash from net sales of investments. We used $50 million in cash for investing activities during the first three months of fiscal 2012 . We used $20 million in cash for net purchases of investments and $44 million in cash for capital expenditures. Financing Activities We used $33 million in cash for financing activities during the first three months of fiscal 2013 . We used $100 million in cash for the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase programs and $50 million in cash for the payment of dividends on our common stock, partially offset by the receipt of $73 million in cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. We used $226 million in cash for financing activities during the first three months of fiscal 2012 . We used $255 million in cash for the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase programs and $45 million in cash for the payment of dividends on our common stock, partially offset by the receipt of $45 million in cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Stock Repurchase Programs Our Board of Directors has authorized a series of common stock repurchase programs. Shares of common stock repurchased under these programs become treasury shares. We repurchased 1.7 million shares of our common stock for $100 million during the first three months of fiscal 2013 and 5.2 million shares of our common stock for $255 million during the first three months of fiscal 2012 under these programs. At October 31, 2012 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.6 billion for stock repurchases through August 15, 2014 . We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Dividends on Common Stock In the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we declared and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per share of outstanding common stock that totaled approximately $50 million. In November 2012 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 18, 2013 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2013 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility On February 17, 2012 we entered into an agreement with certain institutional lenders for a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 17, 2017. Advances under the credit facility will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either JP Morgan's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5% . Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to interest payable of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2012 . We may 31 Table of Contents use amounts borrowed under this credit facility for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. To date we have not borrowed under the credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements Our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $558 million at October 31, 2012 . Of this amount, less than 25% was held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. We may decide to use cash and cash equivalents, investments, and our revolving line of credit facility to fund such activities in the future. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account these operating and strategic cash needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At October 31, 2012 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2012 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. Except as discussed below, there have been no significant changes in those obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2013 . Commitments for Senior Unsecured Notes On March 12, 2007 we issued $500 million of 5.75% senior unsecured notes due on March 15, 2017 (the Notes). The Notes are redeemable by Intuit at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15. At October 31, 2012 , our maximum commitment for interest payments under the Notes was $129 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 32 Table of Contents