Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Small Business & Self-Employed Our Small Business & Self-Employed segment serves small and mid-market businesses around the world, and the accounting professionals who assist and advise them. Our goal is for QuickBooks to be the source of truth for each small and mid-market business customer who uses our AI-driven expert platform. Small and mid-market business owners are constantly faced with challenges and barriers in their journey to success. Universally, small businesses at every stage of growth struggle to get customers, get paid, get capital, pay workers, get access to advice, and stay compliant and organized. Our innovative customer growth platform provides actionable, AI-driven insights our customers need to grow and run their businesses with confidence. Get Customers Mailchimp. Mailchimp is an all-in-one marketing platform for growing businesses. Mailchimps marketing platform enables small and mid-market businesses to digitally promote their businesses across email, social media, short message service (SMS), landing pages, ads, websites, and more, all from one place. Get Paid Payment Processing Solutions. Our full range of merchant services for small and mid-market businesses includes credit card, debit card, Apple Pay, and ACH payment services for in-person and card-not-present payments. We offer instant deposit and payments dispute protection options for eligible customers. QuickBooks Payments is deeply integrated into our QuickBooks Online and Desktop offerings through seamless onboarding and automated transaction reconciliation and is the default payment solution for QuickBooks invoicing. QuickBooks Checking. The QuickBooks Checking business bank account comes with a physical and virtual debit card for more spending power, fast payments with no-fee Instant Deposit, and powerful cash flow management with envelopes for partitioning funds for future expenses, all with no fees. Bill Pay. Our QuickBooks Online offerings allow small and mid-market businesses to organize bills and make payments online. Small and mid-market businesses can connect with vendors and automatically import bills through our network, resulting in easier and faster payments. Get Capital Capital.We offer financing options for small and mid-market businesses to help them get the capital they need to succeed. The financing process provides customers with the ability to use their QuickBooks data to qualify to borrow capital, whether directly from Intuit via term loans or from a third-party partner. Additionally, QuickBooks Line of Credit provides flexible access to capital through pre-approved credit limits. Qualified small and mid-market businesses can choose to borrow funds through a series of term loans within a maximum approved credit limit. Pay Workers Workforce Solutions. Our payroll solutions, available as online or desktop solutions, are sold on a subscription basis and integrate with our QuickBooks Online and Desktop offerings or may be purchased standalone. Our QuickBooks Online payroll offerings include automated tax payments and filings, as well as access to human resources solutions and employee benefits Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 6 Tables of Contents offerings like health insurance and 401(k) plans. We also offer QuickBooks Time, which seamlessly integrates with QuickBooks Payroll and third-party payroll products to help businesses easily and accurately track time across a mobile workforce, including tools for project planning, job costing, and tracking per-client billable hours. Access Advice QuickBooks Live. Small businesses can get support through two QuickBooks Live bookkeeping services: Assisted and Full-Service Bookkeeping. With QuickBooks Live Expert Assisted, small businesses have on-demand access to expert bookkeepers who can provide guidance and support on managing their books and making smart business decisions. With QuickBooks Live Full-Service Bookkeeping, small businesses get one-on-one support from our team of expert bookkeepers to manage and maintain books with guaranteed accuracy. Our experienced bookkeepers are certified QuickBooks ProAdvisors, and many are Certified Public Accountants. QuickBooks ProAdvisor. Accounting professionals can assist with bookkeeping, taxes, payroll, and more. Our free Find a ProAdvisor service helps customers find a QuickBooks Certified accountant or bookkeeper who knows their niche, speaks their language, or is close by. To enable our network of hundreds of thousands of accountants, we offer memberships to the QuickBooks ProAdvisor program, which provides accountants access to QuickBooks Online Accountant, technical support, training, product certification, marketing tools, and discounts on Intuit products and services purchased on behalf of clients. Stay Compliant & Organized QuickBooks Online. Designed for all kinds of small businesses, QuickBooks Online helps simplify accounting and tax compliance. Users can track income and expenses, create and send invoices and estimates, manage and pay bills, and review a variety of financial reports. QuickBooks Online also has powerful industry-specific capabilities such as features for product-based businesses. QuickBooks Online is an open platform, enabling third-party developers to create online and mobile applications that integrate with our offering. We offer different QuickBooks Online solutions depending on the size and complexity of the small business, including Simple Start, Essentials, and Plus. Additionally, we offer QuickBooks Online Advanced designed for mid-market businesses with 10 to 100 employees that have more complex needs, and QuickBooks Self-Employed and QuickBooks Solopreneur designed for independent contractors and solo entrepreneurs. QuickBooks Desktop Software. Our QuickBooks financial management solutions are also available as desktop versions for small businesses on a subscription basis. QuickBooks Enterprise, designed for mid-market businesses with 10 to 100 employees, is available for download and can also be provided as a hosted solution. This offering provides industry-specific reports and features for a range of industries, including Contractor, Manufacturing and Wholesale, Nonprofit, and Retail. Financial Supplies. We offer a range of financial supplies designed for individuals and small businesses that use our QuickBooks offerings. These include standard paper checks and Secure Plus checks with CheckLock fraud protection features, a variety of stationery, tax forms, and related supplies. Consumer Our Consumer segment includes our TurboTax products and services that are designed to enable consumers and small businesses to prepare and file their federal and state income tax returns quickly and accurately. These offerings are available either online or as desktop versions in the U.S. and Canada. They are designed to be easy to use, yet sophisticated enough for complex tax returns. For the 2023 tax season, we offered a variety of commercial software products and tax filing services to meet the different needs of our customers, including those who file simple returns, those who itemize deductions, those who own investments or rental property, and small business owners. We offered TurboTax for small businesses, which enables customers to file their business taxes. We offer TurboTax Live for customers seeking to obtain tax advice from professionals and TurboTax Live Full Service for customers seeking to have their tax returns prepared for them. Customers can electronically file their federal and state income tax returns through our electronic filing service. Other services offered include audit defense and audit support. Our online tax preparation, filing, and other services were offered through the websites and mobile apps of thousands of financial institutions, electronic retailers, and other online merchants. Financial institutions can offer our online tax preparation and filing services to their customers through a link to TurboTax Online. Credit Karma Our Credit Karma segment provides consumers with a financial platform that propels them forward wherever they are on their financial journey, enabling them to understand their financial picture, make smart financial decisions, and stick to their financial plan. The platform offers a number of services to our members, many at no charge: access to their credit scores and reports, credit and identity monitoring, credit report dispute, tools to help understand net worth and make financial progress, and personalized recommendations of credit card, loan, and insurance products. Credit Karma Money offers members online savings and checking accounts through an FDIC member bank partner. Credit Karma Money also provides tools to help members improve their credit scores. To provide services to our members, Credit Karma works with a variety of partners, including credit bureaus, banks, credit card issuers, insurance carriers, and other financial institutions and lending partners. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 7 Tables of Contents Additionally, Credit Karma leverages Lightbox, a first-of-its-kind enterprise platform which allows lenders to leverage thousands of de-identified data points from Credit Karma members to help provide our members with greater certainty that they will be approved if they apply for a financial product. ProTax Our ProTax segment includes our professional tax offerings and serves professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings consist of Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProConnect Tax Online in the U.S., and ProFile and ProTax Online in Canada. These offerings enable accountants to accurately and efficiently complete and electronically file a full range of consumer, small business, and commercial federal and state tax returns. Lacerte is designed for full-service, year-round accounting firms who handle more complex returns. ProSeries is designed for year-round tax practices handling moderately complex tax returns. ProConnect Tax Online is our cloud-based solution, which is designed for full-service, year-round practices who prepare all forms of consumer and small business returns and integrates with our QuickBooks Online offerings. ProFile is our Canadian desktop tax offering, which serves year-round full-service accounting firms for both consumer and business tax returns. ProTax Online is our Canadian cloud-based tax solution, which is designed for full-service, year-round practices who prepare all forms of consumer and business tax returns, and is integrated into QuickBooks Online Accountant to provide seamless integration of data across books and tax through our Workpapers solution. Our Tax Advisor offering leverages AI and information generated from our ProConnect Tax Online and Lacerte offerings to enable year-round tax planning services and communicate tax savings strategies to clients. We also offer a variety of tax-related services that complement the tax return preparation process, including year-round document storage, collaboration services, e-signature, and bank products, and additional capabilities such as fixed asset management, desktop hosting, and third-party solutions for practice management for some of our U.S. tax offerings. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The markets for software and related services are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Continuous investment is required to innovate and develop new products and services, as well as enhance existing offerings to be successful in these markets. Our product development efforts are more important than ever as we pursue our growth strategy. We develop many of our products and services internally, and we have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. We also supplement our internal development efforts by acquiring or licensing products and technology from third parties, and establishing other relationships that enable us to enhance or expand our offerings more rapidly. We expect to expand our third-party technology relationships as we continue to pursue our growth strategy. Our online offerings have rapid development cycles, while our traditional desktop software products tend to have predictable development cycles and regular product release cycles. In addition, developing consumer and professional tax software and services presents unique challenges because of the demanding development cycle required to accurately incorporate federal and state tax law and tax form changes within a rigid timetable. The development timing for our small business payroll and merchant payment processing services offerings varies with business needs and regulatory requirements, and the length of the development cycle depends on the scope and complexity of each project. We continue to make substantial investments in research and development, and we expect to focus our future research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and services with financial recommendations, personalization, and ease of use enabled by AI and other advanced technologies. We continue to focus on developing new products and services, including global offerings, and significant research and development efforts for ongoing projects to update the technology platforms for several of our offerings. SEASONALITY Our Consumer and ProTax offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are typically heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern typically results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and ProTax businesses to continue to have a material impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 8 Tables of Contents MARKETING, SALES, AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS Markets Our primary customers are consumers and small and mid-market businesses. We also provide specialized tax and accounting products to professional accountants, who are key partners to help us reach small and mid-market business customers. We partner with financial institutions and other partners, who we connect with consumers on our platform. The markets in which we compete have always been characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements by competitors. The widespread usage of mobile devices and social media, and the evolution of AI, have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that customers learn about, evaluate, and purchase products and services. Real-time, personalized online shopping experiences are the standard. In addition, many customers now begin shopping in one channel and ultimately purchase in another. This has created a need for integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy experiences. Market and industry changes quickly make existing products and services obsolete. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to these changes with new business models, updated competitive strategies, new or enhanced products and services, and other changes in the way we do business. Marketing Programs We use a variety of marketing programs to generate direct sales, develop leads, increase general awareness of the Intuit brand and our product portfolio, and drive sales in retail. These programs include offline marketing such as TV and radio advertising; digital marketing such as display and pay-per-click advertising, search engine optimization, and social and affiliate marketing; email marketing; in-product marketing to drive awareness of related products and services; public relations; sponsorships; podcast marketing; mobile marketing; and retail marketing. Our campaigns are designed to attract new users, retain existing users, and cross-sell additional offerings. Sales and Distribution Channels Direct Sales Channel. We offer our products and services directly through our websites, apps, and call centers. Direct online sales are an effective channel for customers who can make purchase decisions based on content provided on our websites, or via other online content and word-of-mouth recommendations. For many of our products, assisted sales continues to be an effective channel for serving customers who want live help to select the products and services that are right for their needs. We also have a direct sales force that calls on accountants, bookkeepers, and marketing professionals, and seeks to increase their awareness, usage, and recommendation of our small business and professional tax solutions. For mid-market businesses, we have implemented and expanded our omnichannel go-to-market strategy by diversifying and growing our direct sales teams. Multi-Channel Shop-and-Buy Experiences. Our customers primarily research products and services online. Many customers buy and use our products and services entirely online. Some research online but make their purchase at a retail location. Because many customers shop across multiple channels, we continue to coordinate our online, offline, and retail presence and promotions to support an integrated, multi-channel shop-and-buy model. We also focus on cross-selling complementary Intuit and third-party offerings online and in-product. Mobile Application Stores. We distribute many of our offerings for mobile devices through proprietary online stores that provide applications for specific devices. Partner and Other Channels. We offer many of our products and services through partners and other channels, including value-added resellers, technology partners with complimentary platforms, accountants, bookkeepers, and marketing professionals, and professional service providers who help us reach new customers at the point of need and drive growth and market share by extending our online reach. These partners combine our products and services with marketing, sales, and technical expertise to deliver a complete solution at the local level. We also sell our QuickBooks Online and TurboTax Desktop offerings at retail locations across the United States and Canada and on retailer websites. Additionally, we sell our QuickBooks Enterprise software on retailer websites. In Canada, we also rely on distributors who sell products into the retail channel. COMPETITION We face intense competition in all of our businesses in all aspects across all markets for our products and services, which are rapidly evolving, fragmented, and have complex interdependencies with many businesses. Competitive pressures in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years, and the marketing and distribution channels continue to evolve. We expect these trends to continue. Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, successfully use and deploy new technologies such as AI that may reduce customer demand for our products or services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing, and other resources, have greater brand recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively, or beat us to market with new products and services. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 9 Tables of Contents The competitive landscape is also constantly evolving as we expand into new market segments and extend our capabilities, new companies emerge, and existing companies expand their capabilities (either directly or through acquisitions or partnerships) to include the markets in which we operate. Given the breadth of the products and services that we offer as a global financial technology company and the customer problems that we aim to solve, we compete with offerings from a variety of organizations across a range of industries, including large global companies, smaller geographically focused companies, startups, and professional services. Organizations that offer or provide access to offerings that we may compete with include: business software providers, such as those that provide accounting, business management and financial software, marketing automation, customer relationship management, inventory management, payroll and employee management; private and publicly-funded tax preparation and filing service providers; accounting, consulting, and tax firms; companies and banks that provide payments services, including merchant payment processing, checking, bill pay, savings, loans, point of sale devices, and small business financing; companies that provide personal finance management products and tools, including access to credit scores, credit and identity monitoring, credit-building tools, and tools to help understand net worth and make financial progress; companies that provide a marketplace of consumer financial offerings; financial institutions; credit bureaus; and large platform companies that could develop competing technology solutions to any of the problems that our customers may face. We believe our most important competitive factors are our innovation and technology capabilities, functionality, ease of use, and security of our offerings, the integration of our offerings with each other and third-party offerings, brand recognition and reputation, quality of support, and cost. We believe that we compete favorably based on these factors and our ability to remain competitive will largely depend on our ongoing performance. CUSTOMER SUCCESS For many of our offerings, we provide support through channels including telephone, email, online and video chat, text messaging, our customer support websites, self-help assets embedded in our products, and online communities where consumers can share knowledge and product advice with each other. We also provide access to experts, through our TurboTax and QuickBooks Live offerings, who provide tax advice, tax preparation, and bookkeeping services. Our customer success staff predominantly consists of Intuit-employed and outsourced experts. We supplement with seasonal employees and additional outsourcing during periods of peak call volumes, such as during the tax return filing season or following a major product launch. We augment the services we provide with outsourced partnerships domestically and internationally. Most of our internationally outsourced small business customer success personnel are currently located in the Philippines and Portugal. We also source staff through our Prosperity Hub program, which is designed to spark economic prosperity in underserved communities. One part of this program is our socially responsible sourcing model, where we both directly and through customer success partner-employers, hire, train, and retain workers who deliver support and services for our customers. Self-help information is offered for free in-product and on our support websites for many of our offerings. Support alternatives and fees vary by product. For example, some product subscriptions receive 24x7 support and additional contact channel options. MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION Online Products and Services Our online offerings include QuickBooks Online, online payroll services, merchant payment processing and bill pay services, Mailchimps marketing automation and customer relationship management offerings, TurboTax Online, ProConnect Tax Online, consumer and professional electronic tax filing services, and Credit Karma offerings. We use public cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud Platform for most of our systems, networks, and databases used to operate these online offerings. Desktop Software and Supplies An increasing proportion of our desktop software customers choose to electronically download software, however, a portion of our customers continue to choose to purchase these products in the form of physical media. The key processes in manufacturing desktop software are manufacturing compact discs (CDs), printing boxes and related materials, and assembling and shipping the final products. When physical product is ordered, we typically ship the physical product within a few days of receiving an order, and backlog is minimal. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 10 Tables of Contents PRIVACY AND SECURITY OF CUSTOMER AND WORKFORCE INFORMATION AND TRANSACTIONS We are stewards of our customers data and have designed data stewardship principles to align our organization in collecting, using, and protecting such information. As we believe strongly in being good stewards of our customers data, we operate our program to comply with laws and regulations that govern our use, sharing, and protection of customers personal information, including, for example, laws with respect to financial services and the handling of tax data. We have established guidelines and practices to help ensure that customers and members of our workforce are aware of, and can control, how we use information about them. We also use privacy statements to provide notice to customers of our privacy practices, as well as provide them with the opportunity to furnish instructions with respect to use of their personal information. We participate in industry groups whose purpose is to develop or shape industry best practices, and to inform public policy for privacy and security. We use security safeguards to help protect the systems and the information that customers and members of our workforce give to us from loss, misuse, and unauthorized alteration. We use technical, logical, and procedural measures, which are designed to help detect and prevent fraud and misuse of customer information. Whenever customers transmit sensitive information to us, such as credit card information or tax return data through one of our websites or products, we follow current industry standards to encrypt the data as it is transmitted to us, and when we store it at rest. We routinely patch our systems with security updates and we work to protect our systems from unauthorized internal or external access using numerous commercially available computer security products, as well as internally developed security procedures and practices. GOVERNMENT REGULATION We are subject to federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations that affect how we operate. For example, our Consumer and ProTax segments are subject to federal, state, and international government requirements, including regulations related to the electronic filing of tax returns, the provision of tax preparer assistance, and the use and disclosure of customer information. Our Small Business & Self-Employed segment offers products and services to small and mid-market businesses and consumers, such as payroll, payments, and other financial service offerings, which are also subject to certain regulatory requirements. Our Credit Karma segment offers personal finance products and services to consumers, such as recommendations of credit card, loan, and insurance products and access to credit scores and reports, which are also subject to certain regulatory requirements. For additional information regarding the government regulations to which we are subject, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, including without limitation the risks under Legal and Compliance Risks. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success depends on the proprietary technology embodied in our offerings. We protect this proprietary technology by relying on a variety of intellectual property mechanisms, including copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. For example, we regularly file applications for patents, copyrights, and trademarks and service marks in order to protect intellectual property that we believe is important to our business. We hold a growing patent portfolio that we believe is important to Intuits overall competitive advantage, although we are not materially dependent on any one patent or particular group of patents in our portfolio at this time. We also have a number of registered trademarks that include Intuit, QuickBooks, Lacerte, TurboTax, QB, ProSeries, ProConnect, Credit Karma, and Mailchimp. We have registered these and other trademarks and service marks in the United States and, depending on the relevance of each brand to other markets, in many foreign countries. Most registrations can be renewed perpetually at 10-year intervals. We also license intellectual property from third parties for use in our products. Although our portfolio of patents is growing, the patents that have been issued to us could be determined to be invalid and may not be enforceable against competitive products in every jurisdiction. In addition, third parties have asserted and may, in the future, assert infringement claims against us and our customers. These claims and any litigation may result in invalidation of our proprietary rights or a finding of infringement along with an assessment of damages. Litigation, even if without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. HUMAN CAPITAL We consider our employees one of our four True North key stakeholders because they help us deliver for our customers, our shareholders, and the communities we serve. As of July 31, 2024, we had approximately 18,800 employees in 8 countries. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information about the restructuring plan announced in July 2024. During fiscal 2024, we employed on average approximately 10,800 seasonal employees from January to April primarily to support our Consumer segment customers during the peak of tax season. We believe our future success and growth will depend on our ability to attract and retain a qualified workforce in all areas of our business. Intuits overall workforce development strategies are developed and managed by our Chief People & Places Officer, who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. The Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of the Board of Directors has oversight with respect to company-wide organization and talent assessment, employee recruitment, Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 11 Tables of Contents engagement and retention, leadership development, management depth and strength assessment, workplace environment and culture, employee health and safety, and pay equity. Culture and Values In order to deliver on our mission to power prosperity around the world, we are guided by our company values as we strive to create a culture where employees can do the best work of their lives. Our values and culture are woven into our hiring and retention practices and are foundational to our ability to attract, retain, and advance top diverse talent. Our value of Integrity Without Compromisemeans valuing trust above all else, speaking the truth, and doing the right thing even when no one is looking. Our value of Courage means being bold and fearless in how we think and act, holding a high bar for performance, and valuing speed, with a bias for learning and action. Our value of Customer Obsession means falling in love with our customers problems and delivering solutions that delight our customers. Our value of Stronger Together means championing diversity, inclusion, and a respectful environment, thriving on diverse voices to challenge and inform decisions and delivering exceptional work so others can count on us. Our value of We Care and Give Back means we strive to be stewards of the future, strengthen the communities around us, and give everyone the opportunity to prosper. We provide eligible full-time employees paid time off that can be used to do volunteer work during normal work hours for vetted non-profits and donation matching up to an annual limit. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At the foundation of our culture is a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI). We believe that diversity is a fact, but treating people equitably and inclusively is a choice we make. To deliver for our customers, we seek to foster a workforce that is as diverse as the communities we serve. We are committed to creating a culture that reflects our values and helps achieve our mission of powering prosperity around the world. Our Chief Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Officer (CDEIO) leads a dedicated and specialized team in our DEI efforts. Our Compensation and Organizational Development Committee oversees Intuits DEI initiatives in support of organizational development. Intuits strategy is operationalized through the following elements: Goals and transparency: We have set goals that focus on our long-term vision of a workforce that reflects the diversity of our customers. These goals are aspirational and we do not set quotas or make employment decisions based on any legally protected characteristics. Our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Report (DEI Report) can be found at www.intuit.com/company/diversity/ and discloses our goals, progress on our goals, and certain diversity statistics of our workforce. The contents of the DEI Report are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Recruiting: Intuit has established practices to drive diversity, equity, and inclusion across our hiring practices, programs, and strategies. We have also invested in external partnerships to better engage with diverse talent and communities. Equity learning and development: Senior leaders are offered DEI workshops, including training on racial equity. We have manager and employee training and resources on topics such as unconscious bias, racial equity, and leading inclusively and a guide for managers on encouraging inclusive conversations. Equitable talent practices: We are committed to equitable talent practices that include those designed to ensure equitable pay. We continuously examine our performance evaluation practices, including promoting awareness of bias by managers and improving practices to ensure equal opportunity for high-performing employees to be promoted. Employee Resource Groups (ERGs): Intuit has established employee resource groups (ERGs) that provide a foundation for a workplace culture that is supportive, educational, and collaborative. Intuit ERGs offer a sense of community and give employees the chance to learn from role models, peers, and experts, all while aligning with our organizations overall vision. They also actively volunteer in their communities, which is an important part of their charters. Developing Talent and Training We are committed to creating a high-performance culture that consistently delivers for our customers, shareholders, and communities while providing an experience for our workforce that values leadership, innovation, and collaboration. We promote the development of all of our employees and provide employees with access to learning plans based on their needs and interests and the resources they need to grow, thrive, and reinvent themselves over time. We offer learning programs throughout the employee lifecycle, beginning with onboarding and the first year at Intuit, and continuing with ongoing career growth programs. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 12 Tables of Contents We are also invested in growing the capabilities of our managers and developing the leadership skills of our executives. Our teams design programs and resources, such as the Intuit Leadership Playbook, focused on leading with a clear vision, building a high-performance culture, and driving winning results for all of our stakeholders. All full-time employees have access to opportunities to develop and learn through company-sponsored learning paths and online courses on topics ranging from artificial intelligence to accelerating velocity in support of an employees ability to adapt to any work environment. We also offer multiple mentorship programs that match employees with a mentor who can support their career development. Employees set goals and measure progress through our goal setting tool and have opportunities to focus on growth both during performance assessment conversations and ongoing regular check-ins. Employee Listening and Engagement Listening and responding to our employees is at the core of our work. We value employee feedback and we leverage it to continuously improve the employee experience. We regularly collect, analyze, measure, and share insights about the sentiment of our workforce through multiple channels, including surveys, town halls with senior leadership, and other touchpoints, which helps to guide the work we do to support our employees. Total Rewards Our compensation philosophy aims to attract and retain top talent for today and the future. Intuits total target compensation includes base pay, a range of incentive plans that vary based on role, and stock-based awards all set at market-competitive levels. Incentive compensation plans are part of our pay-for-performance philosophy, including close alignment with Company performance that rewards top performers. Most employees are eligible for stock-based awards, which allows the majority of our employees to share in the Companys success. We also offer eligible employees a broad range of competitive benefits designed to protect and enhance their health, financial future, and overall well-being. These programs include health care, free mental health counseling and resources, retirement benefits, life and family support programs, and paid time off, including annual paid recharge days and family and parental leave. INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table shows Intuits executive officers and their areas of responsibility as of July 31, 2024. Their biographies follow the table. Name Age Position Sasan K. Goodarzi 56 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director Scott D. Cook 72 Founder and Director Sandeep S. Aujla 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Alex G. Balazs 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer Laura A. Fennell 63 Executive Vice President, Chief People & Places Officer Kerry J. McLean 60 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Mark Notarainni 54 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Consumer Group Marianna Tessel 57 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Small Business & Self-Employed Group Lauren D. Hotz 49 Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Mr. Goodarzi has been President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since January 2019 and previously served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Intuits Small Business Group since May 2016. He previously was Executive Vice President and General Manager of Intuits Consumer Tax Group from August 2015 through April 2016 and from August 2013 to July 2015 served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Consumer Tax Group. He served as Intuits Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from August 2011 to July 2013, having rejoined Intuit after serving as CEO of Nexant Inc., a privately held provider of intelligent grid software and clean energy solutions, beginning in November 2010. During his previous tenure at Intuit from 2004 to 2010, Mr. Goodarzi led several business units, including Intuit Financial Services and the professional tax division. Prior to joining Intuit, Mr. Goodarzi worked for Invensys, a global provider of industrial automation, transportation, and controls technology, serving as global president of the products group. He also held a number of senior leadership roles in the automation control division at Honeywell Inc. He serves on the board of Atlassian Corporation Plc and chairs the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee. Mr. Goodarzi holds a Bachelors degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Central Florida and a Masters degree in Business Administration from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. Mr. Cook, a founder of Intuit, has been an Intuit director since March 1984. He served as Intuits Chairman of the Board from February 1993 to July 1998. From April 1984 to April 1994, he served as Intuits President and Chief Executive Officer. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 13 Tables of Contents Mr. Cook served on the board of directors of The Procter & Gamble Company from 2000 to 2020. Mr. Cook was also a director of eBay Inc. from 1998 to 2015. Mr. Cook holds a Bachelors degree in Economics and Mathematics from the University of Southern California and a Masters degree in Business Administration from Harvard Business School. Mr. Aujla has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2023. He served as Intuits Senior Vice President of Finance, Small Business & Self-Employed Group and Technology Organization, from January 2019 to July 2023, and Vice President, Finance, Small Business & Self-Employed Group, from June 2015 to January 2019. Prior to joining Intuit, Mr. Aujla held various finance leadership roles at Visa, and investment banking roles at Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. Mr. Aujla holds a Bachelors degree in Economics from San Francisco State University and a Masters degree in Business Administration from the University of Virginia Darden School of Business. Mr. Balazs has been Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since September 2023. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Architect from April 2021 to September 2023 and Senior Vice President of Data Engineering from August 2018 to April 2021. Mr. Balazs held various other roles since he joined Intuit in October 1999. Mr. Balazs holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Kettering University. Ms. Fennell has been Executive Vice President, Chief People & Places Officer since August 2018 and previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from August 2015 to July 2018, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from February 2007 to July 2018, and Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from April 2004 to February 2007. Prior to joining Intuit, Ms. Fennell spent nearly eleven years at Sun Microsystems, Inc., most recently as Vice President of Corporate Legal Resources, as well as Acting General Counsel. Prior to joining Sun, she was an associate attorney at Wilson Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati PC. Ms. Fennell holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from California State University, Chico and a Juris Doctor from Santa Clara University. Ms. McLean has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2020. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from August 2018 to July 2020 and Vice President, Deputy General Counsel from August 2010 to July 2018. She joined Intuit in 2006 as Director, Deputy General Counsel. Prior to joining Intuit, Ms. McLean spent over six years at Wind River Systems, Inc., most recently as the Director of Legal. Prior to joining Wind River, she was an associate at Howard, Rice, Nemerovski, Canady, Falk & Rabkin PC(now Arnold & Porter Kaye Scholer LLP). Ms. McLean serves on the board of directors of the California Minority Counsel Program. Ms. McLean holds a Bachelors degree in International Relations from University of California, Davis and a Juris Doctor from University of California, Hastings College of Law (now University of California College of the Law, San Francisco). Mr. Notarainni has been Executive Vice President and General Manager of Intuits Consumer Group since August 2023. He previously served as Executive Vice President of Customer Success for five years. Mr. Notarainni joined Intuit in February 2009 as a director of contact centers and spent over eight years as vice president of Customer Care and Services for Intuits Consumer Group. Before joining Intuit, he held leadership positions at NCR Corp, Dell, and Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Notarainni holds a Bachelors degree in Finance from Michigan State University. Ms. Tessel has been Executive Vice President and General Manager of Intuits Small Business & Self-Employed Group since September 2023. She previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer from January 2019 to September 2023 and Chief Product Development Officer of Intuits Small Business & Self-Employed Group from June 2017 to December 2018. Prior to joining Intuit, Ms. Tessel worked for Docker Inc., a software containerization platform, serving as Senior Vice President of Engineering and Executive Vice President of Strategic Development from November 2014 to June 2017, and VMware, which provides cloud computing and related services, from June 2008 through November 2014, most recently serving as Vice President of Engineering. She has served on the board of directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. since March 2021. Ms. Tessel holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Computing from Technion Israel Institute of Technology. Ms. Hotz has been Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since August 2022, and previously held roles as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from February 2022 to July 2022 and Vice President and Corporate Controller from August 2020 to January 2022. She previously served as the Director, Corporate Accounting from January 2014 to July 2020. Since joining Intuit in 2004, Ms. Hotz has held a variety of accounting leadership roles at the Company. From 2001 to 2004, Ms. Hotz served in corporate controller and finance functions at other public companies. She began her career in public accounting at Coopers & Lybrand LLP (now PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP) from 1996 to 1998, and RSM McGladrey & Pullen LLP (now RSM US LLP) from 1998 to 2001. Ms. Hotz is a California Certified Public Accountant (inactive) and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Washington University in St. Louis. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 14 Tables of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our corporate website, www.intuit.com, provides materials for investors and information relating to Intuits corporate governance. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. We file reports required of public companies with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and other reports, and amendments to these reports. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website all of the reports we file with or furnish to the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished. Copies of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Intuit Inc., P.O. Box 7850, Mountain View, California 94039-7850, calling 650-944-6000, or emailing investor_relations@intuit.com. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 15 Tables of Contents ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, many of which could cause our future results to be materially different than we presently anticipate. Below, we describe significant factors, events and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky, categorized solely for ease of reference as strategic, operational, legal and compliance, and financial risks. The following events and consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, reputation and credit rating, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. We could also be affected by other events, factors or uncertainties that are presently unknown to us or that we do not currently consider to present significant risks to our business. These risks may be amplified by the effects of global developments and conditions or events, including macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions, which have caused significant global economic instability and uncertainty. STRATEGIC RISKS We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results. We face intense competition in all of our businesses, and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups. Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, successfully use and deploy new technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) that may reduce customer demand for our products or services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services. In addition, we face competition from existing companies with large established consumer user bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses, tax and personal financial management customers. We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free and low cost offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, payments and consumer finance platform businesses. We have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract and retain customers as effectively as our competitors with different business models. In addition, other providers of free offerings may provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for our products and services may elect to use our competitors free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, and harm our ability to acquire and retain customers. Our consumer tax business also faces significant, increasing competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities implementing revenue-raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense. These or similar programs have been and may continue to be introduced or expanded in the future, which may change the voluntary compliance tax system in ways that could cause us to lose customers and revenue. For example, the IRS has stated that it will make a free direct filing system, which it piloted in 2024, a permanent option in 2025 and will explore ways to expand eligibility for the program, including partnering with more states. Additionally, the legacy IRS Free File Program enables the IRS to offer free commercial tax software directly to qualifying taxpayers, and taxpayer adoption of this program could expand with increased awareness of and government support for the program. Through these or other programs, federal and state governments are or could become publicly funded direct competitors of the U.S. tax services industry and of Intuit. Government funded services that curtail or eliminate the role of taxpayers in preparing their own taxes could potentially have material and adverse revenue implications on us. Future revenue growth depends upon our ability to adapt to technological change and successfully extend our platform, introduce new and enhanced products, features, services and business models. We operate in industries that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. To meet the evolving needs and expectations of our customers and partners and attract and retain top technical talent, we must continue to innovate, develop and extend our platform, introduce new products and features, and enhance our ability to solve customer problems with emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence. If we are not able to do this successfully, we may face a competitive disadvantage. We have and will continue to devote significant resources to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence. There can be no assurance that we or our customers will realize the expected benefits from these investments. Legislation or regulatory changes in these areas may mandate changes in our products that make them less attractive to users and hinder our ability to leverage emerging technologies and build out our platform capabilities. Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services, including customers who use our free consumer tax products and whose tax scenarios evolve in subsequent years to require paid services. Encouraging customers to continue using our products in successive years can become more challenging unless new product releases provide features and functionality that have meaningful incremental value. As we continue to introduce and expand our new business models our customers may not perceive value in the additional benefits and services we offer and may choose not to pay for those additional benefits or we Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 16 Tables of Contents may be unsuccessful in increasing customer adoption of these offerings or our risk profile may change, resulting in loss of revenue. When customers consent to the use of their data across our platform, we work to provide additional benefits to them through our existing offerings and the creation of new products and services. The growth of our business depends, in part, on our ability to successfully provide customers value in this way. If we are unable to clearly demonstrate the value of these new or upgraded products or services, our ability to build new data-driven products and services may be limited and our revenues may be harmed. In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on offerings that do not ultimately succeed in their markets. We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past. If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed. We have also invested, and in the future, expect to invest in new business models, technologies, geographies, strategies and initiatives. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including a rapidly changing regulatory environment, distraction of management from current operations, expenses associated with the initiatives, inadequate return on investments, and social or ethical scrutiny. Because these new initiatives are inherently risky, they may not be successful and may harm our financial condition, operating results, or reputation. We rely on intellectual property in our products and services. Many of our products and services include our own intellectual property, as well as the intellectual property of third parties, which we license under agreements that may need to be renewed or renegotiated from time to time. We may not be able to obtain licenses to these third-party technologies or content on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use this intellectual property in our products and services, we may not be able to provide the affected offerings, and customers who are currently using the affected product may be disrupted, which may in turn harm our future financial results, damage our brand, and result in customer loss. Also, we and our customers have been and may continue to be subject to infringement claims as a result of the third-party intellectual property incorporated in our offerings, including through our use of AI. Although we try to mitigate this risk and we may not be ultimately liable for any potential infringement, pending claims require us to use significant resources, require management attention and could result in loss of customers. Some of our offerings include third-party software that is licensed under open source licenses, some of which may include a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we make available, or grant licenses to, any modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to mitigate these risks, we cannot be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source may not be eliminated and, if not properly addressed, may harm our business. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, domain names and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. The efforts that we take to protect our proprietary rights may not always be sufficient or effective. In addition, there is uncertainty about the validity and enforceability of intellectual property rights that may result from our use of generative AI. Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, our brand, and our ability to compete. Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming. Current U.S. laws that prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of many other countries provide very little protection. We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces. Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to lessen the impact of piracy and engage in efforts to educate consumers and public policy leaders on these issues and cooperate with industry groups in their efforts to combat piracy, we expect piracy to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased expenses. Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands. Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands and platform strategy is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and services and is an important element in attracting new customers and expanding our business with existing customers. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to events or activities attributed to us, members of our workforce, agents, third parties we rely on, or our users, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Perceived social harm or unfairness of outcomes relating to the use of new and evolving technologies such as AI in our offerings, may result in reputational harm and liability, and may cause us to incur additional research and development costs to resolve such issues. Our brand value also depends on our ability to provide secure and trustworthy products and services, as well as our ability to protect and use our customers data in a manner that meets their expectations. In addition, a security incident that results in unauthorized disclosure of our customers sensitive data could cause material reputational harm. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products or services and thus have an Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 17 Tables of Contents adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of the brands and could also reduce our stock price. Our aspirations and disclosures related to environment, social, and governance (ESG) matters expose us to risks that could adversely affect our reputation and performance. We have public ESG commitments, including our goals to increase the diversity of our workforce, create and prepare individuals for jobs and have a positive impact on the climate. Our ability to achieve these goals is subject to numerous risks that may be outside of our control, including our ability to recruit, develop and retain talent, the evolving ESG regulatory requirements, and the ability of our suppliers to meet our sustainability, diversity and other standards. In addition, standards for tracking and reporting ESG matters continue to evolve and we may not be able to implement new and changing standards in ways that meet the expectations of all of our stakeholders. Our failure or perceived failure to achieve our ESG goals or maintain ESG practices that meet evolving stakeholder expectations could harm our reputation, adversely impact our ability to attract and retain employees or customers, and expose us to increased scrutiny from the investment community and enforcement authorities. Our reputation also may be harmed by negative perceptions that our customers, employees and other stakeholders may have about our action or inaction on social, ethical, or political issues. Our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business, may involve increased expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions. We have acquired and may continue to acquire companies, products, technologies and talent that complement our strategic direction, both in and outside the United States. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: inability to successfully integrate the acquired technology, data assets and operations into our business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures; inability to realize synergies or anticipated benefits within the expected time frame or at all; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; challenges retaining the key employees, customers, resellers and other business partners of the acquired operation; the internal control environment of an acquired entity may not be consistent with our standards or with regulatory requirements, and may require significant time and resources to align or rectify; unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including product or service quality issues, security policies, standards, and practices, intellectual property issues and legal contingencies; failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology and any resulting impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; risks associated with businesses we acquire or invest in, which may differ from or be more significant than the risks our other businesses face; in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and to the extent we use debt to fund acquisitions or for other purposes, our interest expense and leverage will increase significantly, and to the extent we issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders percentage ownership and earnings per share will be diluted. We have divested and may in the future divest certain assets or businesses that no longer fit with our strategic direction or growth targets. Divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: inability to find potential buyers on favorable terms; failure to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to buyers; requirements that we retain or indemnify buyers against certain liabilities and obligations; the possibility that we will become subject to third-party claims arising out of such divestiture; challenges in identifying and separating the intellectual property, systems and data to be divested from the intellectual property, systems and data that we wish to retain; inability to reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business; challenges in collecting the proceeds from any divestiture; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; loss of key employees who leave us as a result of a divestiture; and if customers or partners of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, or the new owners do not handle the customer data with the same level of care, our other businesses may be adversely Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 18 Tables of Contents affected, to the extent that these customers or partners also purchase other products offered by us or otherwise conduct business with our retained business. In addition, any acquisition or divestiture that we announce may not be completed if closing conditions are not satisfied. Evolving regulatory expectations may make it more challenging to obtain any required regulatory approval. Because acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky, our transactions may not be successful and may, in some cases, harm our operating results or financial condition. In particular, if we are unable to successfully operate together with any company that we acquire to achieve shared growth opportunities or combine reporting or other processes within the expected time frame or at all, there may be a material and adverse effect on the benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the acquisition, and we could experience additional costs or loss of revenue. Moreover, adverse changes in market conditions and other factors, including those listed above, may cause an acquisition to be dilutive to Intuits operating earnings per share for a period of time. Any dilution of our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share could cause the price of shares of Intuit Common Stock to decline or grow at a reduced rate. OPERATIONAL RISKS Security incidents, improper access to or disclosure of our data or customers data, or other cyberattacks on our systems could harm our reputation, business, and financial condition. We host, collect, use and retain large amounts of sensitive and personal customer and workforce data, including credit card information, tax return information, bank account numbers, credit report information, login credentials and passwords, personal and business financial data and transactions data, social security numbers and payroll information, as well as our confidential, nonpublic business information. Although we expend significant resources to implement security protections designed to shield this data against potential theft and security incidents, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are increasingly likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, ransomware or other malware, worms, social engineering, malicious software programs, insider threats, denial-of-service attacks and other cybersecurity threats that have in the past, and could in the future, result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of sensitive and personal data of our customers and our workforce, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our data, software, and systems. Cybersecurity incidents can be caused by malicious third parties, acting alone or in groups, or more sophisticated organizations, including nation-states or state-sponsored organizations, and the risks could be elevated in connection with significant armed conflicts, acts of war or terrorism. Customers who fail to update their systems, continue to run software that we no longer support, fail to install security patches on a timely basis or inadequately use security controls create vulnerabilities and make it more difficult for us to detect and prevent these kinds of attacks. We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products, and there may be vulnerabilities in open source software that make it susceptible to cyberattacks. In addition, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive information change frequently and, as technologies like AI develop rapidly, malicious third parties are using these technologies to create new sophisticated attack methods that are increasingly automated, targeted and coordinated and more difficult to defend against. We have and may in the future be a more frequent target of cyberattacks because cyber-criminals tend to focus their efforts on well-known offerings that are popular among customers and hold sensitive personal or financial information. Further, the security measures that we implement may not be able to prevent unauthorized access to our products and our customers account data. Malicious third parties have in the past, and may in the future, be able to fraudulently induce members of our workforce, customers, vendors, partners, or users by social engineering means, such as email phishing, to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our systems. Unauthorized access to or disclosure of customer data may occur due to inadequate use of security controls by our customers or our workforce. Accounts created with weak or recycled passwords could allow cyber-attackers to gain access to customer data. Unauthorized persons could gain access to customer accounts if customers do not maintain effective access controls of their systems and software. Inadvertent exposure of data or access to our systems may also be caused by members of our workforce, including by their error or use of AI. Criminals may also use stolen identity information obtained outside of our systems to gain unauthorized access to our customers data. We have experienced such instances in the past and as the accessibility of stolen identity information increases, generally, we may experience further instances of unauthorized access to our systems through the use of stolen identity information of our customers or our workforce in the future. Further, our customers may choose to use the same login credentials across multiple products and services unrelated to our products. Such customers login credentials may be stolen from products offered by third-party service providers unrelated to us and the stolen identity information may be used by a malicious third party to access our products, which could result in disclosure of confidential information. In addition, our hybrid workplace model, where our workforce spends a portion of their time working remotely, increases the potential attack surfaces and introduces operational complexity that exacerbates our security-related risks. Further, because we have created an ecosystem where customers can have one identity across multiple Intuit products, a security incident may give access to increased amounts of customer data. From time to time, we detect, or receive notices from customers or public or private agencies that they have detected, actual or perceived vulnerabilities in our infrastructure, our software or third-party software components that are distributed with our products or fraudulent activity by unauthorized persons utilizing our products with stolen customer identity information. The existence of such vulnerabilities or fraudulent activity, even if they do not result in a security breach, may undermine customer confidence as well as the confidence of government agencies that regulate our offerings. Such perceived vulnerabilities could also seriously harm our business by Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 19 Tables of Contents tarnishing our reputation and brand and limiting the adoption of our products and services and could cause our stock price to decline. In some cases, such vulnerabilities may not be immediately detected, which could exacerbate the risk of a security incident and the related effects on our businesses. While we maintain cybersecurity insurance, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities described herein. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in disclosure of confidential information, loss of customer confidence in our products, possible litigation, material harm to our reputation and financial condition, disruption of our or our customers business operations, and a decline in our stock price. Additionally, Credit Karma is subject to an order issued in 2014 by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) that, among other things, requires maintenance of a comprehensive security program relating to the development and management of new and existing products and services and biennial independent security assessments for 20 years from the date of the order. Credit Karmas failure to fulfill the requirements of the FTCs order could result in fines, penalties, enforcement inquiries, investigations and claims, and negatively impact our business and reputation. A cybersecurity incident affecting the third parties we rely on could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential information and significantly damage our reputation. We depend on a number of third parties, including vendors, developers and partners who are critical to our business. We or our customers may grant access to customer data to these third parties to help deliver customer benefits, or to host certain of our and our customers' sensitive and personal data. In addition, we share sensitive, nonpublic business information (including, for example, materials relating to financial, business and legal strategies) with other vendors in the ordinary course of business. While we conduct background checks of our workforce, conduct reviews of partners, developers and vendors and use commercially available technologies to limit access to systems and data, it is possible that malicious third parties may misrepresent their intended use of data or may circumvent our controls, resulting in accidental or intentional disclosure or misuse of our customer or workforce data. Further, while we conduct due diligence on the security and business controls of our third-party partners, we may not have the ability to effectively monitor or oversee the implementation of these control measures. Malicious third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business controls or exploit vulnerabilities that may exist in these controls, resulting in the disclosure or misuse of sensitive business and personal customer or workforce information and data. In addition, malicious actors may attempt to use the information technology supply chain to compromise our systems by, for example, introducing malware through software updates. This risk is exacerbated with the advancement of technologies like AI, which malicious third parties are using to create new, sophisticated and more frequent attacks on our third-party partners. A security incident involving third parties we rely on may have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including disclosure of sensitive customer or workforce data, or confidential or competitively sensitive information regarding our business, including intellectual property and other proprietary data; make our products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity; cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems; result in possible litigation, fines, penalties and damages; result in loss of customer confidence; cause material harm to our reputation and brands; lead to further regulation and oversight by federal or state agencies; cause adverse financial condition; and result in a reduced stock price. Concerns about the current cybersecurity environment, generally, could deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services and damage our reputation. The continued occurrence of cybersecurity incidents affecting governments, businesses and consumers in general indicates that we operate in an external environment where cybersecurity incidents are becoming increasingly common. If the global cybersecurity environment worsens, and there are increased instances of security breaches of third-party offerings where consumers data and sensitive information is compromised, consumers may be less willing to use online offerings, particularly offerings like ours in which customers often share sensitive financial data. Additionally, political uncertainty and military actions may subject us and our service providers to heightened risks of security incidents. In addition, the increased availability of data obtained as a result of cybersecurity incidents affecting third-party offerings could make our own products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity. Even if our products are not affected directly by such incidents, any such incident could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether. If we are unable to effectively combat the increasing amount and sophistication of fraudulent activities by malicious third parties, we may suffer losses, which may be substantial, and lose the confidence of our customers and government agencies and our revenues and earnings may be harmed. Many of the industries in which we operate have been experiencing an increasing amount of fraudulent activities by malicious third parties, and those fraudulent activities are becoming increasingly sophisticated. We have been and may from time to time become targeted by such malicious third parties engaging in fraudulent activities. Any such fraudulent activities may adversely impact our tax, payroll, payments, lending, marketing automation and personal financial management businesses, and the risk is heightened when our workforce is working remotely under our hybrid work model. In addition to any losses that may result from such fraud, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence by our customers or by governmental agencies in our ability to prevent fraudulent activity may seriously harm our business and damage our brand. If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer the affected services, or these services Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 20 Tables of Contents may otherwise be adversely impacted, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our business, earnings, and revenue. As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, our fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate. Accordingly, we have implemented and may continue to implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products. These control mechanisms could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings. If we fail to process transactions effectively or fail to adequately protect against disputed or potential fraudulent activities, our business may be harmed. Our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis, especially in our money and personal financial management businesses. Despite our efforts to ensure that effective processing systems and controls are in place to handle transactions appropriately, it is possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated due to fraud. The likelihood of any such error or misappropriation is magnified as we increase the volume and speed of the transactions we process. If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results. In our payments processing service business, if a disputed transaction between a merchant and its customer is not resolved in favor of the merchant, we may be required to pay those amounts to the payment or credit card network and these payments may exceed the amount of the customer reserves established to make such payments. Business interruption or failure of our information technology and communication systems may impair the availability of our products and services, which may damage our reputation and harm our future financial results. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our products and our underlying technical infrastructure. As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communications systems and those of our external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. We have designed a significant portion of our software and computer systems to utilize data processing and storage capabilities provided by public cloud providers. If any public cloud service that we use is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may not be able to access certain of our cloud products or features, which could significantly impact our operations, business, and financial results. Failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers, may result in interruptions in our service and loss of data or processing capabilities, all of which may cause a loss in customers, refunds of product fees, material harm to our reputation and operating results. Our tax businesses must effectively handle extremely heavy customer demand during critical peak periods. We face significant risks in maintaining adequate service levels during these peak periods when we have historically derived a substantial portion of our overall revenue from the tax businesses. Any interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax season, particularly during a peak period, could result in significantly decreased revenue, lost customers, unexpected refunds of customer charges, negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and other service providers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests and host certain online activities. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems may prevent us or our service providers from accepting and fulfilling customer orders or cause company and customer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and expand our network security and other information systems as well as our high-availability capabilities are costly, and problems with the design or implementation of system enhancements may harm our business and our results of operations. Our business operations, information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, effects of climate change, human error, malicious attacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malware, computer denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks, public health emergencies and other events beyond our control. For example, we operate under a hybrid workplace model where our workforce spends a portion of their time working in our offices and a portion of their time working remotely. This model has introduced risks of disruptions to our operations, which may impair our ability to perform critical functions or could make it considerably more difficult to develop, enhance and support our products and services. In addition, since our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults, our recovery in the event of a major earthquake or other catastrophic event may require us to expend significant time and resources and may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Further, the adverse effects of any such adverse event would be exacerbated if experienced at the same time as another unexpected and adverse event. In the event of a major natural or man-made disaster, our insurance coverage may not completely compensate us for our losses and our future financial results may be materially harmed. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 21 Tables of Contents We regularly invest resources to update and improve our internal information technology systems and software platforms. Should our investments not succeed, or if delays or other issues with new or existing internal technology systems and software platforms disrupt our operations, our business could be harmed. We rely on our network infrastructure, data hosting, public cloud and software-as-a-service providers, and internal technology systems for many of our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet existing needs, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our business and customers. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in updating and upgrading our systems and architecture, we may experience outages, defects or other performance problems, and may not be able to deliver certain offerings and develop new offerings and enhancements that we need to remain competitive. Such improvements and upgrades are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or may uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in outages, disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue or damage to our reputation. If we are unable to develop, manage and maintain critical third-party business relationships, our business may be adversely affected. Our growth is increasingly dependent on the strength of our business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, manage and maintain new and existing relationships with third-party partners. We rely on various third-party partners, including software and service providers, platforms, suppliers, credit reporting bureaus, vendors, manufacturers, distributors, accountants, contractors, financial institutions, core processors, licensing partners and development partners, among others, in many areas of our business in order to deliver our offerings and operate our business. Credit Karma generates revenue from its relationships with financial institution and other partners, which are subject to particular risks that affect their willingness to offer their products on Credit Karma's platform, such as adverse economic conditions, evolving limitations on their capacity to offer products on the platform, the introduction of competing products on their platforms, and an increasing complexity in the regulatory environment. We also rely on third parties to support the operation of our business by maintaining our physical facilities, equipment, power systems and infrastructure. In certain instances, these third-party relationships are sole source or limited source relationships and can be difficult to replace or substitute depending on the level of integration of the third partys products or services into, or with, our offerings and/or the general availability of such third partys products and services. In addition, there may be few or no alternative third-party providers or vendors in the market. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately retain third-party contractors engaged to help us operate our business. Additionally, the business operations of our third-party partners and the third-party partners who support them have been and could continue to be disrupted, including as a result of uncertain macroeconomic conditions and global health crises, such as pandemics and endemics. If our third-party partners are unable to help us operate our business or prevent us from delivering critical services to our customers or accepting and fulfilling customer orders, our business and financial results may be negatively impacted. The failure of third parties to provide acceptable and high quality products, services and technologies or to update their products, services and technologies may result in a disruption to our business operations and our customers, which may reduce our revenues and profits, cause us to lose customers and damage our reputation. Alternative arrangements and services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner. In particular, we have relationships with banks, credit unions and other financial institutions that support certain critical services we offer to our customers. If macroeconomic conditions or other factors cause any of these institutions to fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services or institute cost-cutting efforts, or give rise to speculation relating to such events, we may be unable to offer those services to our customers, in which case our business and financial results may suffer. For example, if one of the counterparty financial institutions with whom we have significant deposits were to become insolvent, placed into receivership, or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover our assets from such counterparty may be limited, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Although we have strict standards for our suppliers and business partners to comply with the law and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data use and security, environmental compliance, intellectual property licensing and other applicable regulatory and compliance requirements, we cannot control their day-to-day practices. Any violation of laws or implementation of practices regarded as unethical could result in supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. We increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apples App Store and Googles Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings. Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers. Any adverse changes by these third parties could adversely affect our financial results. Competition for our key employees is intense and we may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our strategic objectives. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled employees, including members of our executive team, and those in technical and other key positions. Experienced individuals with skill sets in software as a service, Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 22 Tables of Contents financial technology, mobile technologies, data science, artificial intelligence and data security are in high demand and we have faced and will continue to face intense competition globally to attract and retain a diverse workforce with these and other skills that are critical to our success. This is especially the case in California and India where a significant number of our employees are located. The compensation and incentives we have available to attract, retain and motivate employees may not meet the expectations of current and prospective employees as the competition for talent intensifies. For example, our equity awards may become less effective if our stock price decreases or increases at a slower rate than our talent competitors. In addition, our ability to issue significant additional equity to attract or retain employees may be limited by the risks of dilution to our existing stockholders and the related increase in our expenses. We may experience higher compensation costs to retain and recruit senior management and highly-skilled employees that may not be offset by improved productivity or revenue. Other factors may make it more challenging for us to continue to successfully attract, retain and develop key employees. For example, current and prospective employees may seek new or different opportunities based on mobility, location flexibility in our hybrid work model, achieving our publicly stated workforce diversity aspirations or other reputational factors. Uncertainty in the development, deployment, and use of artificial intelligence in our platform and products and by our customers may result in harm to our business and reputation. We continue to build and invest in systems and tools that incorporate AI-based technologies, including generative AI for customers, experts, and our workforce. We also use third parties to support this work. As with many innovations, AI presents risks, uncertainties, and challenges that could adversely impact our business. The development, adoption, and use for generative AI technologies are still in their early stages, and ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by Intuit or third-party developers or vendors could result in unintended consequences. For example, AI algorithms that we use may be flawed or may be based on datasets that are biased or insufficient. In addition, any latency, disruption, or failure in our AI systems or infrastructure could result in delays or errors in our offerings. Developing, testing, and deploying resource-intensive AI systems may require additional investment and increase our costs. There also may be real or perceived social harm, unfairness, or other outcomes that undermine public confidence in the use and deployment of AI. In addition, third parties may deploy AI technologies in a manner that reduces customer demand for our products and services. Any of the foregoing may result in decreased demand for our products or harm to our business, results of operations or reputation. The legal and regulatory landscape surrounding AI technologies is rapidly evolving and uncertain including in the areas of intellectual property, cybersecurity, and privacy and data protection. In addition, there is uncertainty around the validity and enforceability of intellectual property rights related to our use, development, and deployment of AI. Compliance with new or changing laws, regulations or industry standards relating to AI may impose significant operational costs and may limit our ability to develop, deploy or use AI technologies. Failure to appropriately respond to this evolving landscape may result in legal liability, regulatory action, or brand and reputational harm. If we experience significant product accuracy or quality problems or delays in product launches, it may harm our revenue, earnings and reputation. Our customers rely on the accuracy of our offerings. All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate unpredictable, ambiguous, and potentially late tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline. Due to the complexity of our products and the condensed development cycles under which we operate, our products may contain errors that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software or result in incorrect calculations. The complexity of the tax laws on which our products are based may also make it difficult for us to consistently deliver offerings that contain the features, functionality and level of accuracy that our customers expect. When we encounter problems, we may be required to modify our code, work with state tax administrators to communicate with affected customers, assist customers with amendments, distribute patches to customers who have already purchased the product and recall or repackage existing product inventory in our distribution channels. If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products either late in our development cycle or after release, it may cause us to delay our product launch date or suspend product availability until such issues can be fixed. Any major defects, launch delays or product suspensions may lead to loss of customers and revenue, negative publicity, customer and employee dissatisfaction, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, and increased operating expenses, such as inventory replacement costs, legal fees or other payments, including those resulting from our accuracy guarantee in our tax preparation products. For example, an error in our tax products could cause a compliance error for taxpayers, including the over or underpayment of their federal or state tax liability. While our accuracy guarantee commits us to reimburse penalties and interest paid by customers due solely to calculation errors in our tax preparation products, such errors may result in additional burdens on third parties that we may need to address or that may cause us to suspend the availability of our products until such errors are addressed. This could also affect our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results. Further, as we develop our platform to connect people to experts, such as connecting TurboTax customers with tax experts through our TurboTax Live offering, or connecting QuickBooks customers with bookkeepers through our QuickBooks Live offering, we face the risk that these experts may provide advice that is erroneous, ineffective or otherwise unsuitable. Any such deficiency in the advice given by these experts may cause harm to our customers, a loss of customer confidence in our offerings or harm to our reputation or financial results. Moreover, as we continue to incorporate emerging technologies, like AI, into our offerings, they may not function as designed or have unintended Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 23 Tables of Contents consequences, any of which could subject us to new or enhanced competitive harm, legal liability, regulatory scrutiny or reputational harm. Our international operations are subject to increased risks which may harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand into international markets, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: different or more restrictive privacy, data protection, data localization, and other laws that could require us to make changes to our products, services and operations, such as mandating that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, and foreign currency exchange restrictions; geopolitical events, including natural disasters or severe weather events (including those caused or exacerbated by climate change), acts of war and terrorism (including the conflict in the Middle East) and any related military, political or economic responses, and public health emergencies, including divergent governmental responses thereto affecting the jurisdictions in which we operate or maintain a workforce or facilities; compliance with sanctions and import or export regulations, including those arising from the Russia-Ukraine war; compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and laws and regulations of other jurisdictions prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments; economic uncertainties relating to European sovereign and other debt; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; and risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws. Violations of the rapidly evolving and complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions or sanctions against us, our officers or our broader workforce, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, we cannot be sure that our workforce, contractors and agents are in compliance with our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and may result in harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition. Climate change may have an impact on our business. While we seek to mitigate our business risks associated with climate change by establishing robust environmental programs and partnering with organizations that are also focused on mitigating their own climate-related risks, we recognize that there are inherent climate-related risks wherever business is conducted. Any of our primary workplace locations may be vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. For example, our offices globally have historically experienced, and are projected to continue to experience, climate-related events at an increasing frequency, including drought, water scarcity, heat waves, cold waves, wildfires and resultant air quality impacts and power shutoffs associated with wildfire prevention. Furthermore, it is more difficult to mitigate the impact of these events on our employees to the extent they work from home. Changing market dynamics, global policy developments and the increasing frequency and impact of extreme weather events on critical infrastructure in the U.S. and elsewhere have the potential to disrupt our business, the business of our third-party suppliers and the business of our customers, and may cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and additional costs to maintain or resume operations. We also expect to face increasing regulatory requirements and regulatory scrutiny related to climate matters, resulting in higher associated compliance costs. Additionally, failure to uphold, meet or make timely forward progress against our public commitments and goals related to climate action could adversely affect our reputation with suppliers and customers, financial performance or ability to recruit and retain talent. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 24 Tables of Contents LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Increasing and changing regulation of our businesses may adversely affect our ability to operate or harm our operating results. We are subject to an increasing number of local, state, federal, and international laws, regulations, and rules and standards. These relate to, without limitation, labor, advertising and marketing, tax, financial services, artificial intelligence, data privacy and security, electronic funds transfer, money transmission, lending, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, insurance, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, antitrust and competition, environmental, health and safety, and other regulated activities. These laws and regulations are not consistent across jurisdictions and are subject to change and evolving interpretations, and we expect significant new regulations will affect emerging technologies, such as AI. As we expand our products and services and evolve our business models, we have, and may in the future, become subject to additional changing regulations and heightened regulatory scrutiny. Our ability to adopt emerging technologies, including AI, and to innovate for our customers and operate our business may be harmed by the uncertainty and complexity created by the regulatory environment. For example, in May 2024, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the Artificial Intelligence Act (AI Act) that will regulate AI systems that affect individuals located in the EU. Compliance with the AI Act, and similar emerging laws, may add significant costs to our business and may require us to change certain business practices to comply. In addition, some of our offerings, such as our lending and payments products, require licenses to operate. Our inability to obtain or maintain a license, or to comply with current or new license requirements, may materially harm our ability to operate in specific jurisdictions or subject us to regulatory fines or penalties. The tax preparation industry continues to receive heightened attention from federal and state governments. New legislation, regulation, public policy considerations, changes in the cybersecurity environment, litigation by the government or private entities, changes to or new interpretations of existing laws may result in greater oversight of the tax preparation industry, restrict the types of products and services that we can offer or the prices we can charge, or otherwise cause us to change the way we operate our tax businesses or offer our tax products and services. We may not be able to respond quickly to such regulatory, legislative and other developments, and these changes may in turn increase our cost of doing business and limit our revenue opportunities. In addition, if our practices are not consistent with new interpretations of existing laws, we may become subject to lawsuits, penalties, and other liabilities that did not previously apply. We are also required to comply with a variety of state revenue agency standards in order to successfully operate our tax preparation and electronic filing services. Changes in state-imposed requirements by one or more of the states, including the required use of specific technologies or technology standards, may significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our customers and may prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely manner. Any perceived or actual failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and rules could negatively impact our reputation and expose us to legal liability, fines, penalties, or require us to change our products or business operations. In addition, evolving laws and regulations may require us to change our business practices or modify our compliance programs in order to continue operating our businesses. Any of the foregoing may adversely affect our ability to operate and may harm our results of operations. Complex and evolving privacy and data protection regulations or changing customer expectations could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties or increased cost of operations or otherwise harm our business. Regulations related data privacy, cybersecurity, the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of data, and the use of AI are evolving. Many jurisdictions in which we operate globally have enacted, or are in the process of enacting, data privacy legislation or regulations aimed at creating and enhancing individual privacy rights. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) regulates the collection, use, and retention of personal information by our offerings in the EU. In addition, in the absence of a unified federal privacy standard, a growing number of U.S. states have enacted or introduced data privacy laws and regulations. Several countries have established specific legal requirements for cross-border data transfers and governmental authorities and privacy advocates around the world continue to propose new regulatory actions concerning data protection. Moreover, several jurisdictions are considering regulatory frameworks for AI that implicate data protection laws. In our efforts to meet the various data privacy regulations that apply to us, we have made and continue to make certain operational changes to our products, business practices, and use of certain third party tools and vendors. Additionally, customer sensitivity to privacy continues to increase and our privacy statements and practices may create additional customer expectations about the collection, use, and sharing of personal information. In addition, the evolution of global privacy treaties and frameworks has created compliance uncertainty and increased complexity. For example, the judicial invalidation of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks that we relied on to transfer data has created additional compliance challenges for the transfer of EU personal data to the U.S. While the European Commission recently issued a decision that allows personal data to flow from the European Union to U.S. companies, the future of this framework is uncertain because it faces legal challenges in the European courts. Each of these privacy, security and data protection requirements could impose significant limitations on us, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security incident, restrict our use or storage of personal Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 25 Tables of Contents information, limit our use of third-party tools and vendors, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior that may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products and may harm our future financial results. Additionally, any actual or alleged noncompliance with these laws and regulations, or failure to meet customer expectations could result in negative publicity or harm to our reputation and subject us to investigations, claims or other remedies, including demands that we modify or cease existing business practices, and expose us to significant fines, penalties and other damages. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with existing privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. We are frequently a party to litigation and regulatory inquiries which could result in an unfavorable outcome and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We are subject to various legal proceedings (including class action lawsuits), claims and regulatory inquiries that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional proceedings, claims and inquiries may arise in the future. The number and significance of these proceedings, claims and inquiries may increase as our businesses evolve. Any proceedings, claims or inquiries initiated by or against us, whether successful or not, may be time consuming; result in costly litigation, damage awards, consent decrees, injunctive relief or increased costs of business; require us to change our business practices or products; require significant amounts of management time; result in diversion of significant operations resources; or otherwise harm our business and future financial results. For further information about specific litigation, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights may cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. We may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, including patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement claims. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others. We have received a number of allegations of intellectual property infringement claims in the past and expect to receive more claims in the future based on allegations that our offerings infringe upon the intellectual property held by third parties. Some of these claims are the subject of pending litigation against us and against some of our customers. These claims may involve patent holding companies or other adverse intellectual property owners who have no relevant product revenues of their own, and against whom our own intellectual property may provide little or no deterrence. The ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain and, regardless of outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert managements time and attention from our business, require us to stop selling, delay shipping or redesign of our products, or require us to pay monetary damages for royalty or licensing fees, or to satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims made against us may harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services. The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information such as online content disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges, and there has been an increasing demand for repealing or limiting the protections afforded by these laws through either judicial decision or legislation. In spite of settled law in the U.S., claims are made against online services companies by parties who disagree with the content. Where our online content is accessed on the internet outside of the U.S., challenges may be brought under foreign laws which do not provide the same protections for online services companies as in the U.S. These challenges in either U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may require altering or limiting some of our services or may require additional contractual terms to avoid liabilities for our customers misconduct and may further give rise to legal claims alleging defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through the services. Certain of our services include content generated by users of our online services. Although this content is not generated by us, claims of defamation or other injury may be made against us for that content. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability may harm our business. FINANCIAL RISKS The results of operations of our tax business may fluctuate from period to period due to the seasonality of the business and other factors beyond our control. Our tax offerings have significant seasonal patterns. Revenue from income tax preparation products and services has historically been heavily concentrated from November through April, as the tax filing deadline for the IRS and many states is traditionally in April. This seasonality has caused significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. In addition, unanticipated changes to federal and state tax filing deadlines may further exacerbate the impact of the seasonality. Our financial results from our tax offerings may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to a variety of other factors, some of which may affect the timing of revenue recognition. These include the timing of the availability of federal and state tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions; changes to our offerings that result in the inclusion or exclusion of ongoing services; changes in product pricing strategies or product sales mix; changes in customer behavior; and the timing of our discontinuation of support for older product offerings. Other factors, Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 26 Tables of Contents including unanticipated changes to the tax code or the administration of government programs and payments by tax authorities, may cause variations from year to year in the number of tax filers. Any of the foregoing could negatively impact the number of tax returns we prepare and file and the operating results of our tax business. Other factors that may affect our quarterly or annual financial results include the timing of acquisitions, divestitures, and goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment charges. Any fluctuations in our operating results may adversely affect our stock price. If actual customer refunds for our offerings exceed the amount we have reserved, our future financial results may be harmed. Like many software companies, we refund customers for product returns and subscription and service cancellations. We establish reserves against revenue in our financial statements based on estimated customer refunds. We closely monitor this refund activity in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, customer refunds have not differed significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual customer refunds or an increase in risks of collecting customer payments that significantly exceed the amount we have reserved, it may result in lower net revenue. Unanticipated changes in our income tax rates or other indirect tax may affect our future financial results. Our future effective income tax rates may be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, by changes in our stock price, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. There are several proposed changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax legislation and the ultimate enactment of any of them could have a negative impact on our effective tax rate. Foreign governments may enact tax laws, including in response to guidelines issued by international organizations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These continuous examinations may result in unforeseen tax-related liabilities, which may harm our future financial results. An increasing number of states and foreign jurisdictions have adopted laws or administrative practices that impose new taxes on all or a portion of gross revenue or other similar amounts or impose additional obligations to collect transaction taxes such as sales, consumption, value added, or similar taxes. We may not have sufficient lead time to build systems and processes to collect these taxes properly, or at all. Failure to comply with such laws or administrative practices, or a successful assertion by such states or foreign jurisdictions requiring us to collect taxes where we do not, could result in material tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest. Adverse global macroeconomic conditions could harm our business and financial condition. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, and perceptions or expectations about current or future conditions, such as volatility or distress in the financial markets, recession or inflationary pressures, slowing growth, rising interest rates, rising unemployment, rising consumer debt levels, reduced consumer confidence or economic activity, government fiscal and tax policies, U.S. and international trade relationships, government shutdowns and austerity programs could negatively affect our business and financial condition. These macroeconomic conditions or global events, such as political instability and war, have caused, and could, in the future, cause disruptions and volatility in global financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, decreases in consumer and small business spending and other unforeseen consequences. It is difficult to predict the impact of such events on our partners, customers, members, or economic markets more broadly, which have been and will continue to be highly dependent upon the actions of governments and businesses in response to macroeconomic events, and the effectiveness of those actions. Additionally, adverse developments that affect financial institutions, such as bank failures, or concerns or speculation about similar events or risks, could lead to liquidity challenges and further instability in the financial markets, which may in turn cause third parties, including customers, to become unable to meet their obligations under various types of financial arrangements. Moreover, because the majority of our revenue is derived from sales within the U.S., economic conditions in the U.S. have an even greater impact on us than companies with a more diverse international presence. Macroeconomic conditions, and perceptions or expectations about current or future conditions, could cause potential new customers not to purchase or to delay purchasing our products and services, and could cause our existing customers to discontinue purchasing or delay upgrades of our existing products and services. In addition, some financial institutions and other partners have decreased or suspended their activity on Credit Karmas platform and may continue to do so, and increased interest rates may make offers from Credit Karmas partners less attractive to Credit Karma's members. Members may decrease their engagement on the platform or their creditworthiness could be negatively impacted, reducing members' ability to qualify for credit cards and loans. Decreased consumer spending levels could also reduce payment processing volumes, causing reductions in our payments revenue. High unemployment and changes in the tax code and the government programs that are administered by tax authorities have caused, and could in the future cause, a significant decrease in the number of tax returns filed, which may have a significant effect on the number of tax returns we prepare and file. In addition, weakness in the end-user consumer and small business markets could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenue or future sales to these customers. Adverse economic conditions may also increase the costs of operating our business, including vendor, supplier and workforce expenses. Additionally, any inability to access the capital markets when needed due to volatility or illiquidity in the markets or increased regulatory liquidity and capital requirements may strain our liquidity positions. Such conditions may also expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 27 Tables of Contents interest rates that could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Any of the foregoing could harm our business and negatively impact our future financial results. We provide capital to small businesses, which exposes us to risk, and may cause us material financial or reputational harm. We provide capital to qualified small businesses, which exposes us to the risk of our borrowers inability to repay such loans. We have also entered into credit arrangements with financial institutions to obtain a portion of the capital we provide to qualified small businesses. Any termination or interruption in the financial institutions ability to lend to us could interrupt our ability to provide capital to qualified small businesses. Further, our credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting, scoring and other models used to evaluate loan applications may contain errors or may not adequately assess creditworthiness of our borrowers, or may be otherwise ineffective, resulting in incorrect approvals or denials of loans. It is also possible that loan applicants could provide false or incorrect information. Moreover, adverse macroeconomic conditions, such as inflation and rising interest rates, have impacted and may continue to impact small businesses, which are disproportionately adversely affect by economic downturns, and may increase the likelihood that our borrowers are unable to repay their loans. If any of the foregoing events were to occur, our reputation, relationships with borrowers, collections of loans receivable and financial results could be harmed. Amortization of acquired intangible assets and impairment charges may cause significant fluctuation in our net income. Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization and impairment of acquired technology and other acquired intangible assets, and impairment of goodwill. Total costs and expenses in these categories were $629 million in fiscal 2024; $646 million in fiscal 2023; and $556 million in fiscal 2022. Although under current accounting rules goodwill is not amortized, we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We test the impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that may not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. At July 31, 2024, we had $13.8 billion in goodwill and $5.8 billion in net acquired intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet, both of which may be subject to impairment charges in the future. New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of acquired intangible assets, may have a significant negative impact on our future financial results. We have incurred indebtedness and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. As of July 31, 2024, we had an aggregate of $6.0 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our senior unsecured notes, senior unsecured credit facility, and secured credit facilities. Under the agreements governing our indebtedness, we are permitted to incur additional debt. This debt, and any debt that we may incur in the future, may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things: increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, share repurchases and acquisitions; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things, to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell selected assets or reduce or delay planned capital, operating or investment expenditures. Such measures may not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. Additionally, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose restrictions on us and require us to comply with certain covenants. For example, our credit facilities restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes limit our ability to create liens on our and subsidiaries assets and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of these covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders or the noteholders, as applicable, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any or all of our outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. Under the terms of our 2020 Notes, we may be required to repurchase the notes for cash prior to their maturity in connection with the occurrence of certain changes of control that are accompanied by certain downgrades in the credit ratings of the notes. The repayment obligations under the notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. If we were required to pay the notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a negative impact on our cash position and liquidity and impair our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 28 Tables of Contents under our unsecured revolving credit facility may increase. In addition, adverse economic conditions or any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may negatively impact the terms of any such financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancing or additional financing would be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us, if at all. We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. We have a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase our common stock. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. Our repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time. Even if our stock repurchase program is fully implemented, it may not enhance long-term stockholder value. Also, the amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchase programs may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes and because of changes in cash flows, tax laws, and the market price of our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment could lose value. Our stock price is subject to changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or legal proceedings can cause changes in our stock price. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, including the effects of a general slowdown in the global economy, inflationary pressures, pandemics and endemics, significant armed conflicts, acts of war and terrorism, and the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes may cause volatility in our stock price. Moreover, inflationary pressures, pandemics and endemics, and significant armed conflicts, acts of war and terrorism have caused, and in the future may cause, increased volatility in the global financial markets and, in turn, our stock price. Further, any changes in the amounts or frequency of share repurchases or dividends may also adversely affect our stock price. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which may result in substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources, which may adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B - UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C - CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGY We host, collect, process, use, and retain large amounts of sensitive and personal data across an array of our own and third-party information systems. To help protect these systems and data, we have implemented a robust information security program that includes numerous administrative, technical, and physical safeguards. We strive to evolve our cyber defenses to help minimize impacts from cyber threats. In general, we seek to address cybersecurity risks through a cross-functional approach. This approach focuses on protecting business operations and preserving the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of systems and data by preventing and mitigating cybersecurity threats, as well as effectively responding to cybersecurity incidents when they occur. Our information security program includes: Having designated information security personnel, led by our Chief Information Security and Fraud Prevention Officer (CISO), who has decades of relevant experience and has previously served as Chief Information Officer. The CISO is supported primarily by our Cybersecurity, Compliance, Risk, and Fraud Team (CyberCRAFT), which consists of approximately 490 professionals as of July 31, 2024. In addition to bringing their current expertise to their roles, CyberCRAFT professionals have the ability to participate in our specialized training and development programs to further enhance their cybersecurity skillsets and cross-train on related capabilities. The CISO works closely with the Companys internal legal team to oversee compliance with legal, regulatory and contractual security requirements; Risk assessments designed to help identify and prioritize significant cybersecurity risks. Our process for identifying and assessing material risks from cybersecurity threats includes incorporation of an internally developed threat catalog and our tracking of trends for areas such as vulnerability management, our leverage of technical standards and guidance, input from our participation and collaboration with law enforcement and government initiatives, and our internal and vendor-supported threat intelligence initiatives. The cybersecurity risk assessment operates alongside our broader overall enterprise-wide risk assessment and management process, and key cybersecurity risks are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee in a manner that helps frame cybersecurity risks as part of a broader risk context; Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 29 Tables of Contents Regular testing and assessments of our systems and controls to evaluate the information security program maturity and effectiveness using cybersecurity frameworks (such as ISO 27001, PCI DSS, and SOC 2) and to identify and address potential vulnerabilitiesand as appropriate, we adjust our policies, standards, and processes based on testing and assessment results; A vulnerability management program to determine the in-scope systems, patch systems based on criticality, and disclose potential vulnerabilities; A cybersecurity incident response plan and scenario-specific playbooks for responding to various types of cybersecurity incidents; Business continuity and disaster recovery plans to support more effective response and recovery efforts in the event of a significant cybersecurity incident or disruption; The use of external service providers and consultants to assess or monitor the environment or otherwise assist with aspects of our cybersecurity controls; Commercially available and customized security technologies and security and business controls to limit access to and use of such sensitive data; A security awareness and training program for our employees and contractors, with role-based training for certain personnel and positions; and A third-party risk management framework designed to monitor and address cybersecurity risks from various third parties (including vendors, service providers, and other contractors) that includes diligence regarding the third partys cybersecurity capabilities and additional monitoring of certain third parties based on the results of diligence. In addition, we have established standard contractual terms and conditions regarding cybersecurity applicable to third parties, as well as further downstream parties, that may be tailored to the use case and sensitivity of any data or business processes involved. Additionally, we maintain cybersecurity insurance which may cover some or all of the potential losses from a cybersecurity incident. During the last fiscal year, we did not identify any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, that materially affected Intuit, including its business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. However, we continue to face ongoing and increasing cybersecurity risks which may materially affect us in the future. Additional information on the cybersecurity risks is discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report, including without limitation the risk that Security incidents, improper access to or disclosure of our data or customers data, or other cyberattacks on our systems could harm our reputation, business, and financial condition. GOVERNANCE Management is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Intuits cybersecurity policies, processes, practices, and risk management. The Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors provides primary oversight of cybersecurity risks and the Companys efforts to mitigate those risks. MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT As part of management oversight, our CEO receives monthly updates from the CISO and representatives from CyberCRAFT. These updates provide a recurring overview of cybersecurity trends and status updates (e.g., security events, fraud detection, IT roadmap progress, follow-up from prior assessments, security awareness exercise results), as well as a more focused analysis on select cybersecurity topics for the month. Examples of prior topics include: recent cybersecurity legislation, cybersecurity incidents affecting external entities, and trends in cybersecurity controls and adoption. As part of our incident response processes, incidents are classified based on the incidents characteristics. For certain risk-based classifications of incidents, the CEO and other members of the executive leadership team are also informed and contribute as part of our incident response processes. BOARD OVERSIGHT Our full Board of Directors provides ultimate oversight for the cybersecurity program, in addition to other significant risks of Intuit. The Board of Directors has delegated to the Audit and Risk Committee to provide the primary oversight of cybersecurity risks. On a quarterly basis, the CISO and CyberCRAFT specialists present the Audit and Risk Committee with updates, metrics, and trends, such as the status of prior security events, existing and emerging threat landscapes, the results of audits or assessments, fraud prevention efforts, vulnerability detection and disclosure changes, and the status of projects to strengthen our security systems and improve incident readiness, and how these may affect broader enterprise risk management. Under our incident response processes risk-based escalation protocols, the CISO, or other management, escalates certain incidents to the chair of the Audit and Risk Committee, who may then involve the broader committee or the full Board of Directors, as appropriate. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 30 Tables of Contents ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES Our principal locations, their purposes, and the expiration dates for the leases on facilities at those locations as of July 31, 2024, are shown in the table below. We have renewal options on many of our leases. Location Purpose Approximate Square Feet Principal Lease Expiration Dates Mountain View, California Corporate headquarters and principal offices for Small Business & Self-Employed segment 487,000 2024 - 2026 Mountain View, California Corporate headquarters and principal offices for Small Business & Self-Employed segment 364,000 Owned Bangalore, India Principal offices for Intuit India 478,000 2026 - 2029 San Diego, California Principal offices for Consumer segment 466,000 Owned Oakland, California Principal offices for Credit Karma segment 167,000 2031 Plano, Texas Principal offices for ProTax segment 166,000 2026 We also lease or own facilities in a number of domestic locations and lease facilities internationally in Canada, Israel, the United Kingdom, Australia, and other locations. We believe our facilities are suitable and adequate for our current and near-term needs, and that we will be able to locate additional facilities as needed. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information about our lease commitments. ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a description of legal proceedings. ITEM 4 - MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 31 Tables of Contents PART II ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information for Common Stock Intuits common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol INTU. Stockholders As of August 27, 2024, we had approximately 520 record holders and approximately 2,014,000 beneficial holders of our common stock. Dividends We declared cash dividends that totaled $3.60 per share of outstanding common stock, or $1.0 billion, during fiscal 2024 and $3.12 per share of outstanding common stock, or $898 million, during fiscal 2023. In August 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.04 per share of outstanding common stock payable on October 18, 2024 to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 10, 2024. We currently expect to continue to pay comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis in the future; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Stock repurchase activity during the three months ended July 31, 2024 was as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans May 1, 2024 through May 31, 2024 391,465 $ 627.40 391,465 $ 1,881,558,238 June 1, 2024 through June 30, 2024 22,834 $ 568.62 22,834 $ 1,868,574,362 July 1, 2024 through July 31, 2024 $ $ 1,868,574,362 Total 414,299 $ 624.16 414,299 Note: On August 22, 2023, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the authorization under the existing stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to an additional $2.3 billion of our common stock. All of the shares repurchased during the three months ended July 31, 2024 were purchased under this plan. At July 31, 2024, we had authorization from our Board of Directors for up to $1.9 billion in stock repurchases. On August 20, 2024, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the authorization under the existing stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to an additional $3 billion of our common stock. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 32 Tables of Contents Company Stock Price Performance The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on Intuit common stock for the last five full fiscal years with the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Index and the Morgan Stanley Technology Index for the same period. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in Intuit common stock and in each of the other indices on July 31, 2019, and that all dividends were reinvested. The comparisons in the graph below are based on historical data with Intuit common stock prices based on the closing price on the dates indicated and are not intended to forecast the possible future performance of Intuits common stock. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN Among Intuit Inc., the S&P 500 Index, and Morgan Stanley Technology Index Copyright 2024 Standard and Poors, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. July 31, 2019 July 31, 2020 July 31, 2021 July 31, 2022 July 31, 2023 July 31, 2024 Intuit Inc. $ 100.00 $ 111.34 $ 193.74 $ 167.69 $ 189.49 $ 241.17 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 111.96 $ 152.76 $ 145.67 $ 164.63 $ 201.10 Morgan Stanley Technology Index $ 100.00 $ 143.78 $ 198.89 $ 179.35 $ 225.27 $ 308.73 ITEM 6 - [RESERVED] Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 33 Tables of Contents ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide readers of our consolidated financial statements with the perspectives of management. This should allow the readers of this report to obtain a comprehensive understanding of our businesses, strategies, current trends, and future prospects. Our MD&A includes the following sections: Executive Overview:High-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: Policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations: A more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources: Discussion of key aspects of our consolidated statements of cash flows, changes in our consolidated balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I of this Annual Report for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Annual Report. In the Results of Operations sections of this MD&A, where we describe two or more factors that contributed to changes in revenue and operating income, we have, where possible, quantified the impact of those factors. Where a change is the result of multiple factors that are interrelated and cannot be separately quantified, we have identified the interrelated factors without quantifying them. On November 1, 2021, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of The Rocket Science Group LLC (Mailchimp). Our Mailchimp offerings are part of our Small Business & Self-Employed segment. We have included the results of operations of Mailchimp in our consolidated statements of operations from the date of acquisition. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, to align our presentation of revenue and cost of revenue with our current revenue mix, we began to aggregate other revenue with product revenue, rather than service revenue, and cost of other revenue with cost of product revenue, rather than cost of service revenue. We reclassified the previously reported balances to conform to the current presentation. The reclassification was not material and had no impact on previously reported total net revenue or cost of revenue. On August 1, 2023, we reorganized certain technology functions in our Consumer and ProTax segments that support and benefit our overall platform. Additionally, certain workplace and real estate functions in our Small Business & Self-Employed segment are now managed at the corporate level. As a result of these reorganizations, costs associated with these functions are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, we reclassified $49 million and $21 million from Small Business & Self-Employed, $168 million and $150 million from Consumer, and $60 million and $64 million from ProTax to other corporate expenses, respectively. See Note 15, Segment Information, for more information. In July 2024, our management approved, committed to, and initiated a plan of reorganization (the Plan) focused on reallocating resources to our key growth areas. The Plan includes the exit of employees and the closing of real estate sites in certain markets in service to growing technology teams and capabilities in strategic locations. We expect the actions associated with the Plan to be substantially complete by the first quarter of fiscal 2025. Restructuring costs associated with the Plan are estimated to be approximately $247 million. During the twelve months ended July 31, 2024, we recorded a $223 million charge in connection with the Plan. This charge is primarily related to severance and employee benefits and is recorded to restructuring in our consolidated statements of operations. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. On August 1, 2024, we renamed our Small Business & Self-Employed segment as the Global Business Solutions segment. This new name better aligns with the global reach of the Mailchimp and QuickBooks platform, our focus on serving both small and mid-market businesses, and our vision to become the end-to-end platform that customers use to grow and run their business. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results for fiscal 2024, as well as Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 34 Tables of Contents our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Trends and Seasonality Industry Trends Artificial intelligence (AI) is transforming multiple industries, including financial technology. Disruptive start-ups, emerging ecosystems, and mega-platforms are harnessing new technology to create personalized experiences, deliver data-driven insights, and increase speed of service. These shifts are creating a more dynamic and highly competitive environment where customer expectations are shifting around the world as more services become digitized and the array of choices continues to increase. Seasonality Our Consumer and ProTax offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are typically heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern typically results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and ProTax businesses to continue to have a material impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to innovate, develop, and introduce emerging technologies, including AI and GenAI, to drive broad adoption of our products and services and enter new markets. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain, and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Much of our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and develop highly skilled employees, including those in technical and leadership roles who are critical to our strategic growth, in a highly competitive talent environment. As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. We operate in industries that are experiencing an increasing amount of fraudulent activities by malicious third parties. We implement additional security measures, and we continue to work with state and federal governments to implement industry-wide security and anti-fraud measures, including sharing information regarding suspicious activity. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. Our operations are impacted by a rapidly-evolving regulatory environment and face increasingly heightened scrutiny. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations covering a broad and increasing range of subjects, both in the U.S. and internationally. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 35 Tables of Contents Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; operating income growth for the company as a whole; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. Service offerings are a significant part of our business. Our total service revenue was $13.9 billion, or 85% of our total revenue in fiscal 2024, and we expect our total service revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to grow over the long term. Key highlights for fiscal 2024 include the following: Revenue of Small Business & Self-Employed revenue of Consumer revenue of $16.3 B $9.5 B $4.4 B up 13% from fiscal 2023 up 19% from fiscal 2023 up 7% from fiscal 2023 Credit Karma revenue of ProTax revenue of Operating income of $1.7 B $599 M $3.6 B up 5% from fiscal 2023 up 7% from fiscal 2023 up 16% from fiscal 2023 Net income of Diluted net income per share of Cash flow from operations of $3.0 B $10.43 $4.9 B up 24% from fiscal 2023 up 24% from fiscal 2023 down 3% from fiscal 2023 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we are required to make estimates, assumptions, and judgments that can have a material impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. We believe that the estimates, assumptions, and judgments involved in the following accounting policies have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets, and Other Long-Lived Assets Impairment Assessments Legal Contingencies Accounting for Income Taxes Estimates of Deferred Taxes, Valuation Allowances, and Uncertain Tax Positions Our senior management has reviewed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and their disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 36 Tables of Contents Revenue Recognition We derive our revenue primarily from the sale of online services such as tax, accounting, payroll, merchant payment processing services, delivery of qualified links, marketing automation, customer relationship management, and desktop software products and desktop software subscriptions. Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services, which are primarily recognized ratably over the relevant period. In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process. The primary judgments include identifying the performance obligations in the contract and determining whether the performance obligations are distinct. If any of these judgments were to change, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue we report in a particular period. For additional information, see Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Business Combinations As described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Business Combinations, in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, under the acquisition method of accounting, we generally recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in an acquiree at their fair values as of the date of acquisition. We measure goodwill as the excess of consideration transferred, which we also measure at fair value, over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The acquisition method of accounting requires us to exercise judgment and make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair values of the elements of a business combination as of the date of acquisition, including the fair values of identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, and contingencies. This method allows us to refine these estimates over a one-year measurement period to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. If we are required to retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions, these adjustments could materially decrease our operating income and net income and result in lower asset values on our consolidated balance sheets. Significant estimates and assumptions that we must make in estimating the fair value of acquired technology, customer lists, and other identifiable intangible assets include future cash flows that we expect to generate from the acquired assets. If the subsequent actual results and updated projections of the underlying business activity change compared with the assumptions and projections used to develop these values, we could record impairment charges. In addition, we have estimated the economic lives of certain acquired assets and these lives are used to calculate depreciation and amortization expense. If our estimates of the economic lives change, depreciation or amortization expenses could be accelerated or slowed. Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets Impairment Assessments We estimate the fair value of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite useful lives whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. We test for potential impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or whenever indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the annual test may result in charges to our consolidated statements of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that could not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. As described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets, in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, in order to estimate the fair value of goodwill, we use a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow model (known as the income approach) and comparisons to publicly traded companies engaged in similar businesses (known as the market approach). The income approach requires us to use a number of assumptions, including market factors specific to the business, the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the business over an extended period of time, long-term growth rates for the business, and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. We evaluate cash flows at the reporting unit level. Although the assumptions we use in our discounted cash flow model are consistent with the assumptions we use to generate our internal strategic plans and forecasts, significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows from each reporting unit and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. When using the market approach, we make judgments about the comparability of publicly traded companies engaged in similar businesses. We base our judgments on factors such as size, growth rates, profitability, risk, and return on investment. We also make judgments when adjusting market multiples of revenue, operating income, and earnings for these companies to reflect their relative similarity to our own businesses. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a summary of goodwill by reportable segment. We estimate the recoverability of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite useful lives by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows that we expect the asset to generate. In order to estimate the fair value of those assets, we estimate the present value of future cash flows from those assets. The key assumptions that we use in our discounted cash flow model are the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset over an extended period of time and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. Significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. We also make judgments about the remaining useful lives of acquired Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 37 Tables of Contents intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite lives. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a summary of cost, accumulated amortization, and weighted-average life in years for our acquired intangible assets. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. For example, if our future operating results do not meet current forecasts or if we experience a sustained decline in our market capitalization that is determined to be indicative of a reduction in fair value of one or more of our reporting units, we may be required to record future impairment charges for goodwill and acquired intangible assets. Impairment charges could materially decrease our future net income and result in lower asset values on our consolidated balance sheets. During the fourth quarters of fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023, and fiscal 2022, we performed our annual goodwill impairment tests. Using the methodology described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets, in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, we determined that the estimated fair values of all of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values and that they were not impaired. Legal Contingencies We are subject to certain legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims, and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. We review the status of each significant matter quarterly and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability and an expense for the estimated loss. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the range of the loss can be reasonably determined, then we disclose the range of the possible loss. Significant judgment is required in the determination of whether a potential loss is probable, reasonably possible, or remote, as well as in the determination of whether a potential exposure is reasonably estimable. Our accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and legal proceedings and may revise our estimates. Potential legal liabilities and the revision of estimates of potential legal liabilities could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Accounting for Income Taxes Estimates of Deferred Taxes, Valuation Allowances, and Uncertain Tax Positions We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax rules and the potential for future adjustment of our uncertain tax positions by the United States Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions. We estimate our current tax liability and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which we show on our consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding tax expense in our consolidated statements of operations. We record a valuation allowance to reflect uncertainties about whether we will be able to utilize our deferred tax assets before they expire. We assess the need for an adjustment to the valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. The assessment is based on our estimates of future sources of taxable income in the jurisdictions in which we operate and the periods over which our deferred tax assets will be realizable. While we have considered future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance for the periods presented, we could in the future be required to increase the valuation allowance to take into account additional deferred tax assets that we may be unable to realize. An increase in the valuation allowance could have an adverse impact on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the change. We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 38 Tables of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 can be found under Item 7 of Part II in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on September 1, 2023, which is available free of charge on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at investors.intuit.com. Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 2024-2023 % Change 2023-2022 % Change Total net revenue $16,285 $14,368 $12,726 13 % 13 % Operating income 3,630 3,141 2,571 16 % 22 % Net income 2,963 2,384 2,066 24 % 15 % Diluted net income per share $10.43 $8.42 $7.28 24 % 16 % Total net revenue increased $1.9 billion, or 13%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023. Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue increased 19% due to growth in our Online Ecosystem revenue. Consumer segment revenue increased 7% due to the interrelated factors of a shift in mix to our higher-priced services offerings, such as TurboTax Live, and higher effective prices. See Segment Results later in this Item 7 for more information. Operating income increased $489 million, or 16%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023. The increase in operating income was due to the increase in revenue described above and an increase in expenses. Expenses increased due to staffing, marketing, restructuring, share-based compensation, and outside services. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 7 for more information. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information on our restructuring charges. Net income increased $579 million, or 24%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023. The increase in net income was due to the increase in operating income described above, an increase in interest income due to higher average interest rates, and a decrease in income tax expense related to higher excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. Diluted net income per share increased 24% to $10.43 for fiscal 2024, in line with the increase in net income. Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our four reportable segments. All of our segments operate and sell to customers primarily in the United States. Total international net revenue was approximately 8% of consolidated total net revenue in each of the twelve months ended July 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022. On November 1, 2021, we acquired Mailchimp in a business combination. Our Mailchimp offerings are part of our Small Business & Self-Employed segment. We have included the results of operations of Mailchimp in our consolidated statements of operations from the date of acquisition. In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, to align our presentation of revenue and cost of revenue with our current revenue mix, we began to aggregate other revenue with product revenue, rather than service revenue, and cost of other revenue with cost of product revenue, rather than cost of service revenue. We reclassified the previously reported balances to conform to the current presentation. The reclassification was not material and had no impact on previously reported total net revenue or cost of revenue. On August 1, 2023, we reorganized certain technology functions in our Consumer and ProTax segments that support and benefit our overall platform. Additionally, certain workplace and real estate functions in our Small Business & Self-Employed segment are now managed at the corporate level. As a result of these reorganizations, costs associated with these functions are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, we reclassified $49 million and $21 million from Small Business & Self-Employed, $168 million and $150 million from Consumer, and $60 million and $64 million from ProTax to other corporate expenses, respectively. Segment operating income is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. We include expenses such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative, and non-employment related legal and litigation settlement costs, which are not allocated to specific segments, in unallocated corporate items as part of other corporate expenses. For our Credit Karma segment, expenses include certain direct expenses related to selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative. Unallocated corporate items for all segments include share-based compensation, amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, professional fees and transaction charges related to business combinations, and restructuring charges. These unallocated corporate costs for all segments totaled $5.9 billion in fiscal 2024, $5.2 billion in fiscal Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 39 Tables of Contents 2023, and $4.6 billion in fiscal 2022. Unallocated corporate items increased in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 due to increases in restructuring costs, share-based compensation expense, and product development expense. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income to consolidated operating income for each fiscal year presented. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 40 Tables of Contents Small Business & Self-Employed Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue includes both Online Ecosystem and Desktop Ecosystem revenue. Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from: QuickBooks Online, QuickBooks Live, QuickBooks Online Advanced, QuickBooks Self-Employed, and QuickBooks Solopreneur financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Online Payroll; Merchant payment processing and bill pay services for small and mid-market businesses that use online offerings; Mailchimps marketing automation and customer relationship management offerings; QuickBooks Checking; and Financing for small businesses. Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from: QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); Desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); Merchant payment processing services for small and mid-market businesses that use desktop offerings; Financial supplies; and Financing for small businesses. Segment service revenue is primarily derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue and revenue from the services and support that are provided as part of our QuickBooks Desktop subscription and desktop payroll offerings, as well as merchant payment processing services. Segment product and other revenue is primarily derived from revenue related to delivery of software licenses and the related updates, including version protection, for our QuickBooks Desktop subscription and desktop payroll offerings, which are part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Our fiscal 2022 revenue includes Mailchimp revenue from the date of acquisition, which was November 1, 2021. (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 2024-2023 % Change 2023-2022 % Change Service revenue $ 7,792 $ 6,641 $ 5,295 Product and other revenue 1,741 1,397 1,165 Total segment revenue $ 9,533 $ 8,038 $ 6,460 19 % 24 % % of total revenue 59 % 56 % 51 % Segment operating income $ 5,748 $ 4,581 $ 3,520 25 % 30 % % of related revenue 60 % 57 % 54 % Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 41 Tables of Contents Revenue classified by significant service and product offerings was as follows: (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 2024-2023 % Change 2023-2022 % Change Net revenue: QuickBooks Online Accounting $ 3,379 $ 2,849 $ 2,267 19 % 26 % Online Services 3,513 2,910 2,171 21 % 34 % Total Online Ecosystem 6,892 5,759 4,438 20 % 30 % QuickBooks Desktop Accounting 1,389 1,110 851 25 % 30 % Desktop Services and Supplies 1,252 1,169 1,171 7 % % Total Desktop Ecosystem 2,641 2,279 2,022 16 % 13 % Total Small Business & Self-Employed $ 9,533 $ 8,038 $ 6,460 19 % 24 % Revenue for our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased $1.5 billion, or 19%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023. The increase was due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue, which contributed to $1.1 billion of the increase for fiscal 2024. Online Ecosystem Online Ecosystem revenue increased $1.1 billion, or 20%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023. Online Services revenue increased $603 million, or 21%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 due to increases in revenue from our payroll offerings of $211 million, our payments offerings of $203 million, and Mailchimp of $125 million. Revenue increases were due to the interrelated factors described below. Online payroll revenue increased due to customer growth, higher effective prices, and a shift in mix to higher-end offerings. Online payments revenue increased due to customer growth, higher effective prices, and an increase in total payment volume per customer. Mailchimp revenue increased due to higher effective prices and paid customer growth. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased $530 million, or 19%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 due to customer growth, higher effective prices, and a shift in mix to our higher-priced offerings. Online Ecosystem average revenue per customer, which we define as total online ecosystem revenue divided by the average number of online paying customers, increased 11% for fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023. Online ecosystem paying customers, which we define as the sum of all QuickBooks Online customers, QuickBooks Time customers, Mailchimp paying customers, and customers who subscribe to standalone services outside of their QuickBooks Online experience, increased 6% as of July 31, 2024 compared with July 31, 2023. Desktop Ecosystem Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased $362 million, or 16%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023, $252 million of which is due to the interrelated factors of customer growth and price increases primarily in our QuickBooks Desktop and Enterprise subscription offerings. Approximately $110 million of fiscal 2024 revenue is associated with changes we made to our offerings in fiscal 2024 to complete the transition to a recurring subscription model, which more closely aligns our Desktop license and related product updates to our Desktop subscription billing model. Small Business & Self-Employed segment operating income increased $1.2 billion, or 25%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023, due to the increase in revenue described above, which was partially offset by increases in marketing expenses of $105 million, staffing expenses of $67 million, and outside services expenses of $54 million. In August 2023, we reorganized certain workplace and real estate functions that are now managed at the corporate level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, we reclassified $49 million and $21 million, respectively, from Small Business & Self-Employed to other corporate expenses. On August 1, 2024, we renamed our Small Business & Self-Employed segment as the Global Business Solutions segment. This new name better aligns with the global reach of the Mailchimp and QuickBooks platform, our focus on serving both small and mid-market businesses, and our vision to become the end-to-end platform that customers use to grow and run their business. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 42 Tables of Contents Consumer Consumer segment service revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online and TurboTax Live offerings, electronic tax filing services, and connected services. Consumer segment product and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates. (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 2024-2023 % Change 2023-2022 % Change Service revenue $ 4,214 $ 3,915 $ 3,694 Product and other revenue 231 220 221 Total segment revenue $ 4,445 $ 4,135 $ 3,915 7 % 6 % % of total revenue 27 % 29 % 31 % Segment operating income $ 2,920 $ 2,875 $ 2,633 2 % 9 % % of related revenue 66 % 70 % 67 % Revenue for our Consumer segment increased $310 million, or 7%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023, due to the interrelated factors of a shift in mix to our higher-priced service offerings, such as TurboTax Live, and higher effective prices. Consumer segment operating income increased $45 million, or 2%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023, due to the increase in revenue described above, partially offset by increases in marketing expenses of $116 million, staffing expenses of $70 million associated with both our shift in mix to our higher-priced service offerings and increasing service availability, and outside services expenses of $24 million. In August 2023, we reorganized certain technology functions that support and benefit our overall platform. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, we reclassified $168 million and $150 million, respectively, from Consumer to other corporate expenses. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 43 Tables of Contents Credit Karma Credit Karma segment revenue is primarily derived from cost-per-action transactions, which include the delivery of qualified links that result in completed actions such as credit card issuances and personal loan funding; cost-per-click and cost-per-lead transactions, which include user clicks on advertisements or advertisements that allow for the generation of leads, and primarily relate to mortgage and insurance businesses; and Credit Karma Money. (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 2024-2023 % Change 2023-2022 % Change Service revenue $ 1,708 $ 1,634 $ 1,805 Product and other revenue Total segment revenue $ 1,708 $ 1,634 $ 1,805 5 % (9 %) % of total revenue 10 % 11 % 14 % Segment operating income $ 414 $ 428 $ 531 (3 %) (19 %) % of related revenue 24 % 26 % 29 % Revenue for our Credit Karma segment increased $74 million, or 5%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023, due to increases in revenue from our credit card vertical of $32 million, auto insurance vertical of $25 million, and Credit Karma Money of $20 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our home loan vertical of $6 million. Credit Karma segment operating income decreased $14 million, or 3%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023, due to increases in marketing expenses of $68 million and outside services expenses of $28 million, partially offset by the increase in revenue described above. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 44 Tables of Contents ProTax ProTax segment service revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing services, connected services, and bank products. ProTax segment product and other revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products, and related form updates. (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 2024-2023 % Change 2023-2022 % Change Service revenue $ 147 $ 127 $ 120 Product and other revenue 452 434 426 Total segment revenue $ 599 $ 561 $ 546 7 % 3 % % of total revenue 4 % 4 % 4 % Segment operating income $ 487 $ 455 $ 447 7 % 2 % % of related revenue 81 % 81 % 82 % Revenue for our ProTax segment increased $38 million, or 7%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023, due to higher average revenue per customer. ProTax segment operating income increased $32 million, or 7%, in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023, due to the increase in revenue described above. Expenses were relatively flat in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023. In August 2023, we reorganized certain technology functions that support and benefit our overall platform. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the twelve months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, we reclassified $60 million and $64 million, respectively, from ProTax to other corporate expenses. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 45 Tables of Contents Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2024 % of Related Revenue Fiscal 2023 % of Related Revenue Fiscal 2022 % of Related Revenue Cost of service revenue $ 3,250 23 % $ 2,908 24 % $ 2,196 20 % Cost of product and other revenue 69 3 % 72 4 % 70 4 % Amortization of acquired technology 146 N/A 163 N/A 140 N/A Total cost of revenue $ 3,465 21 % $ 3,143 22 % $ 2,406 19 % Our cost of revenue has three components: (1) cost of service revenue, which includes the direct costs associated with our online and service offerings, such as costs for data processing and storage capabilities from cloud providers, ongoing production support costs, customer support costs, costs for the tax and bookkeeping experts that support our TurboTax Live and QuickBooks Live offerings, and costs related to credit score providers; (2) cost of product and other revenue, which includes the direct costs of manufacturing and shipping or electronically downloading our desktop software and financial supplies products; and (3) amortization of acquired technology, which represents the cost of amortizing developed technologies that we have obtained through acquisitions, over their useful lives. Cost of service revenue as a percentage of service revenue was relatively consistent in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Cost of product and other revenue as a percentage of product and other revenue was consistent in fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023. Costs of product and other revenue are expensed as incurred, and we do not defer any of these costs when product and other revenue is deferred. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2024 % of Total Net Revenue Fiscal 2023 % of Total Net Revenue Fiscal 2022 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 4,312 26 % $ 3,762 26 % $ 3,526 29 % Research and development 2,754 17 % 2,539 18 % 2,347 18 % General and administrative 1,418 9 % 1,300 9 % 1,460 11 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 483 3 % 483 3 % 416 3 % Restructuring 223 1 % % % Total operating expenses $ 9,190 56 % $ 8,084 56 % $ 7,749 61 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue was flat in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Total net revenue increased $1.9 billion, or 13%, and total operating expenses increased $1.1 billion, or 14%. The increase in total operating expenses was due to increases of $294 million for marketing expenses, $257 million for staffing due to higher headcount, $223 million in restructuring charges which includes $25 million in share-based compensation, and $175 million for other share-based compensation. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information regarding restructuring charges. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $242 million and $248 million in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, consisted of interest on our senior unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and secured revolving credit facilities. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 46 Tables of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net (In millions) Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 Interest income(1) $ 147 $ 106 $ 15 Net gain (loss) on executive deferred compensation plan assets(2) 24 12 (12) Other (9) (22) 49 Total interest and other income, net $ 162 $ 96 $ 52 (1) Interest income increased in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, due to higher average interest rates. (2) In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income, and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2024 was approximately 17%. Excluding certain tax benefits primarily related to share-based compensation, our effective tax rate was approximately 24%. This rate differed from the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the benefit we received from the federal research and experimentation credit. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2023 was approximately 20%. Excluding the tax benefits related to share-based compensation and a transfer of certain intangible assets from our United Kingdom subsidiary to the United States, our effective tax rate was approximately 24%. This rate differed from the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the benefit we received from the federal research and experimentation credit. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information about our effective tax rates. At July 31, 2024, we had net deferred tax assets of $695 million, which included a valuation allowance for California net deferred tax assets primarily related to state research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, foreign loss carryforwards, and state operating loss carryforwards. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates earlier in this Item 7 and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Under the 2017 Tax Cuts & Jobs Act, research and development costs incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021 are no longer fully deductible and are required to be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes. The mandatory capitalization requirement, effective for us beginning August 1, 2022, significantly increased our deferred tax assets and income taxes payable for fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024, and we expect it to continue to cause an increase in our deferred tax assets and income taxes payable in the near term. The Inflation Reduction Act was enacted on August 16, 2022. This law, among other provisions, provides a corporate alternative minimum tax on adjusted financial statement income, which was effective for us beginning in fiscal 2024. There was no impact from the corporate alternative minimum tax in fiscal 2024. The corporate alternative minimum tax is not expected to have a significant impact to our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor developments and evaluate impacts, if any, of these provisions on our results of operations and cash flows for future years. In 2021, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) announced Pillar Two Model Rules, which call for the taxation of large multinational corporations at a minimum rate of 15%. Many non-U.S. tax jurisdictions have either recently enacted legislation to adopt certain components of the Pillar Two Model Rules beginning in fiscal 2025 with the adoption of additional components in later years or announced their plans to enact legislation in future years. The currently enacted Pillar Two Model Rules are not expected to have a significant impact to our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor developments and evaluate impacts, if any, of these provisions on our results of operations and cash flows for future years. In the current global tax policy environment, the U.S. and other domestic and foreign governments continue to consider, and in some cases enact, changes in corporate tax laws. As changes occur, we account for finalized legislation in the period of enactment. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 47 Tables of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview At July 31, 2024, our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $4.1 billion, an increase of $412 million from July 31, 2023, due to the factors described in Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which primarily includes the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, the issuance of senior unsecured notes, and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, acquisitions of businesses, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, debt service costs and debt repayment, and capital projects. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 7, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) July 31, 2024 July 31, 2023 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 4,074 $ 3,662 $ 412 11 % Long-term investments 131 105 26 25 % Short-term debt 499 499 NM Long-term debt 5,539 6,120 (581) (9) % Working capital 2,187 1,767 420 24 % Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.3 : 1 1.5 : 1 __________________________ NM - Not meaningful We have historically generated significant cash from operations, and we expect to continue to do so during fiscal 2025. Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $4.1 billion at July 31, 2024. None of those funds were restricted, and approximately 92% of those funds were located in the U.S. On November 1, 2021, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Mailchimp. The fair value of the purchase consideration totaled $12.0 billion, and included $5.7 billion in cash, and 10.1 million shares of Intuit common stock with a fair value of $6.3 billion. See "Business Combinations" below for more information. In September 2023, we issued $4 billion in senior unsecured notes, and used the proceeds, together with operating cash, to repay the outstanding balance on our term loan. In October 2023, we made tax payments of $710 million as a result of 2023 IRS disaster relief which allowed the deferral of certain fiscal 2023 tax payments to the first quarter of fiscal 2024. On February 5, 2024, we terminated our amended and restated credit agreement dated November 1, 2021, and entered into an unsecured credit agreement with certain lenders providing for a $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on February 5, 2029. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes. At July 31, 2024, no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. In June 2024, we established a $1.5 billion commercial paper program under which we may issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes (commercial paper). As of July 31, 2024, no amounts were outstanding under this program. Our secured revolving credit facilities are available to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. At July 31, 2024, $585 million was outstanding under both secured revolving credit facilities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and commercial paper program, and access to external financing will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to quickly respond to these types of opportunities. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 48 Tables of Contents Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023, and fiscal 2022. See the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for complete consolidated statements of cash flows for those periods. Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal (In millions) 2024 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 4,884 $ 5,046 $ 3,889 Investing activities (227) (922) (5,421) Financing activities (397) (4,269) 1,732 Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents (13) (22) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents $ 4,247 $ (145) $ 178 During fiscal 2024, we generated $4.9 billion in cash from operations. We also received $4.0 billion from the issuance of unsecured senior notes, $3.4 billion from the net increase in funds receivable and funds payable and amounts due to customers, $422 million from the net sales and maturities of investments, $282 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, and $155 million from net borrowings under our secured credit facilities. During the same period, we used $4.2 billion for the repayment of debt, $2.0 billion for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $1.0 billion for the payment of cash dividends, $1.0 billion for payments for employee taxes withheld upon vesting of restricted stock units, $250 million for capital expenditures, and $236 million for net originations of term loans to small businesses. During fiscal 2023, we generated $5.0 billion in cash from operations. We also received $222 million from borrowings under our secured credit facilities, and $228 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period, we used $2.0 billion for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $1.0 billionfor the repayment of debt, $889 million for the payment of cash dividends, $633 million for payments for employee taxes withheld upon vesting of restricted stock units, $326 million for the net purchases of investments, $260 million for capital expenditures, and $256 million for net originations of term loans to small businesses. Stock Repurchase Programs and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 12 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under a series of repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At July 31, 2024, we had authorization from our Board of Directors for up to $1.9 billion in stock repurchases. On August 20, 2024, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the authorization under the existing stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to an additional $3.0 billion of our common stock. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. We have continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. During fiscal 2024, we declared cash dividends that totaled $3.60 per share of outstanding common stock, or approximately $1.0 billion. In August 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.04 per share of outstanding common stock payable on October 18, 2024 to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 10, 2024. We currently expect to continue to pay comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Business Combinations Mailchimp On November 1, 2021, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Mailchimp for total consideration of $12.0 billion, which included $5.7 billion in cash and 10.1 million shares of Intuit common stock with a fair value of $6.3 billion. The fair value of the stock consideration is based on the October 29, 2021 closing price of Intuit common stock of $625.99. Pursuant to the equity purchase agreement, we also issued approximately 583,000 restricted stock units (RSUs) in substitution of outstanding equity incentive awards. These RSUs have a grant date fair value of approximately $355 million and are being expensed over three years. Additionally, we issued approximately 325,000 RSUs with a total grant date fair value of approximately $211 million to Mailchimp employees, of which $151 million is being expensed over four years and $60 million was expensed during the first six months following the acquisition date. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 49 Tables of Contents Mailchimp is part of our Small Business & Self-Employed segment. We have included the financial results of Mailchimp in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Commitments for Senior Unsecured Notes In June 2020, we issued $2 billion of senior unsecured notes, of which $1.5 billion is outstanding as of July 31, 2024, and is comprised of the following: $500 million of 0.950% notes due July 2025; $500 million of 1.350% notes due July 2027; and $500 million of 1.650% notes due July 2030 (together, the 2020 Notes). Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. At July 31, 2024, our maximum commitment for interest payments under the 2020 Notes was $75 million through the maturity dates. The 2020 Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Intuit and rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Intuit and are redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Upon the occurrence of change of control transactions that are accompanied by certain downgrades in the credit ratings of the 2020 Notes, we will be required to repurchase the 2020 Notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate outstanding principal plus any accrued and unpaid interest to but not including the date of repurchase. The indenture governing the 2020 Notes requires us to comply with certain covenants. For example, the 2020 Notes limit our ability to create certain liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. As of July 31, 2024, we were compliant with all covenants governing the 2020 Notes. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. In September 2023, we issued $4 billion of senior unsecured notes comprised of the following: $750 million of 5.250% notes due September 2026; $750 million of 5.125% notes due September 2028; $1,250 million of 5.200% notes due September 2033; and $1,250 million of 5.500% notes due September 2053 (together, the 2023 Notes). Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. At July 31, 2024, our maximum commitment for interest payments under the 2023 Notes was $2.9 billion through the maturity dates. The 2023 Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Intuit and rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Intuit and are redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. The indenture governing the 2023 Notes requires us to comply with certain covenants. For example, the 2023 Notes limit our ability to create certain liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. As of July 31, 2024, we were compliant with all covenants governing the 2023 Notes. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Credit Facilities Unsecured Revolving Credit Facilities On February 5, 2024, we terminated our amended and restated credit agreement dated November 1, 2021 (2021 Credit Facility), and entered into a credit agreement with certain lenders providing for a $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on February 5, 2029 (2024 Credit Facility). Under the 2024 Credit Facility, we may, subject to certain customary conditions, including approval of relevant lenders, on one or more occasions, increase commitments under the 2024 Credit Facility by an amount not to exceed $1 billion in the aggregate, and, on one or more occasions, extend the maturity date of the 2024 Credit Facility by one year. The 2024 Credit Facility includes a $500 million sublimit for borrowing swingline loans and a $250 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. Advances under the unsecured revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates equal to (a) in the case of U.S. dollar borrowings, at our election, either (i) the alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.125%, or (ii) the adjusted term Secured Overnight Finance Rate (SOFR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.7% to 1.125%, or (b) in the case of foreign currency borrowings, the interest benchmark for the relevant currency specified in the credit agreement plus a margin that ranges from 0.7% to 1.125%. Actual margins under either election are based on our senior debt credit ratings. The 2024 Credit Facility includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a ratio of total gross debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), as defined in the agreement, of not greater than 4.00 to 1.00 as measured on a rolling twelve month basis as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. As of July 31, 2024, we were compliant with all required covenants. At July 31, 2024, no amounts were outstanding under the 2024 Credit Facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing for the credit facility. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 50 Tables of Contents Secured Revolving Credit Facilities On February 19, 2019, a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a secured revolving credit facility with a lender to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses (the 2019 Secured Facility). The 2019 Secured Facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. We have entered into several amendments to this facility, most recently on July 19, 2024. These amendments primarily increase the facility limit, extend the commitment term and final maturity date, and update the benchmark interest rate. Under the amended 2019 Secured Facility, the facility limit is $500 million, of which $300 million is committed and $200 million is uncommitted. Advances accrue interest at adjusted daily simple SOFR plus 1.5%. Unused portions of the committed credit facility accrue interest at a rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%, depending on the total unused committed balance. The commitment term is through August 31, 2025, and the final maturity date is August 31, 2026. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. As of July 31, 2024, we were compliant with all required covenants. At July 31, 2024, $285 million was outstanding under the 2019 Secured Facility and the weighted-average interest rate was 6.99%, which includes the interest on the unused committed portion. The outstanding balance is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary totaling $1.1 billion. On October 12, 2022, another subsidiary of Intuit entered into a secured revolving credit facility with a lender to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses (the 2022 Secured Facility). The 2022 Secured Facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. We have entered into several amendments to this facility, most recently on April 30, 2024. These amendments primarily extend the commitment term and final maturity dates and increase the commitment amount. Under the amended 2022 Secured Facility, the facility limit is $500 million, of which $300 million is committed and $200 million is uncommitted. Advances accrue interest at SOFR plus 1.3%. Unused portions of the committed credit facility accrue interest at a rate ranging from 0.2% to 0.4%, depending on the total unused committed balance. The commitment term is through April 30, 2026, and the final maturity date is April 30, 2027. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. As of July 31, 2024, we were compliant with all required covenants. At July 31, 2024, $300 million was outstanding under the 2022 Secured Facility and the weighted-average interest rate was 6.68%. The outstanding balance is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary totaling $832 million. Commercial Paper Program In June 2024, we established a $1.5 billion commercial paper program under which we may issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes (commercial paper). The maturities of the commercial paper may vary up to 397 days from the date of issuance. As of July 31, 2024, no amounts were outstanding under this program. Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $4.1 billion at July 31, 2024. Approximately 8% of those funds were held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom, and India. We do not expect to pay incremental U.S. taxes on repatriation. We have recorded income tax expense for Canada, India, and Israel withholding taxes on earnings that are not permanently reinvested. In the event that funds from foreign operations are repatriated to the United States, we would pay withholding taxes at that time. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 51 Tables of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations to make future payments at July 31, 2024. We generally expect to fund these short and long-term obligations with cash from operations, the issuance of senior unsecured notes, and borrowings under our credit facilities. Payments Due by Period Less than 1-3 3-5 More than (In millions) 1 year years years 5 years Total Amounts due under executive deferred compensation plan $ 207 $ $ $ $ 207 Senior unsecured notes 500 1,250 750 3,000 5,500 Secured revolving credit facilities 585 585 Interest and fees due on debt 272 494 342 1,985 3,093 Operating leases (1) 87 166 133 221 607 Purchase obligations (2) 675 497 82 413 1,667 Total contractual obligations (3) $ 1,741 $ 2,992 $ 1,307 $ 5,619 $ 11,659 (1)Includes operating leases for facilities and equipment. Amounts do not include $14 million of future sublease income. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. (2)Represents agreements to purchase products and services that are enforceable, legally binding, and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payments. (3)Other long-term obligations on our consolidated balance sheet at July 31, 2024, included long-term income tax liabilities of $157 million, which related primarily to unrecognized tax benefits. We have not included this amount in the table above because we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate regarding the timing of settlements with taxing authorities, if any. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 52 Tables of Contents