ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) includes the following sections: Executive Overview that discusses at a high level our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations that includes a more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources which discusses key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see Item 1A in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2015 . In the fourth quarter fiscal 2015 we determined that our Demandforce, QuickBase, and Quicken businesses became long-lived assets held for sale. We accounted for these businesses as discontinued operations and have therefore reclassified our statements of operations and balance sheets for all periods presented to reflect them as such. Because the cash flows of these discontinued operations were not material for any period presented, we have not segregated the cash flows of those businesses from continuing operations on our statements of cash flows. See Results of Operations Discontinued Operations later in this Item 2 for more information. Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion pertains only to our continuing operations. Executive Overview This overview provides a high-level discussion of our business and growth strategy as well as the trends, opportunities, challenges, and risks that affect our performance and operating results. Understanding our growth strategy and the trends that affect our business provides context for the discussion of financial results and future opportunities which follows this overview. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. About Intuit Intuit creates business and financial management solutions that help simplify the business of life for small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. We organize our businesses into three reportable segments Small Business, Consumer Tax, and Professional Tax. Small Business: This segment targets small businesses and the accounting professionals who serve them and includes QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, and payment processing solutions. Consumer Tax: This segment targets consumers and includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services. Professional Tax: This segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada and includes Lacerte, ProSeries, ProFile, and Intuit Tax Online professional tax products and services. Our Growth Strategy Based on our assessment of key technology and demographic trends an increasingly borderless world, the prevalence of mobile devices, and the scalability of the cloud we see significant opportunities to drive future growth by continuing to solve the unmet needs of small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. Our evolving growth strategy includes three key elements: Focus on the product we call it Delivering awesome product experiences. Computing devices are moving to the palm of our hands in the form of tablets and smart phones. Our TurboTax solutions, for example, let customers prepare 23 Table of Contents and file their entire tax returns online, via tablet, mobile phone, or desktop computer. We also believe that a key factor in growing our customer base is delivering an amazing first-use experience so our customers can get the value they expect from our offerings as quickly and easily as possible. Creating network effect platforms we call it Enabling the contributions of others. We expect to solve problems faster and more efficiently for our growing base of customers by moving to more open platforms with application programming interfaces that enable the contributions of end users and third-party developers. One example of this is QuickBooks Online, which allows small business customers all over the world to localize, configure, and add value to the offering. Leveraging our data for our customers' benefit we call it Using data to create delight. Our customers generate valuable data that we seek to appropriately use to deliver better products and breakthrough benefits by eliminating the need to enter data, helping them make better decisions and improving transactions and interactions. Industry Trends and Seasonality Industry Trends The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future. The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers. While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase. In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services. This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses. Seasonality Our Consumer Tax offerings have significant seasonal patterns. As a result, during each of the last three fiscal years the total revenue for our third quarter ended April 30 has represented nearly half of our total revenue for those years. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer Tax business to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. During the beginning of the 2015 calendar year, state taxing authorities, the IRS, and the tax preparation industry experienced an increase in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds at the federal level and expanding into the state level. We implemented additional security measures in our products and began working with state governments to share information regarding suspicious filings while continuing to share such information with the federal government. In the upcoming tax season, we expect continued efforts by criminals to attempt to access our customers accounts and to try to use stolen identities to obtain customer information and file fraudulent federal and state tax returns. We will continue to invest in security and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Quarterly Report. 24 Table of Contents Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses and transaction volume for our payment processing business. Total credit and debit card transaction volume correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment and is one of the key drivers of revenue growth in our payment processing business. Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years. Connected services (total service and other revenue) generated $3.0 billion or 73% of our total revenue in fiscal 2015 , compared with about 50% of our total revenue seven years ago. We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future. Total net revenue for the first three months of fiscal 2016 was $713 million , an increase of 17% compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 . Total net revenue growth was affected by the changes that we made to our desktop software offerings in fiscal 2015. Starting with the release of Quickbooks 2015 in our first quarter of fiscal 2015, and for all subsequent versions, we began delivering ongoing enhancements and certain connected services for our QuickBooks desktop software products. We plan to continue to provide ongoing enhancements and certain connected services for all future versions. As a result of these changes, we recognize revenue for these QuickBooks desktop software products as services are provided over approximately three years. Revenue in our Small Business segment grew 5% in the first three months of fiscal 2016 compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 due to growth in connected services offerings such as QuickBooks Online, online payment processing services, and online payroll services, partially offset by the impact of the changes to our QuickBooks desktop software products. In fiscal 2015 we also began delivering ongoing enhancements and certain connected services for our Professional Tax desktop software products and we plan to continue to provide them for all future versions of those products. Due to these changes, we recognize revenue for these offerings as services are provided through the end of each calendar year. As a result, revenue in our Professional Tax segment increased 203% in the first three months of fiscal 2016 compared with the same period of fiscal 2015. Operating loss from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2016 was $29 million , a decrease of 73% compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 . Higher revenue was partially offset by higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for staffing and share-based compensation. Net loss from continuing operations decreased 62% for the first three months of fiscal 2016 compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 due to the decrease in the operating loss and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2016 period. Diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2016 decreased 61% to $0.11 due to the lower net loss and the decline in weighted average basic and diluted common shares compared with the same period of fiscal 2015. We ended the first three months of fiscal 2016 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $474 million . During the first three months of fiscal 2016 we generated cash from net sales of investments, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. At October 31, 2015 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.4 billion for stock repurchases through May 19, 2019 . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2015 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. We believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2016 . Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY16 Q1 FY15 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 713 $ 612 $ 101 17 % Operating loss from continuing operations (29 ) (109 ) 80 (73 )% Net loss from continuing operations (31 ) (81 ) 50 (62 )% Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations $ (0.11 ) $ (0.28 ) $ 0.17 (61 )% Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 increased $101 million or 17% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015 . Total net revenue growth was affected by the changes to our desktop software offerings described in Executive Overview - Overview of Financial Results above. Revenue in our Small Business segment grew 5% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2015 due to growth in connected services offerings such as QuickBooks Online, online payment processing services, and online payroll services, partially offset by the impact of the changes to our QuickBooks desktop software products. The changes to our desktop software offerings also impacted our Professional Tax segment. In fiscal 2015 we began delivering ongoing enhancements and certain connected services for our Professional Tax desktop software products and we plan to continue to provide them for all future versions of those products. Due to these changes, we recognize revenue for these offerings as services are provided through the end of each calendar year. As a result, revenue in our Professional Tax segment increased increased 203% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2015. See S egment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating loss from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 decreased 73% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015 . Higher revenue was partially offset by higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for staffing and share-based compensation. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net loss from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 decreased 62% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015 due to the decrease in the operating loss and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2016 period. See Non-Operating Income and Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 decreased 61% to $0.11 due to the lower net loss and the decline in weighted average basic and diluted common shares compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015. Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See Executive Overview About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was approximately 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $276 million in the first three months of fiscal 2016 and $248 million in the first three months of fiscal 2015 . Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2016 period due to increases in corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and to higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary slightly from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below. 26 Table of Contents Small Business (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY16 Q1 FY15 % Change Product revenue $ 166 $ 187 (11 )% Service and other revenue 380 332 14 % Total segment revenue $ 546 $ 519 5 % % of total revenue 77 % 85 % Segment operating income $ 211 $ 188 12 % % of related revenue 39 % 36 % Product revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks desktop software products, including QuickBooks Pro, QuickBooks Premier, QuickBooks Accountant, and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions; QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; ProAdvisor Program subscriptions for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses; and financial supplies. Service and other revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks Online, our hosted financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Pro Plus, QuickBooks Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Accountant Plus, our subscription offerings; QuickBooks technical support plans; small business payroll services, including Quickbooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll, and QuickBooks Assisted Payroll; and payment processing services for small businesses. As part of our connected services strategy, over the past several quarters we have been focusing Small Business segment resources on the enhancement and marketing of our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks desktop subscription offerings. As a result, QuickBooks desktop license units and revenue have been declining as more customers choose our hosted and subscription offerings and we expect this trend to continue. Small Business segment total net revenue increased $27 million or 5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015 . Small Business segment revenue growth was affected by the changes to our QuickBooks desktop offerings described in Executive Overview Overview of Financial Results above. Small Business Online Ecosystem revenue grew 28%, driven by customer acquisition. QuickBooks Online subscribers grew 57% and online payroll customers grew 17%. Active online payments customers grew 4% and online payments charge volume grew 14%. In our Small Business Desktop Ecosystem revenue declined 1%. QuickBooks desktop revenue declined 10% on flat unit sales as we continued to emphasize QuickBooks Online while QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions revenue grew 29%. Small Business segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 . The increase was due to the higher revenue described above partially offset by higher staffing expenses. Consumer Tax (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY16 Q1 FY15 % Change Product revenue $ 10 $ 11 (8 )% Service and other revenue 47 46 2 % Total segment revenue $ 57 $ 57 % % of total revenue 8 % 9 % Segment operating loss $ (28 ) $ (36 ) (23 )% % of related revenue (50 )% (64 )% Consumer Tax segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software. Consumer Tax segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer Tax offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from consumer tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Consumer Tax segment revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Consumer Tax segment total net revenue was flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015. 27 Table of Contents Because of the seasonality of our Consumer Tax revenue, we do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in our Consumer Tax segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2015 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2016. In our first fiscal quarter our Consumer Tax segment typically generates operating losses because Consumer Tax revenue is nominal while segment operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Consumer Tax segment operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Professional Tax (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY16 Q1 FY15 % Change Product revenue $ 95 $ 30 213 % Service and other revenue 15 6 151 % Total segment revenue $ 110 $ 36 203 % % of total revenue 15 % 6 % Segment operating income (loss) $ 72 $ (3 ) NM % of related revenue 65 % (8 )% NM = Not meaningful. Professional Tax segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products. Professional Tax segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from Intuit Tax Online tax return preparation, bank products, and related services that complement the tax return preparation process. Prior to fiscal 2015, we typically generated nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Professional Tax revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year was for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. In fiscal 2015 we began delivering ongoing enhancements and certain connected services for our Professional Tax desktop software products. As a result of these changes, we recognize revenue for these offerings as services are provided through the end of each calendar year. Professional Tax total net revenue increased $74 million or 203% in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015 due to the changes to our desktop software products. We do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2015 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2016. Professional Tax segment operating income increased in the first three months of fiscal 2016 compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 due to the increase in revenue described above. We do not believe that Professional Tax operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2015 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY16 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY15 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 29 11 % $ 33 14 % Cost of service and other revenue 131 30 % 119 31 % Amortization of acquired technology 6 n/a 7 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 166 23 % $ 159 26 % Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2016 compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 due to the changes to our Professional Tax and QuickBooks desktop software products described in Executive Overview Overview of Financial Results earlier in this Item 2. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue decreased slightly in the first three months of fiscal 2016 compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 due to growth in connected service offerings such as QuickBooks Online, online 28 Table of Contents payment processing services, and online payroll services. Online revenues have relatively lower costs of revenue compared with our other service offerings. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY16 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY15 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 244 34 % $ 251 41 % Research and development 213 30 % 189 32 % General and administrative 117 17 % 119 19 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 2 % 3 % Total operating expenses $ 576 81 % $ 562 92 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased to 81% in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 from 92% in the same quarter of fiscal 2015 . Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 increased $101 million or 17% and total operating expenses for that quarter increased $14 million. Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Executive Overview Overview of Financial Results earlier in this Item 2. Staffing expenses increased about $25 million due to higher headcount while expenses for marketing programs were about $7 million lower. Operating expenses also increased about $9 million for share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation expenses were higher in the fiscal 2016 quarter due to our assumption of certain equity awards in connection with business combinations. Share-based compensation expenses have also been increasing over time because the market price of our common stock has generally been increasing. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $7 million for the first three months of fiscal 2016 and $7 million for the first three months of fiscal 2015 consisted primarily of interest on senior notes that we issued in March 2007. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended (In millions) October 31, 2015 October 31, 2014 Interest income $ $ 2 Net gain (loss) on executive deferred compensation plan assets (2 ) 1 Other (2 ) (3 ) Total interest and other income (expense), net $ (4 ) $ Interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was lower compared with the same period of fiscal 2015 due to lower average invested balances and lower average interest rates. In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was approximately 22% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation as well as including the effects of losses in certain jurisdictions where we do not recognize a tax 29 Table of Contents benefit, our effective tax rate for the period was approximately 36% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was approximately 31% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation and a state tax law change as well as including the effects of losses in certain jurisdictions where we do not recognize a tax benefit, our effective tax rate for the period was approximately 37% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%. See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Discontinued Operations In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 we determined that our Demandforce, QuickBase, and Quicken businesses became long-lived assets held for sale and we classified them as discontinued operations. See Note 4 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At October 31, 2015 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $474 million , a decrease of $1.2 billion from July 31, 2015 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary source of liquidity has been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2015 July 31, 2015 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 474 $ 1,697 $ (1,223 ) (72 )% Long-term investments 28 27 1 4 % Borrowings under credit facility 350 350 NM Long-term debt 500 500 % Working capital (460 ) 816 (1,276 ) (156 )% Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 0.8 : 1 1.5 : 1 NM = Not meaningful. We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so during the balance of fiscal 2016 . Since our operations are primarily domestic, approximately 65% of our cash, cash equivalents and investments at October 31, 2015 were located in the U.S. and none of those funds were restricted. Our only long-term debt consists of $500 million in senior unsecured notes due in March 2017. We also have a $500 million unsecured revolving line of credit facility available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases. As of October 31, 2015, there was $350 million in outstanding borrowings on this credit facility, and we had $150 million of borrowings available. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these types of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. 30 Table of Contents Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 . See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2015 October 31, 2014 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (197 ) $ (118 ) $ (79 ) Investing activities 816 (61 ) 877 Financing activities (952 ) (123 ) (829 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (1 ) (5 ) 4 Total decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (334 ) $ (307 ) $ (27 ) During the first three months of fiscal 2016 we generated cash from net sales of investments, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, including the payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2015, the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. During the first three months of fiscal 2015 we generated cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, including the payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2014, the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2016 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At October 31, 2015 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.4 billion for stock repurchases through May 19, 2019 . We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. In the past we have satisfied option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting under our employee equity incentive plans by reissuing treasury shares, and we may do so again in the future. During the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we began issuing new shares of common stock to satisfy option exercises and RSU vesting under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. We have not yet determined the ultimate disposition of the shares that we have repurchased in the past, and consequently we continue to hold them as treasury shares. During the first three months of fiscal 2016 we also continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. In November 2015 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 19, 2016 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 11, 2016 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility On February 17, 2012 we entered into an agreement with certain institutional lenders for a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 17, 2017. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for a description of the key terms of this agreement, including the covenants. We remained in compliance with those covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2015 . We may use amounts borrowed under this credit facility for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. As of October 31, 2015, there was $350 million in outstanding borrowings on this credit facility, and we had $150 million of borrowings available. Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $474 million at October 31, 2015 . Of this amount, approximately 35% was held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in 31 Table of Contents Canada, India, and the United Kingdom. We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At October 31, 2015 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2015 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. On September 9, 2015 we entered into an agreement to purchase certain leased facilities for $262 million in cash and on November 9, 2015 we notified the seller of our unconditional acceptance of those facilities. Escrow is expected to close in January 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. 32 Table of Contents