ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) includes the following sections: Executive Overview that discusses at a high level our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations that includes a more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources which discusses key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see Item 1A in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2014 . In August 2013 we completed the sales of our Intuit Financial Services (IFS) business and our Intuit Health business. We have reclassified our statements of operations for all periods presented to reflect these two businesses as discontinued operations. Because the operating cash flows of our IFS and Intuit Health discontinued operations were not material for any period presented, we have not segregated them from continuing operations on our statements of cash flows. See Results of Operations Discontinued Operations later in this Item 2 for more information. Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion pertains only to our continuing operations. Executive Overview This overview provides a high-level discussion of our business and growth strategy as well as the trends, opportunities, challenges, and risks that affect our performance and operating results. Understanding our growth strategy and the trends that affect our business provides context for the discussion of financial results and future opportunities which follows this overview. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. About Intuit Intuit creates business and financial management solutions that help simplify the business of life for small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. We organize our businesses into three reportable segments Small Business, Consumer, and Professional Tax. Small Business: This segment includes the following offerings, all targeting the small business market. QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software for small businesses and the accounting professionals who serve small businesses. Small business payroll and employee management products and services. Payment processing services for small businesses, including merchant services such as credit and debit card processing; Web-based transaction processing services for online merchants; secure online payments for small businesses and their customers through the Intuit Payment Network; and GoPayment mobile payment processing services. Demandforce, which provides online marketing and customer communication solutions for small businesses. Consumer: This segment includes two product lines Consumer Tax and Consumer Ecosystem both of which target consumers. Consumer Tax includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services. Consumer Ecosystem includes our personal finance offerings, Quicken, Mint, and Check. 22 Table of Contents Professional Tax: This segment targets professional accountants and includes Lacerte, ProSeries, and Intuit Tax Online professional tax products and services. Our Growth Strategy Based on our assessment of key technology and demographic trends an increasingly borderless world, the prevalence of mobile devices, and the scalability of the cloud we see significant opportunities to drive future growth by continuing to solve the unmet needs of small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. Our evolving growth strategy includes three key elements: Focus on the product we call it Delivering awesome product experiences. Computing devices are moving to the palm of our hands in the form of tablets and smart phones. Therefore, we are increasingly focused on reimagining our products with a mobile-first, and in some cases mobile-only, design. Our TurboTax solutions, for example, let customers prepare and file their entire tax returns online, via tablet, mobile phone or desktop computer. We also believe that a key factor in growing our customer base is delivering an amazing first-use experience so our customers can get the value they expect from our offerings as quickly and easily as possible. Creating network effect platforms we call it Enabling the contributions of others. We expect to solve problems faster and more efficiently for our growing base of customers by moving to more open platforms with application programming interfaces that enable the contributions of end users and third-party developers. One example of this is QuickBooks Online, which allows small business customers all over the world to localize, configure, and add value to the offering. Leveraging our data for our customers' benefit we call it Using data to create delight. Our customers generate valuable data that we seek to appropriately use to deliver better products and breakthrough benefits by eliminating the need to enter data, helping them make better decisions and improving transactions and interactions. Industry Trends and Seasonality The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future. The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers. While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase. In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services. This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses. Historically, our QuickBooks, Consumer Tax, and Professional Tax offerings have been highly seasonal. Revenue from our QuickBooks software products have tended to be highest during our second and third fiscal quarters. Sales of income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated from November through April. In our Consumer Tax business, a greater proportion of our revenue has shifted to later in this seasonal period due in part to the growth in sales of TurboTax Online, for which we recognize revenue when tax returns are printed or electronically filed. The seasonality of our Consumer Tax and Professional Tax revenue is also affected by the timing of the availability of tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions. Delays in the availability of tax forms or the ability of taxing agencies to receive submissions can cause revenue to shift between our fiscal quarters. These seasonal patterns mean that our total net revenue is usually highest during our second quarter ending January 31 and third quarter ending April 30. We typically report losses in our first quarter ending October 31 and fourth quarter ending July 31. During these quarters, revenue from our tax businesses is minimal while core operating expenses such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. In our MD&A we often focus on year-to-date results for our seasonal businesses as they are generally more meaningful than quarterly results. In August 2014 we announced that we would begin delivering ongoing releases for our future desktop software offerings in order to improve the product experience, accommodate operating system updates, and provide access to connected services. We believe that providing more frequent releases will create a better experience for customers who choose our desktop offerings, as well as a more seamless transition to our online offerings in the future. This decision affects the timing of revenue recognition for future sales of our QuickBooks and Quicken desktop products, where revenue will be recognized as services are provided over approximately three years, and our Professional Tax solutions, where revenue will be recognized as services are provided 23 Table of Contents over the tax year. We expect the seasonality of our Small Business and Professional Tax offerings to be partially mitigated by this change beginning in fiscal 2015. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Quarterly Report. Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses and transaction volume for our payment processing business. Total credit and debit card transaction volume correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment and is one of the key drivers of revenue growth in our payment processing business. Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years. Connected services (total service and other revenue) generated $3.0 billion or 66% of our total revenue in fiscal 2014 , compared with 50% of our total revenue six years ago. We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future. Total net revenue for the first three months of fiscal 2015 was $672 million , an increase of 8% compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Industry Trends and Seasonality above. Our Small Business segment was the key driver of higher revenue in the first three months of fiscal 2015 , growing 5% compared with the same period a year ago. Small Business segment revenue growth was driven by customer growth in our Small Business Online Ecosytem. Operating loss from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2015 was $114 million, an increase of 48% compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . Our operating loss was higher in fiscal 2015 due to the impact of the change to our desktop software offerings on fiscal 2015 revenue and due to higher expenses for staffing, outside services, and other operating expenses and due to higher share-based compensation expenses. Net loss from continuing operations increased 47% in the first three months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to the higher operating loss. Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2015 increased 45% to $0.29 , in line with the increase in the net loss for that period. We ended the first three months of fiscal 2015 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $1.6 billion . During the first three months of fiscal 2015 we generated cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. At October 31, 2014 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.8 billion for stock repurchases through August 19, 2017 . 24 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2014 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Except for the changes to our policy for recognizing product revenue described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, we believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2015 . Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Results of Operations Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY15 Q1 FY14 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 672 $ 622 $ 50 8 % Operating loss from continuing operations (114 ) (77 ) (37 ) 48 % Net loss from continuing operations (84 ) (57 ) (27 ) 47 % Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations $ (0.29 ) $ (0.20 ) $ (0.09 ) 45 % Total net revenue increased $50 million or 8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Industry Trends and Seasonality above. Our Small Business segment was the key driver of higher revenue in the first three months of fiscal 2015, growing 5% compared with the same period a year ago. Small Business segment revenue growth was driven by customer growth in our Small Business Online Ecosytem. See Segment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating loss from continuing operations increased 48% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . Our operating loss was higher in fiscal 2015 due to the impact of the change to our desktop software offerings on fiscal 2015 revenue and due to higher expenses for staffing, outside services, and other operating expenses and due to higher share-based compensation expenses. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net loss from continuing operations increased 47% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 due to the higher operating loss, partially offset by the effect of a slightly higher effective tax rate in the fiscal 2015 period. See Non-Operating Income and Expenses Income Taxes later in this Item 2 for more information. Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 increased 45% to $0.29 , in line with the increase in the net loss for that period. Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See Executive Overview About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was approximately 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $253 million in the first three months of fiscal 2015 and $224 million in the first three months of fiscal 2014 . Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2015 period due to increases in corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and to higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly 25 Table of Contents Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below. Small Business (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY15 Q1 FY14 % Change Product revenue $ 187 $ 192 (3 )% Service and other revenue 361 328 10 % Total segment revenue $ 548 $ 520 5 % % of total revenue 82 % 84 % Segment operating income $ 192 $ 190 1 % % of related revenue 35 % 37 % Service and other revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Online Accountant, our hosted financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Pro Plus, QuickBooks Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Accountant Plus, our subscription offerings; QuickBooks technical support plans; small business payroll services, including Quickbooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll, and QuickBooks Assisted Payroll; payment processing services for small businesses; Demandforce; and QuickBase. Product revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks desktop software products, including QuickBooks Pro, QuickBooks Premier, QuickBooks Accountant, and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions; QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; ProAdvisor Program subscriptions for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses; and financial supplies. As part of our connected services strategy, over the past several quarters we have been focusing Small Business segment resources on the enhancement and marketing of our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks desktop subscription offerings. As a result, QuickBooks desktop license units and revenue have been declining as more customers choose our hosted and subscription offerings and we expect this trend to continue. In our payments business we are focusing resources on core offerings for QuickBooks merchants in support of our small business ecosystem approach. Over the next few quarters we anticipate declining revenue for certain non-QuickBooks payments offerings that may slow overall revenue growth in our payments business. Small Business segment total net revenue increased $28 million or 5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . Small Business segment revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Industry Trends and Seasonality above. Small Business Online Ecosystem revenue grew 30%, driven by customer acquisition. QuickBooks Online customers grew 43% and online payroll customers grew 24%. Active online payments customers grew 3% and online payments charge volume grew 22%. In our Small Business Desktop Ecosystem revenue declined 2%. QuickBooks desktop unit sales were 23% lower as we continued to emphasize QuickBooks Online while QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions revenue grew 29%. Small Business segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . The increase in segment revenue described above was nearly offset by higher segment operating expenses, including $20 million for outside services and marketing programs. 26 Table of Contents Consumer (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY15 Q1 FY14 % Change Product revenue $ 16 $ 19 (15 )% Service and other revenue 72 58 24 % Total segment revenue $ 88 $ 77 15 % % of total revenue 13 % 12 % Segment operating loss $ (34 ) $ (24 ) 40 % % of related revenue (39 )% (32 )% Our Consumer segment includes our Consumer Tax and Consumer Ecosystem product lines. Consumer Tax service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services. Consumer Tax product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software. Consumer Ecosystem product revenue is derived primarily from Quicken desktop personal finance software products. Consumer Ecosystem service and other revenue is derived primarily from mobile and online consumer finance offerings as well as from online lead generation fees from our Mint personal finance offerings. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer Tax offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from consumer tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Consumer Tax product line revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Consumer segment total net revenue increased $11 million or 15% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily due to TurboTax Online offering mix. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer Tax revenue, we do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in our Consumer segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2014 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2015. In our first fiscal quarter our Consumer segment typically generates operating losses because Consumer Tax revenue is nominal while segment operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Consumer segment operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Professional Tax (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY15 Q1 FY14 % Change Product revenue $ 30 $ 18 66 % Service and other revenue 6 7 (8 )% Total segment revenue $ 36 $ 25 46 % % of total revenue 5 % 4 % Segment operating loss $ (3 ) $ (9 ) (66 )% % of related revenue (8 )% (35 )% Professional Tax segment product revenue is derived primarily from ProSeries and Lacerte professional tax preparation software products. Professional Tax service and other revenue is derived primarily from Intuit Tax Online tax return preparation services, electronic tax filing services, bank product transmission services, and training services. Due to the seasonal nature of our Professional Tax offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Professional Tax revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Professional Tax total net revenue increased $11 million or 46% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . Professional Tax revenue increased primarily because customers filed more extended tax returns in the fiscal 2015 quarter compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014. We do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2014 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2015. 27 Table of Contents In our first fiscal quarter our Professional Tax segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Professional Tax operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY15 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY14 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 34 15 % $ 29 13 % Cost of service and other revenue 131 30 % 108 27 % Amortization of acquired technology 10 n/a 6 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 175 26 % $ 143 23 % Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue increased in the first three months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to the deferral of QuickBooks and Quicken revenue described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue increased in the first three months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to higher data center costs for our online offerings. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY15 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY14 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 281 42 % $ 258 41 % Research and development 200 30 % 176 28 % General and administrative 124 18 % 118 19 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 6 1 % 4 1 % Total operating expenses $ 611 91 % $ 556 89 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue increased to 91% in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with 89% in the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 increased $50 million or 8% and total operating expenses for that quarter increased $55 million. Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Executive Overview - Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2. Staffing expenses increased about $20 million due to annual salary increases, sales commissions, and benefits. Operating expenses also increased about $29 million for outside services, equipment leases and facilities, and marketing programs, and about $14 million for share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation expenses increased due to our assumption of certain equity awards in connection with business combinations during fiscal 2014. Share-based compensation expenses have also been increasing over time because the market price of our common stock has generally been increasing. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $7 million for the first three months of fiscal 2015 and $8 million for the first three months of fiscal 2014 consisted primarily of interest on senior notes that we issued in March 2007. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. 28 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended (In millions) October 31, 2014 October 31, 2013 Interest income $ 2 $ 1 Net gain on executive deferred compensation plan assets 1 3 Other (3 ) 1 Total interest and other income, net $ $ 5 Interest and other income, net consists primarily of interest income and net gains on executive deferred compensation plan assets. Higher average invested balances and slightly higher average interest rates resulted in higher interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was approximately 31% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation and a state tax law change as well as including the effects of losses in certain jurisdictions where we do not recognize a tax benefit, our effective tax rate for the period was approximately 37% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 was approximately 29% . Excluding the impact of discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation, our effective tax rate was approximately 34% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Discontinued Operations We sold our Intuit Financial Services (IFS) business in August 2013 for approximately $1.025 billion in cash and recorded a gain on disposal of approximately $36 million , net of income taxes, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We also sold our Intuit Health business in August 2013 for cash consideration that was not significant and recorded a $4 million pre-tax loss on disposal that was more than offset by a related income tax benefit of approximately $14 million, resulting in a net gain on disposal of approximately $10 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We have reclassified our statements of operations for all periods presented to reflect these two businesses as discontinued operations. See Note 4 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At October 31, 2014 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $1.6 billion , a decrease of $325 million from July 31, 2014 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary source of liquidity has been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. 29 Table of Contents The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2014 July 31, 2014 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 1,589 $ 1,914 $ (325 ) (17 )% Long-term investments 31 31 % Long-term debt 499 499 % Working capital 1,077 1,200 (123 ) (10 )% Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.8 : 1 1.8 : 1 We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so during fiscal 2015 . Since our operations are primarily domestic, approximately 89% of our cash, cash equivalents and investments at October 31, 2014 were located in the U.S. and none of those funds were restricted. Our only significant debt consists of $500 million in senior unsecured notes due in March 2017. We also have an unused $500 million unsecured revolving line of credit facility available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these kinds of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 . See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2014 October 31, 2013 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (118 ) $ (190 ) $ 72 Investing activities (61 ) 949 (1,010 ) Financing activities (123 ) (1,350 ) 1,227 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (5 ) (1 ) (4 ) Total decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (307 ) $ (592 ) $ 285 During the first three months of fiscal 2015 we generated cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, including the payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2014, for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, for the payment of cash dividends, and for capital expenditures. During the first three months of fiscal 2014 we generated $1.0 billion in cash from the sale of our Intuit Financial Services business and used $1.4 billion in cash to repurchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. During the same period we also generated cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and used cash for operations, including the payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2013, for the payment of cash dividends, and for capital expenditures. Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2015 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At October 31, 2014 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.8 billion 30 Table of Contents for stock repurchases through August 19, 2017 . We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. In the past we have satisfied option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting under our employee equity incentive plans by reissuing treasury shares, and we may do so again in the future. During the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we began issuing new shares of common stock to satisfy option exercises and RSU vesting under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. We have not yet determined the ultimate disposition of the shares that we have repurchased in the past, and consequently we continue to hold them as treasury shares. During the first three months of fiscal 2015 we also continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. In November 2014 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 20, 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 9, 2015 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility On February 17, 2012 we entered into an agreement with certain institutional lenders for a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 17, 2017. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for a description of the key terms of this agreement, including the covenants. We remained in compliance with those covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2014 . We may use amounts borrowed under this credit facility for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. To date we have not borrowed under the credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $1.6 billion at October 31, 2014 . Of this amount, approximately 11% was held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada, India, and the United Kingdom. We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At October 31, 2014 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2014 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes in those obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2015 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. 31 Table of Contents