ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) includes the following sections: Executive Overview that discusses at a high level our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations that includes a more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources which discusses key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see Item 1A in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2014 . In August 2013 we completed the sales of our Intuit Financial Services (IFS) business and our Intuit Health business. We have reclassified our statements of operations for all periods presented to reflect these two businesses as discontinued operations. Because the operating cash flows of our IFS and Intuit Health discontinued operations were not material for any period presented, we have not segregated them from continuing operations on our statements of cash flows. See Results of Operations Discontinued Operations later in this Item 2 for more information. Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion pertains only to our continuing operations. Executive Overview This overview provides a high-level discussion of our business and growth strategy as well as the trends, opportunities, challenges, and risks that affect our performance and operating results. Understanding our growth strategy and the trends that affect our business provides context for the discussion of financial results and future opportunities which follows this overview. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. About Intuit Intuit creates business and financial management solutions that help simplify the business of life for small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. We organize our businesses into three reportable segments Small Business, Consumer, and Professional Tax. Small Business: This segment includes the following offerings, which target small businesses and the accounting professionals who serve them. QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll and employee management solutions, and payment processing solutions. Demandforce online marketing and customer communication solutions for small businesses. Consumer: This segment includes two product lines Consumer Tax and Consumer Ecosystem both of which target consumers. Consumer Tax includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services. Consumer Ecosystem includes our personal finance offerings, Quicken, Mint, and Mint Bills. Professional Tax: This segment targets professional accountants and includes Lacerte, ProSeries, and Intuit Tax Online professional tax products and services. 22 Table of Contents Our Growth Strategy Based on our assessment of key technology and demographic trends an increasingly borderless world, the prevalence of mobile devices, and the scalability of the cloud we see significant opportunities to drive future growth by continuing to solve the unmet needs of small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. Our evolving growth strategy includes three key elements: Focus on the product we call it Delivering awesome product experiences. Computing devices are moving to the palm of our hands in the form of tablets and smart phones. Our TurboTax solutions, for example, let customers prepare and file their entire tax returns online, via tablet, mobile phone, or desktop computer. We also believe that a key factor in growing our customer base is delivering an amazing first-use experience so our customers can get the value they expect from our offerings as quickly and easily as possible. Creating network effect platforms we call it Enabling the contributions of others. We expect to solve problems faster and more efficiently for our growing base of customers by moving to more open platforms with application programming interfaces that enable the contributions of end users and third-party developers. One example of this is QuickBooks Online, which allows small business customers all over the world to localize, configure, and add value to the offering. Leveraging our data for our customers' benefit we call it Using data to create delight. Our customers generate valuable data that we seek to appropriately use to deliver better products and breakthrough benefits by eliminating the need to enter data, helping them make better decisions and improving transactions and interactions. Industry Trends and Seasonality The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future. The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers. While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase. In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services. This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses. Historically, our QuickBooks, Consumer Tax, and Professional Tax offerings have been highly seasonal. Revenue from our QuickBooks software products have tended to be highest during our second and third fiscal quarters. Sales of income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated from November through April. In our Consumer Tax business, a greater proportion of our revenue has shifted to later in this seasonal period due in part to the growth in sales of TurboTax Online, for which we recognize revenue when tax returns are printed or electronically filed. The seasonality of our Consumer Tax and Professional Tax revenue is also affected by the timing of the availability of tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions. Delays in the availability of tax forms or the ability of taxing agencies to receive submissions can cause revenue to shift between our fiscal quarters. These seasonal patterns mean that our total net revenue is usually highest during our second quarter ending January 31 and third quarter ending April 30. We typically report losses in our first quarter ending October 31 and fourth quarter ending July 31. During these quarters, revenue from our tax businesses is minimal while core operating expenses such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. In our MD&A we often focus on year-to-date results for our seasonal businesses as they are generally more meaningful than quarterly results. In August 2014 we announced that we would begin delivering ongoing releases for our future desktop software offerings in order to improve the product experience, accommodate operating system updates, and provide access to connected services. We believe that providing more frequent releases will create a better experience for customers who choose our desktop offerings, as well as a more seamless transition to our online offerings in the future. This decision affects the timing of revenue recognition for future sales of our QuickBooks and Quicken desktop products, where revenue will be recognized as services are provided over approximately three years, and our Professional Tax solutions, where revenue will be recognized as services are provided over the tax year. The seasonality of our Small Business and Professional Tax offerings is partially mitigated by this change. 23 Table of Contents Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. During this tax season, state taxing authorities, the IRS, and the tax preparation industry experienced an increase in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds at the federal level and expanding into the state level. In the third quarter of fiscal 2015, we and certain states took the precautionary step of suspending the electronic filing of state tax returns for a short period of time to assess this activity and the measures used to combat it. As part of this effort, we implemented additional security measures in our products and began working with state governments to share information regarding suspicious filings while continuing to share such information with the federal government. In addition, as a result of recent events and with the continued focus on the growing industry-wide challenge of cyberfraud during this tax season, Intuit has been contacted by regulatory authorities, including Congress, the Federal Trade Commission, the SEC and the Department of Justice. As previously disclosed, Intuit is cooperating with all such inquiries, including formal requests for information. Going forward, we expect to continue to invest in security and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. While we have experienced negative publicity associated with this industry-wide issue, we do not believe our recent financial performance has been materially adversely impacted by this fraudulent activity or by the actions we have taken to combat it. However, there can be no assurance that our future financial performance will not be adversely impacted. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Quarterly Report. Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses and transaction volume for our payment processing business. Total credit and debit card transaction volume correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment and is one of the key drivers of revenue growth in our payment processing business. Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years. Connected services (total service and other revenue) generated $3.0 billion or 66% of our total revenue in fiscal 2014 , compared with 50% of our total revenue six years ago. We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future. Total net revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 was $3.7 billion , a decrease of 3% compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Industry Trends and Seasonality above. Revenue in our Small Business segment decreased 1% compared with the same period a year ago due to the impact of this change on our QuickBooks desktop offerings, which more than offset QuickBooks Online revenue growth. The change to our desktop software offerings also impacted our Professional Tax segment, whose revenue decreased 55% compared with the same period a year ago. Revenue in our Consumer segment increased 6% in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 due to 9% growth in U.S. federal TurboTax units, partially offset by lower Quicken desktop revenue. Operating income from continuing operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 decreased 49% compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . Our operating income was lower in fiscal 2015 due to the impact of the change to our desktop software offerings on fiscal 2015 revenue and due to higher expenses for staffing, advertising and other marketing programs, outside services, and share-based compensation. We also recorded a $263 million charge to operating expense for the impairment of goodwill in our Consumer Ecosystem reporting unit in the third quarter of fiscal 2015. 24 Table of Contents Net income from continuing operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 decreased 61% compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to the decrease in operating income and a higher effective tax rate that related to the goodwill impairment charge in the fiscal 2015 period. Diluted net income per share from continuing operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 decreased 60% to $1.22 , in line with the decrease in net income. We ended the first nine months of fiscal 2015 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $2.1 billion . During the first nine months of fiscal 2015 we generated cash from operations, net sales of investments, and the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. At April 30, 2015 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $634 million for stock repurchases through August 19, 2017 . On May 19, 2015 our Board approved a new stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to an additional $2 billion of our common stock from time to time over a four-year period ending on May 19, 2019. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2014 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Except for the changes to our policy for recognizing product revenue described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, we believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first nine months of fiscal 2015 . Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Goodwill, Intangible Assets, and Other Long-Lived Assets - Impairment Assessments During the third quarter of fiscal 2015 there was a significant decline in the revenue and operating income forecast for our Mint Bills (formerly Check, Inc.) offering due to the performance of Check's existing channels. As a result of this development, we performed an interim impairment test of goodwill and acquired intangible assets for our Consumer Ecosystem reporting unit. We concluded that the carrying value of goodwill associated with that reporting unit was impaired and we recorded an impairment charge of $263 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2015. See Fair Value Measurements Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis , in Note 2 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. After evaluating the performance of Check's existing channels, we made a strategic decision to increase our focus on integrating the Check bill pay solution into our Mint and Quicken offerings to leverage the strength of Intuit's channels. We also decided to reduce our focus on Check's biller and direct pay channels. The impairment analysis that we performed during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 took these strategic decisions into account. The market for payment solutions is dynamic and competition is intense. If we experience delays in integrating the Check bill pay solution into our Mint and Quicken offerings the fair value of our Consumer Ecosystem reporting unit could decline further and we may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges in the future. Results of Operations Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q3 FY15 Q3 FY14 $ Change % Change YTD Q3 FY15 YTD Q3 FY14 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 2,194 $ 2,388 $ (194 ) (8 )% $ 3,674 $ 3,792 $ (118 ) (3 )% Operating income from continuing operations 906 1,494 (588 ) (39 )% 694 1,371 (677 ) (49 )% Net income from continuing operations 501 984 (483 ) (49 )% 351 890 (539 ) (61 )% Diluted net income per share from continuing operations $ 1.78 $ 3.39 $ (1.61 ) (47 )% $ 1.22 $ 3.06 $ (1.84 ) (60 )% 25 Table of Contents Current Fiscal Quarter Total net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased $194 million or 8% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Industry Trends and Seasonality above. Small Business segment revenue decreased 5% compared with the same period a year ago due to the impact of this change on our QuickBooks desktop offerings, which more than offset QuickBooks Online revenue growth. The change to our desktop software offerings also impacted our Professional Tax segment, whose revenue decreased 61% compared with the same period a year ago. Revenue in our Consumer segment increased 3% in the third quarter of fiscal 2015. U.S. federal TurboTax unit growth of 6% was partially offset by the impact of the earlier start to the fiscal 2015 tax season compared with the previous year. See Segment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating income from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased 39% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . Our operating income was lower in fiscal 2015 due to the impact of the change to our desktop software offerings on fiscal 2015 revenue and due to higher expenses for staffing, advertising and other marketing programs, outside services, and share-based compensation. We also recorded a $263 million charge to operating expense for the impairment of goodwill in our Consumer Ecosystem reporting unit. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net income from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased 49% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 due to the decrease in operating income and a higher effective tax rate that related to the goodwill impairment charge in the fiscal 2015 period. See Non-Operating Income and Expenses Income Taxes later in this Item 2 for more information. Diluted net income per share from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased 47% to $1.78 , in line with the decrease in net income for that period. Fiscal Year to Date Total net revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 decreased $118 million or 3% compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Industry Trends and Seasonality above. Small Business segment revenue decreased 1% compared with the same period a year ago due to the impact of this change on our QuickBooks desktop offerings, which more than offset QuickBooks Online revenue growth. The change to our desktop software offerings also impacted our Professional Tax segment, whose revenue decreased 55% compared with the same period a year ago. Revenue in our Consumer segment increased 6% in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 due to 9% growth in U.S. federal TurboTax units, partially offset by lower Quicken desktop revenue. See Segment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating income from continuing operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 decreased 49% compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . Our operating income was lower in fiscal 2015 due to the impact of the change to our desktop software offerings on fiscal 2015 revenue and due to higher expenses for staffing, advertising and other marketing programs, outside services, and share-based compensation. We also recorded a $263 million charge to operating expense for the impairment of goodwill in our Consumer Ecosystem reporting unit. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net income from continuing operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 decreased 61% compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to the decrease in operating income and a higher effective tax rate that related to the goodwill impairment charge in the fiscal 2015 period. See Non-Operating Income and Expenses Income Taxes later in this Item 2 for more information. Diluted net income per share from continuing operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 decreased 60% to $1.22 , in line with the decrease in net income for that period. Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See Executive Overview About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 6% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $748 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 and $656 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2014 . Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2015 period due to increases in corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and to higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and 26 Table of Contents goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary slightly from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below. Small Business (Dollars in millions) Q3 FY15 Q3 FY14 % Change YTD Q3 FY15 YTD Q3 FY14 % Change Product revenue $ 162 $ 218 (26 )% $ 529 $ 631 (16 )% Service and other revenue 377 351 7 % 1,111 1,018 9 % Total segment revenue $ 539 $ 569 (5 )% $ 1,640 $ 1,649 (1 )% % of total revenue 25 % 24 % 45 % 44 % Segment operating income $ 162 $ 224 (28 )% $ 526 $ 611 (14 )% % of related revenue 30 % 39 % 32 % 37 % Service and other revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Online Accountant, our hosted financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Pro Plus, QuickBooks Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Accountant Plus, our subscription offerings; QuickBooks technical support plans; small business payroll services, including Quickbooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll, and QuickBooks Assisted Payroll; payment processing services for small businesses; Demandforce; and QuickBase. Product revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks desktop software products, including QuickBooks Pro, QuickBooks Premier, QuickBooks Accountant, and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions; QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; ProAdvisor Program subscriptions for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses; and financial supplies. As part of our connected services strategy, over the past several quarters we have been focusing Small Business segment resources on the enhancement and marketing of our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks desktop subscription offerings. As a result, QuickBooks desktop license units and revenue have been declining as more customers choose our hosted and subscription offerings and we expect this trend to continue. In our payments business we are focusing resources on core offerings for QuickBooks merchants in support of our small business ecosystem approach. Over the next few quarters we anticipate declining revenue for certain non-QuickBooks payments offerings that may slow overall revenue growth in our payments business. Small Business segment total net revenue decreased $30 million or 5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2014 due to the impact of the change to our QuickBooks desktop offerings described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality above, which more than offset QuickBooks Online revenue growth. Small Business Online Ecosystem revenue grew 20%, driven by customer acquisition. QuickBooks Online customers grew 55% and online payroll customers grew 20%. Active online payments customers grew 6% and online payments charge volume grew 19%. In our Small Business Desktop Ecosystem revenue declined 15%. QuickBooks desktop unit sales were 23% lower as we continued to emphasize QuickBooks Online while QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions revenue grew 20%. Small Business segment total net revenue decreased $9 million or 1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to the impact of the change to our QuickBooks desktop offerings described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality above, which more than offset QuickBooks Online revenue growth. Small Business Online Ecosystem revenue grew 25%, driven by customer acquisition. QuickBooks Online customers grew 55% and online payroll customers grew 20%. Active online payments customers grew 6% and online payments charge volume grew 21%. In our Small Business Desktop Ecosystem revenue declined 9%. QuickBooks desktop unit sales were 24% lower as we continued to emphasize QuickBooks Online while QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions revenue grew 26%. Small Business segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2014 . These decreases were due to the impact of the changes to our desktop software offerings on segment revenue and cost of revenue. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Small Business segment operating income was affected to a lesser extent by higher segment operating expenses for outside services and advertising and other marketing programs. 27 Table of Contents Consumer (Dollars in millions) Q3 FY15 Q3 FY14 % Change YTD Q3 FY15 YTD Q3 FY14 % Change Product revenue $ 191 $ 230 (17 )% $ 216 $ 282 (23 )% Service and other revenue 1,334 1,255 6 % 1,641 1,467 12 % Total segment revenue $ 1,525 $ 1,485 3 % $ 1,857 $ 1,749 6 % % of total revenue 69 % 62 % 50 % 46 % Segment operating income $ 1,192 $ 1,199 (1 )% $ 1,184 $ 1,172 1 % % of related revenue 78 % 81 % 64 % 67 % NM = Not meaningful. Our Consumer segment includes our Consumer Tax and Consumer Ecosystem product lines. Consumer Tax service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services. Consumer Tax product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software. Consumer Ecosystem product revenue is derived primarily from Quicken desktop personal finance software products. Consumer Ecosystem service and other revenue is derived primarily from mobile and online consumer finance offerings as well as from online lead generation fees from our Mint personal finance offerings. Within the Consumer segment, revenue for our Consumer Tax product line increased 4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . U.S. federal TurboTax unit growth of 6% excluding Free File Alliance federal units was partially offset by the impact of the earlier start to the fiscal 2015 tax season compared with the previous year. The IRS began accepting federal income tax returns on January 20, 2015, several days before the end of our second fiscal quarter. In comparison, in the previous year the IRS began accepting federal income tax returns on January 31, 2014, the last day of our second fiscal quarter. We believe the later start to the fiscal 2014 tax filing season had the effect of delaying some consumer purchases of tax software and filing of federal returns. In addition, while we were able to process all of the income tax returns we received during the second quarter of fiscal 2015 during that quarter, we were unable to process all of the state income tax returns we received during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 on the last day of that quarter. As a result, we deferred recognizing approximately $40 million in Consumer Tax revenue from the second quarter of fiscal 2014 to the third quarter of fiscal 2014. Revenue for our Consumer Tax product line increased 9% in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to 9% growth in U.S. federal T urboTax units excluding Free File Alliance federal units. Online U.S. federal units represented approximately 82% of total TurboTax U.S. federal units for the 2014 tax season to date, up from approximately 80% for the comparable portion of the 2013 tax season. Revenue for our Consumer Ecosystem product line decreased 25% in the third quarter of fiscal 2015 and 26% in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2014 . Quicken revenue was lower in both periods due to the change to our desktop software offerings described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality above. Consumer segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to higher expenses for staffing and advertising and other marketing programs. Professional Tax (Dollars in millions) Q3 FY15 Q3 FY14 % Change YTD Q3 FY15 YTD Q3 FY14 % Change Product revenue $ 94 $ 287 (67 )% $ 133 $ 338 (60 )% Service and other revenue 36 47 (25 )% 44 56 (22 )% Total segment revenue $ 130 $ 334 (61 )% $ 177 $ 394 (55 )% % of total revenue 6 % 14 % 5 % 10 % Segment operating income $ 83 $ 294 (72 )% $ 43 $ 276 (85 )% % of related revenue 64 % 88 % 24 % 70 % 28 Table of Contents Professional Tax segment product revenue is derived primarily from ProSeries and Lacerte professional tax preparation software products. Professional Tax service and other revenue is derived primarily from Intuit Tax Online tax return preparation services, electronic tax filing services, bank product transmission services, and training services. Professional Tax total net revenue decreased $204 million or 61% in the third quarter of fiscal 2015 and $217 million or 55% in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2014 because of the change to our desktop software offerings described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality above. Professional Tax customers grew about 1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . Professional Tax segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 primarily as a result of the revenue decrease described above. Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q3 FY15 % of Related Revenue Q3 FY14 % of Related Revenue YTD Q3 FY15 % of Related Revenue YTD Q3 FY14 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 35 8 % $ 34 5 % $ 113 13 % $ 108 9 % Cost of service and other revenue 173 10 % 130 8 % 457 16 % 363 14 % Amortization of acquired technology 11 n/a 6 n/a 30 n/a 18 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 219 10 % $ 170 7 % $ 600 16 % $ 489 13 % Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue increased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to the deferral of QuickBooks, Quicken, and Professional Tax revenue described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue increased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to higher customer care costs for our Small Business Online Ecosystem. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q3 FY15 % of Total Net Revenue Q3 FY14 % of Total Net Revenue YTD Q3 FY15 % of Total Net Revenue YTD Q3 FY14 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 448 20 % $ 412 17 % $ 1,105 30 % $ 1,022 27 % Research and development 217 10 % 186 8 % 617 17 % 548 15 % General and administrative 135 7 % 121 5 % 377 10 % 348 9 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 6 % 5 % 18 1 % 14 % Goodwill impairment charge 263 12 % % 263 7 % % Total operating expenses $ 1,069 49 % $ 724 30 % $ 2,380 65 % $ 1,932 51 % Current Fiscal Quarter Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue increased to 49% in the third quarter of fiscal 2015 from 30% in the same quarter of fiscal 2014 . Total net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 decreased $194 million or 8% and total operating expenses for that quarter increased $82 million, excluding the goodwill impairment charge. Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2. General and administrative expenses were partially offset by a $30 million pre-tax net gain on the sale of certain assets related to our Payments business. Staffing expenses increased about $51 million due to higher 29 Table of Contents headcount. Operating expenses also increased about $18 million for outside services, about $17 million for advertising and other marketing programs, and about $13 million for share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation expenses were higher in the fiscal 2015 quarter due to our assumption of certain equity awards in connection with recent business combinations. Share-based compensation expenses have also been increasing over time because the market price of our common stock has generally been increasing. As described in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates earlier in this Item 2, we recorded a $263 million charge to operating expense for the impairment of goodwill in our Consumer Ecosystem reporting unit during the third quarter of fiscal 2015. Fiscal Year to Date Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue increased to 65% in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 from 51% in the same period of fiscal 2014 . Total net revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 decreased $118 million or 3% and total operating expenses for that period increased $185 million, excluding the goodwill impairment charge. Total net revenue growth was affected by the change to our desktop software offerings described in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2. General and administrative expenses were partially offset by a $30 million pre-tax net gain on the sale of certain assets related to our Payments business. Staffing expenses increased about $95 million due to higher headcount. Operating expenses also increased about $39 million for advertising and other marketing programs, about $31 million for outside services, and about $36 million for share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation expenses were higher in the fiscal 2015 period due to our assumption of certain equity awards in connection with recent business combinations. Share-based compensation expenses have also been increasing over time because the market price of our common stock has generally been increasing. As described in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates earlier in this Item 2, we recorded a $263 million charge to operating expense for the impairment of goodwill in our Consumer Ecosystem reporting unit during the third quarter of fiscal 2015. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $21 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 and $24 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2014 consisted primarily of interest on senior notes that we issued in March 2007. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (In millions) April 30, 2015 April 30, 2014 April 30, 2015 April 30, 2014 Interest income $ 2 $ 2 $ 6 $ 4 Net gain on executive deferred compensation plan assets 2 2 3 5 Other (3 ) (1 ) (6 ) (1 ) Total interest and other income, net $ 1 $ 3 $ 3 $ 8 Interest and other income, net for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2015 consists primarily of interest income and net gains on executive deferred compensation plan assets. Interest income in the third quarter of fiscal 2015 was flat compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 due to lower average invested balances and higher average interest rates. Higher average invested balances and higher average interest rates resulted in higher interest income in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of fiscal 2014 . In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. In December 2014 the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 was signed into law. The Act includes a reinstatement of the federal research and experimentation credit through December 31, 2014 that was retroactive to January 1, 2014. We recorded a discrete tax benefit of approximately $11 million for the retroactive effect during the second quarter of fiscal 2015. 30 Table of Contents Our effective tax rates for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2015 were approximately 44% and 48% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to the goodwill impairment charge, our effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was approximately 36% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to the goodwill impairment charge and the reinstatement of the federal research and experimentation credit, our effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 was approximately 36% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . Our effective tax rates for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2014 were approximately 34% and those tax rates did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%. See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Discontinued Operations We sold our Intuit Financial Services (IFS) business in August 2013 for approximately $1.025 billion in cash and recorded a $44 million pre-tax gain on disposal that was partially offset by a related income tax provision of approximately $8 million, resulting in a net gain on disposal of approximately $36 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We also sold our Intuit Health business in August 2013 for cash consideration that was not significant and recorded a $4 million pre-tax loss on disposal that was more than offset by a related income tax benefit of approximately $14 million, resulting in a net gain on disposal of approximately $10 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We have reclassified our statements of operations for all periods presented to reflect these two businesses as discontinued operations. See Note 4 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At April 30, 2015 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $2.1 billion , an increase of $170 million from July 31, 2014 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary source of liquidity has been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) April 30, 2015 July 31, 2014 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 2,084 $ 1,914 $ 170 9 % Long-term investments 32 31 1 3 % Long-term debt 499 499 % Working capital 741 1,200 (459 ) (38 )% Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.3 : 1 1.8 : 1 We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so during the balance of fiscal 2015 and during fiscal 2016. Since our operations are primarily domestic, approximately 91% of our cash, cash equivalents and investments at April 30, 2015 were located in the U.S. and none of those funds were restricted. Our only significant debt consists of $500 million in senior unsecured notes due in March 2017. We also have an unused $500 million unsecured revolving line of credit facility available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these kinds of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. 31 Table of Contents Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 . See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods. Nine Months Ended (Dollars in millions) April 30, 2015 April 30, 2014 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,722 $ 1,530 $ 192 Investing activities (95 ) 419 (514 ) Financing activities (1,266 ) (1,377 ) 111 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (17 ) (7 ) (10 ) Total increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 344 $ 565 $ (221 ) During the first nine months of fiscal 2015 we generated cash from operations, net sales of investments, and the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. We expect to pay approximately $180 million in income taxes during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. During the first nine months of fiscal 2014 we generated $1.0 billion in cash from the sale of our Intuit Financial Services business and used $1.4 billion in cash to repurchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. See Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock immediately below for more information. During the same period we also generated cash from operations and the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and used cash for net purchases of investments, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first nine months of fiscal 2015 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At April 30, 2015 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $634 million for stock repurchases through August 19, 2017 . On May 19, 2015 our Board approved a new stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to an additional $2 billion of our common stock from time to time over a four-year period ending on May 19, 2019. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. In the past we have satisfied option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting under our employee equity incentive plans by reissuing treasury shares, and we may do so again in the future. During the second quarter of fiscal 2014 we began issuing new shares of common stock to satisfy option exercises and RSU vesting under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. We have not yet determined the ultimate disposition of the shares that we have repurchased in the past, and consequently we continue to hold them as treasury shares. During the first nine months of fiscal 2015 we also continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. In May 2015 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share of outstanding common stock payable on July 20, 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 10, 2015 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility On February 17, 2012 we entered into an agreement with certain institutional lenders for a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 17, 2017. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for a description of the key terms of this agreement, including the covenants. We remained in compliance with those covenants at all times during the quarter ended April 30, 2015 . We may use amounts borrowed under this credit facility for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. To date we have not borrowed under the credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. 32 Table of Contents Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $2.1 billion at April 30, 2015 . Of this amount, approximately 9% was held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada, India, and the United Kingdom. We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At April 30, 2015 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2014 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes in those obligations during the first nine months of fiscal 2015 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. 33 Table of Contents