ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) includes the following sections: Executive Overview that discusses at a high level our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations that includes a more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources which discusses key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see Item 1A in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2013 . We sold our Intuit Websites business in September 2012. In August 2013 we completed the sales of our Intuit Financial Services (IFS) business and our Intuit Health business. We have reclassified our statements of operations for all periods presented to reflect these three businesses as discontinued operations. We have also segregated the net assets of IFS from continuing operations on our balance sheet at July 31, 2013. The net assets of Intuit Websites and Intuit Health were not significant, so we have not segregated them from continuing operations on our balance sheet at July 31, 2013. Because the operating cash flows of our Intuit Websites, IFS, and Intuit Health discontinued operations were not material for any period presented, we have not segregated them from continuing operations on our statements of cash flows. See Results of Operations Discontinued Operations later in this Item 2 for more information. Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion pertains only to our continuing operations. Executive Overview This overview provides a high-level discussion of our business and growth strategy as well as the trends, opportunities, challenges, and risks that affect our performance and operating results. Understanding our growth strategy and the trends that affect our business provides context for the discussion of financial results and future opportunities which follows this overview. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. About Intuit Intuit is a leading provider of business and financial management solutions for small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. As discussed in Item 1, Business Overview Our Business Portfolio, in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2013, effective August 1, 2013 we reorganized our businesses to align with our strategic focus on small businesses, consumers, and professional accountants. We also aligned our international businesses, all of which were in our former Other Businesses segment, into their respective lines of business and we are now managing those international businesses within their respective reportable segments. As a result of this reorganization, we now organize our businesses into three reportable segments Small Business, Consumer, and Professional Tax. Small Business: This segment includes three main product lines Small Business Financial Solutions, Small Business Management Solutions, and Accountant and Advisor targeting the small business market. Our Small Business Financial Solutions product line includes QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software; QuickBooks technical support; and financial supplies. This product line also includes several payment processing services for small businesses, including merchant services such as credit and debit card processing; Web-based transaction processing services for online merchants; GoPayment mobile payment processing services; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; and secure online payments for small businesses and their customers through the Intuit Payment Network. Our Small Business Management Solutions product line includes small business payroll products and services and Demandforce, which provides online marketing and customer communication solutions. 21 Table of Contents Our Accountant and Advisor product line includes QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition and the QuickBooks ProAdvisor Program, both intended for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses. Consumer: This segment includes two product lines Consumer Tax and Consumer Ecosystem targeting consumers. Consumer Tax includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services. Consumer Ecosystem includes our personal finance offerings, Quicken and Mint. Professional Tax: This segment targets professional accountants and includes Lacerte, ProSeries, and Intuit Tax Online professional tax products and services. Our Growth Strategy Based on our assessment of key technology and demographic trends an increasingly borderless world, the prevalence of mobile devices, and the scalability of the cloud we see significant opportunities to drive future growth by continuing to solve the unmet needs of small businesses, consumers, and accounting professionals. Our evolving growth strategy includes three key elements: Focus on the product we call it Delivering awesome product experiences. Computing devices are moving to the palm of our hands in the form of tablets and smart phones. Therefore, we are increasingly focused on reimagining our products with a mobile-first, and in some cases mobile-only, design. Our TurboTax solutions, for example, let customers prepare and file their entire tax returns online, via tablet, mobile phone or desktop computer. We also believe that a key factor in growing our customer base is delivering an amazing first-use experience so our customers can get the value they expect from our offerings as quickly and easily as possible. Creating network effect platforms we call it Enabling the contributions of others. We expect to solve problems faster and more efficiently for our growing base of customers by moving to more open platforms with application programming interfaces that enable the contributions of end users and third-party developers. One example of this is QuickBooks Online, which allows small business customers all over the world to localize, configure, and add value to the offering. Leveraging our data for our customers' benefit we call it Using data to create delight. Our 45 million customers are generating valuable data that we seek to appropriately use to deliver better products and breakthrough benefits by eliminating the need to enter data, helping them make better decisions and improving transactions and interactions. Industry Trends and Seasonality The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future. The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers. While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase. In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services. This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses. Our QuickBooks, Consumer Tax, and Professional Tax offerings are highly seasonal. Revenue from our QuickBooks software products tends to be highest during our second and third fiscal quarters. Sales of income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated from November through April. In our Consumer Tax business, a greater proportion of our revenue has shifted to later in this seasonal period due in part to the growth in sales of TurboTax Online, for which we recognize revenue when tax returns are printed or electronically filed. The seasonality of our Consumer Tax and Professional Tax revenue is also affected by the timing of the availability of tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions. Delays in the availability of tax forms or the ability of taxing agencies to receive submissions can cause revenue to shift between our fiscal quarters. These seasonal patterns mean that our total net revenue is usually highest during our second quarter ending January 31 and third quarter ending April 30. We typically report losses in our first quarter ending October 31 and fourth quarter ending July 31. During these quarters, revenue from our tax businesses is minimal while core operating expenses such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We believe the seasonality of 22 Table of Contents our revenue and profitability is likely to continue in the future. In our MD&A we often focus on year-to-date results for our seasonal businesses as they are generally more meaningful than quarterly results. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Quarterly Report. Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reporting segment, and for product lines within each reporting segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reporting segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of business segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention, and, in certain businesses, transaction volume. Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years. Connected services generated $2.7 billion or 64% of our total revenue in fiscal 2013, compared with 50% of our total revenue five years ago. We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future. We track transaction volume in businesses such as our payment processing business, where total credit and debit card transaction volume, which correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment, contributes to revenue growth. Total net revenue for the first three months of fiscal 2014 was $622 million , an increase of 11% compared with the same period of fiscal 2013 . Our Small Business segment was the key driver of revenue growth in the first three months of fiscal 2014 . Revenue in our Small Business segment grew 11% compared with the same period a year ago due to growth in connected services offerings such as QuickBooks Online, payment processing services, and online payroll services. Operating loss from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2014 was $77 million , an increase of 5% compared with the same period of fiscal 2013 . Higher revenue was more than offset by higher costs and expenses. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 we accelerated some spending for our customer data strategy and small business marketing to drive growth during the rest of fiscal 2014. As a result, expenses grew slightly faster than revenue in the quarter. Net loss from continuing operations increased 6% in the first three months of fiscal 2014 compared with the same period of fiscal 2013 due to the higher operating loss and a lower effective tax rate on the pre-tax loss. Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first three months of fiscal 2014 increased $0.02 to $0.20 due to the higher net loss and the decline in weighted average basic and diluted common shares compared with the same period of fiscal 2013. We ended the first three months of fiscal 2014 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $1.1 billion . During the first three months of fiscal 2014 we generated $1.0 billion in cash from the sale of our Intuit Financial Services business and used $1.4 billion in cash for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. During the same period we generated cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and used cash for operations, the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. At October 31, 2013 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.0 billion for stock repurchases through August 19, 2017 . 23 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2013 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. We believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2014 . Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Results of Operations Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY14 Q1 FY13 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 622 $ 562 $ 60 11 % Operating loss from continuing operations (77 ) (73 ) (4 ) 5 % Net loss from continuing operations (57 ) (54 ) (3 ) 6 % Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations $ (0.20 ) $ (0.18 ) $ (0.02 ) 11 % Total net revenue increased $60 million or 11% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 . Our Small Business segment was the key driver of the revenue increase, growing 11% . Within the Small Business segment, revenue from our Small Business Financial Solutions product line increased 9% due to continuing growth in QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions revenue and to higher total card transaction volume in our payment processing business. Revenue from our Small Business Management Solutions product line increased 15% due to price increases for desktop payroll customers and online payroll customer growth; and due to growth in Demandforce customers and revenue. See Business Segment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our business segments. Operating loss from continuing operations increased 5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 . In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 we accelerated some spending for our customer data strategy and small business marketing to drive growth during the rest of fiscal 2014. As a result, expenses grew slightly faster than revenue in the quarter. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net loss from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 increased 6% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 due to the higher operating loss and a lower effective tax rate on the pre-tax loss. Basic and diluted net loss per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 increased $0.02 to $0.20 due to the higher net loss and the decline in weighted average basic and diluted common shares compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013. See Non-Operating Income and Expenses Income Taxes and Liquidity and Capital Resources Stock Repurchase Programs and Dividends on Common Stock, later in this Item 2 for more information. Business Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable business segments. See Executive Overview - About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our business segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was approximately 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment 24 Table of Contents expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $224 million in the first three months of fiscal 2014 and $199 million in the first three months of fiscal 2013 . Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2014 period due to increases in corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below. Small Business (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY14 Q1 FY13 % Change Product revenue $ 192 $ 187 3 % Service and other revenue 328 282 16 % Total segment revenue $ 520 $ 469 11 % % of total revenue 84 % 83 % Segment operating income $ 190 $ 165 15 % % of related revenue 37 % 35 % Our Small Business segment includes our Small Business Financial Solutions (SBFS), Small Business Management Solutions (SBMS), and Accountant and Advisor product lines. Service and other revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks Online, our hosted financial and business management offering; QuickBooks technical support plans; payment processing services for small businesses; small business payroll services, including Quickbooks Online Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, and Intuit Full Service Payroll; Demandforce; and QuickBase. Product revenue in our Small Business segment is derived primarily from QuickBooks desktop software products, including QuickBooks Pro, QuickBooks Premier, QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition, and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions; financial supplies; QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; and ProAdvisor Program subscriptions for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses. Small Business segment total net revenue increased $51 million or 11% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 . Within the Small Business segment, revenue from our SBFS product line increased 9% due to 29% growth in our QuickBooks Online subscriber base and 21% growth in our QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions subscriber base. SBFS revenue also increased due to 6% higher total card transaction volume in our payment processing business. Revenue from our SBMS product line increased 15% due to price increases for desktop payroll customers and 18% online payroll customer growth. SBMS revenue also increased due to higher Demandforce revenue that was driven by 36% growth in the subscriber base. Small Business segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 . The increase in segment revenue described above was partially offset by $17 million in higher staffing expenses due to an increase in headcount and a $6 million increase in advertising and other marketing program expenses. 25 Table of Contents Consumer (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY14 Q1 FY13 % Change Product revenue $ 19 $ 23 (16 )% Service and other revenue 58 49 17 % Total segment revenue $ 77 $ 72 7 % % of total revenue 12 % 13 % Segment operating loss $ (24 ) $ (17 ) 41 % % of related revenue (32 )% (24 )% Our Consumer segment includes our Consumer Tax and Consumer Ecosystem product lines. Consumer Tax service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online hosted tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services. Consumer Tax product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software. Consumer Ecosystem product revenue is derived primarily from Quicken desktop personal finance software products. Consumer Ecosystem service and other revenue is derived primarily from fees for consumer online transactions as well as from online lead generation fees from our Mint personal finance offerings. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer Tax offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from consumer tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Consumer Tax product line revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Consumer Tax product line revenue increased $4 million or 11% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 primarily because customers filed more extended tax returns in the fiscal 2014 quarter compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer Tax product line revenue, we do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in our Consumer segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2013 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2014. Revenue for our Consumer Ecosystem product line grew 2% in the first quarter of 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 . In our first fiscal quarter our Consumer segment typically generates operating losses because Consumer Tax product line revenue is nominal while segment operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Consumer segment operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Professional Tax (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY14 Q1 FY13 % Change Product revenue $ 18 $ 17 4 % Service and other revenue 7 4 75 % Total segment revenue $ 25 $ 21 16 % % of total revenue 4 % 4 % Segment operating loss $ (9 ) $ (11 ) (23 )% % of related revenue (35 )% (53 )% Professional Tax segment product revenue is derived primarily from ProSeries and Lacerte professional tax preparation software products. Professional Tax segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from Intuit Tax Online tax return preparation services, electronic tax filing services, bank product transmission services, and training services. Due to the seasonal nature of our Professional Tax offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of Professional Tax revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Professional Tax total net revenue increased $4 million or 16% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 26 Table of Contents 2013 primarily because customers filed more extended tax returns in the fiscal 2014 quarter compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013. We do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2013 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2014. In our first fiscal quarter our Professional Tax segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Professional Tax operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY14 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY13 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 29 13 % $ 32 14 % Cost of service and other revenue 108 27 % 103 31 % Amortization of acquired technology 6 n/a 4 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 143 23 % $ 139 25 % Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue decreased slightly in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 due to product mix. Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 due to growth in connected service offerings such as QuickBooks Online, payment processing services, and online payroll services. Online revenues have relatively lower costs of revenue compared with our other service offerings. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY14 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY13 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 258 41 % $ 227 40 % Research and development 176 28 % 168 30 % General and administrative 118 19 % 94 17 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 4 1 % 7 1 % Total operating expenses $ 556 89 % $ 496 88 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue increased slightly to 89% in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 from 88% in the same quarter of fiscal 2013 . Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 grew $60 million and total operating expenses increased $60 million. Operating expenses increased about $20 million for staffing expenses associated with higher headcount and about $13 million for advertising and other marketing programs in our Small Business and Consumer segments. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $8 million for the first three months of fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 consisted primarily of interest on senior notes that we issued in March 2007. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. 27 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended (In millions) October 31, 2013 October 31, 2012 Interest income $ 1 $ 1 Net gain on executive deferred compensation plan assets 3 1 Other 1 Total interest and other income, net $ 5 $ 2 Interest and other income, net consists primarily of interest income and net gains on executive deferred compensation plan assets. Lower interest rates offset the effect of higher average invested balances and resulted in stable interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2013 . In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. Our effective tax rates for the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 were approximately 29% and 33% . Excluding the impact of discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation, our effective tax rates for those quarters were approximately 34% and 35% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . See Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Discontinued Operations We sold our Intuit Websites business in September 2012 for approximately $60 million in cash and recorded a gain on disposal of approximately $32 million, net of income taxes, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. We sold our Intuit Financial Services (IFS) business in August 2013 for approximately $1.025 billion in cash and recorded a gain on disposal of approximately $36 million , net of income taxes, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We also sold our Intuit Health business in August 2013 for cash consideration that was not significant and recorded a $4 million pre-tax loss on disposal that was more than offset by a related income tax benefit of approximately $14 million, resulting in a net gain on disposal of approximately $10 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We have reclassified our statements of operations for all periods presented to reflect these three businesses as discontinued operations. See Note 4 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At October 31, 2013 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $1.1 billion , a decrease of $545 million from July 31, 2013 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary source of liquidity has been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs, repurchases of our common stock, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The total balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. 28 Table of Contents The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2013 July 31, 2013 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 1,116 $ 1,661 $ (545 ) (33 )% Long-term investments 45 83 (38 ) (46 )% Long-term debt 499 499 % Working capital 797 1,116 (319 ) (29 )% Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.7 : 1 1.9 : 1 We expect to generate significant cash from our operations during fiscal 2014 . Since our operations are primarily domestic, approximately 87% of our cash, cash equivalents and investments at October 31, 2013 were located in the U.S. and none of those funds were restricted. Our only significant debt consists of $500 million in senior unsecured notes due in March 2017. We also have an unused $500 million unsecured revolving line of credit facility available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these kinds of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first three months of each of fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 . See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2013 October 31, 2012 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (190 ) $ (145 ) $ (45 ) Investing activities 949 949 Financing activities (1,350 ) (33 ) (1,317 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (1 ) 1 (2 ) Total decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (592 ) $ (177 ) $ (415 ) During the first three months of fiscal 2014 we generated $1.0 billion in cash from the sale of our Intuit Financial Services business and used $1.4 billion in cash to repurchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. See Stock Repurchase Programs and Dividends on Common Stock immediately below for more information. During the same period we also generated cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and used cash for operations, including the payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2013, for the payment of cash dividends, and for capital expenditures. During the first three months of fiscal 2013 we generated cash from the sale of our Intuit Websites business and from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for operations, including the payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2012, for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, for the payment of cash dividends, and for capital expenditures. Stock Repurchase Programs and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 8 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2014 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At October 31, 2013 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.0 billion 29 Table of Contents for stock repurchases through August 19, 2017 . We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. To facilitate the stock repurchase program described above, from time to time we repurchase shares in the open market. On August 23, 2013 we entered into an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement with a large financial institution to repurchase $1.4 billion of Intuit's common stock on an accelerated basis. On August 23, 2013 we paid $1.4 billion to the financial institution and received an initial delivery of 17.6 million shares of Intuit common stock. The total number of shares to be delivered will be calculated using the daily volume weighted average price of Intuit common shares traded during the pricing period, less an agreed discount. The pricing period is scheduled to end in December 2013, but it may conclude sooner at the election of the financial institution. If the total number of shares to be delivered exceeds the number of shares delivered on August 23, 2013, we will receive the remaining balance of shares from the financial institution. Based on the current trading prices of our common stock, we expect to receive additional shares. If the total number of shares to be delivered is less than the number of shares delivered on August 23, 2013, we have the contractual right to deliver to the financial institution either shares of Intuit common stock or cash equal to the value of those shares. We have reflected the shares delivered to us by the financial institution in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as treasury shares as of the date they were physically delivered in computing weighted average shares outstanding for both basic and diluted net loss per share. During the first three months of fiscal 2014 we also continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. In November 2013 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 21, 2014 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2014 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility On February 17, 2012 we entered into an agreement with certain institutional lenders for a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 17, 2017. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for a description of the key terms of this agreement, including the covenants. We remained in compliance with those covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2013 . We may use amounts borrowed under this credit facility for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. To date we have not borrowed under the credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $1.1 billion at October 31, 2013 . Of this amount, approximately 13% was held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada, and to a lesser extent in India, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At October 31, 2013 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2013 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes in those obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2014 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. 30 Table of Contents