ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide readers of our condensed consolidated financial statements with the perspectives of management. This should allow the readers of this report to obtain a comprehensive understanding of our businesses, strategies, current trends, and future prospects. Our MD&A includes the following sections: Executive Overview:High-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations: A more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources:Discussion of key aspects of our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, changes in our condensed consolidated balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I of this Quarterly Report for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2024. In the Results of Operations section of this MD&A, where we describe two or more factors that contributed to changes in revenue and operating income, we have, where possible, quantified the impact of those factors. Where a change is the result of multiple factors that are interrelated and cannot be separately quantified, we have identified the interrelated factors without quantifying them. In July 2024, our management approved, committed to, and initiated a plan of reorganization (the Plan) focused on reallocating resources to our key growth areas. The Plan includes the exit of employees and the closing of real estate sites in certain markets in service to growing technology teams and capabilities in strategic locations. The actions associated with the Plan were substantially complete in the first quarter of fiscal 2025. Total restructuring costs associated with the Plan are estimated to be approximately $237 million. During the three months ended October 31, 2024, we recorded a $9 million charge in connection with the Plan. This charge is primarily related to severance, employee benefits, and site closure costs and is recorded to restructuring in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. See Note 13, "Restructuring," for more information. See Note 12, "Segment Information," for more information. On August 1, 2024, we renamed our Small Business & Self-Employed segment as the Global Business Solutions segment. This new name better aligns with the global reach of the Mailchimp and QuickBooks platform, our focus on serving both small and mid-market businesses, and our vision to become the end-to-end platform that customers use to grow and run their business. On August 1, 2024, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions in our Global Business Solutions, Consumer, and ProTax segments that support and benefit our overall platform and are managed at that level rather than at the segment level. As a result of these reorganizations, costs associated with these functions are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2023, we reclassified expenses totaling $332 million from Global Business Solutions, $65 million from Consumer, and $8 million from ProTax to other corporate expenses to conform to the current presentation. See Note 12, "Segment Information," for more information. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. About Intuit Intuit helps consumers and small and mid-market businesses prosper by delivering financial management, compliance, and marketing products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals. We organize our businesses into four reportable segments Global Business Solutions, Consumer, Credit Karma, and ProTax. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Global Business Solutions:This segment serves small and mid-market businesses around the world, and the accounting professionals who assist and advise them. Our QuickBooks offerings include financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, time tracking, merchant payment processing and bill pay solutions, checking accounts through an FDIC member bank partner, and financing for small and mid-market businesses. Our Mailchimp offerings include marketing automation and customer relationship management. Consumer:This segment serves consumers and includes do-it-yourself and assisted TurboTax income tax preparation products and services sold in the U.S. and Canada. Credit Karma:This segment serves consumers with a personal finance platform that provides personalized recommendations of credit card, home, auto, and personal loan, and insurance products; online savings and checking accounts through an FDIC member bank partner; and access to their credit scores and reports, credit and identity monitoring, credit report dispute, credit building tools, and tools to help understand net worth and make financial progress. ProTax:This segment serves professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings include Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProConnect Tax Online in the U.S., and ProFile and ProTax Online in Canada. Our Business and Growth Strategy The era of artificial intelligence (AI) is one of the most significant technological shifts in decades, igniting global innovations at an incredible pace. Intuit made an early bet on AI, declaring its AI-driven expert platform strategy in 2019 to deliver on its mission of powering prosperity for consumers and small and mid-market businesses. Our strategy, combined with our five Big Bets that focus on the largest customer problems and growth opportunities, positions us for durable growth in the future. Our scale of data, our investment in AI capabilities such as knowledge engineering, machine learning, and generative AI (GenAI), and our network of AI-powered virtual experts give us significant advantage as we deliver reimagined customer experiences. With the introduction of GenAI, we are transforming how we strive to serve our customers by delivering done for you experiences, where we do the hard work for them, and connecting them with AI-powered human expertise to fuel their success. We use powerful and relevant contextual data sets spanning small business, consumer finance, and tax to deliver personalized financial insights to customers across our platform. Additionally, our investment in AI, GenAI, data, and world-class developer tools in particular, provides a foundation for us to accelerate productivity, innovate at scale, and move with speed to deliver benefits to our customers. This includes utilizing our own financial large language models (LLMs), as well as models from other leaders in GenAI, which together unlock new opportunities to serve our customers with accuracy and speed in a cost-efficient way. As we execute our global AI-driven expert platform strategy, we prioritize resources on our five Big Bets across the company. These priorities focus on solving the problems that matter most to customers and include: Revolutionizing speed to benefit: When customers use our products and services, we use the power of AI to deliver value instantly and aim to make interactions with our offerings frictionless, without the need for customers to manually enter data. We are accelerating the application of AI as we strive to deliver done for you experiences to our customers. This is foundational, and execution against this priority positions us to succeed with our other four Big Bets. Connecting people to experts: The largest problem our customers face is lack of confidence to file their own taxes or to manage their books. To build their confidence, we connect our customers to experts. We offer customers access to experts to help them make important decisions and experts, such as accountants, gain access to new customers so they can grow their businesses. We are also expanding our virtual expert network and broadening the segments we serve beyond tax and accounting to play a more meaningful role in our customers financial lives. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 30 Table of Contents Unlocking smart money decisions: To address the challenges of high-cost debt and lack of savings, we are creating one consumer platform with TurboTax and Credit Karma that members can use to help optimize spend, get fast access to money, and grow their wealth over time. Be the center of small business growth: Globally, we are focused on helping customers grow their businesses by offering a broad, seamless set of tools that are designed to help them get and retain customers, get paid faster, manage and get access to capital, pay employees with confidence, and use third-party apps to help run their businesses. Our money solutions enable customers to manage their money and improve cash flow. This is an important driver to improving the success of our small and mid-market business customers. Disrupt the mid-market: We aim to disrupt the mid-market with a tailor-made, integrated ecosystem, which includes our QuickBooks offerings, as well as our workforce solutions and money offerings. These solutions are designed to address the more complex needs of mid-market businesses. Mailchimps marketing offerings enable mid-market businesses to digitally promote their business across email, social media, landing pages, ads, websites, and more, all from one place. These offerings enable us to increase retention of these larger customers and accelerate mid-market demand. Industry Trends and Seasonality Industry Trends AI, including GenAI, is transforming multiple industries, in particular financial technology. Disruptive start-ups, emerging ecosystems, and mega-platforms are harnessing new technology to create personalized experiences, deliver data-driven insights, and increase speed of service. These shifts are creating a more dynamic and highly competitive environment where customer expectations are shifting around the world as more services become digitized and the array of choices continues to increase. Seasonality Our Consumer and ProTax offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are typically heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern typically results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and ProTax businesses to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to innovate, develop, and introduce emerging technologies, including AI and GenAI, to drive broad adoption of our products and services and enter new markets. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain, and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Much of our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and develop highly skilled employees, including those in technical and leadership roles who are critical to our strategic growth, in a highly competitive talent environment. As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. We operate in industries that are experiencing an increasing amount of fraudulent activities by malicious third parties. We implement additional security measures, and we continue to work with state and federal governments to implement industry-wide security and anti-fraud measures, including sharing information regarding suspicious activity. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. Our operations are impacted by a rapidly-evolving regulatory environment and face increasingly heightened scrutiny. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations covering a broad and increasing range of subjects, both in the U.S. and internationally. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; operating income growth for the company as a whole; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. Service offerings are a significant part of our business. Our total service revenue was $13.9 billion, or 85% of our total revenue, in fiscal 2024, and we expect our total service revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to grow over the long term. Key highlights for the first three months of fiscal 2025 include the following: Revenue of Global Business Solutions revenue of Cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $3.3 B $2.5 B $3.4 B up 10% from the same period of fiscal 2024 up 9% from the same period of fiscal 2024 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions, and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We believe that the estimates, assumptions, and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2024 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. There were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2025. Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 32 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY25 Q1 FY24 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 3,283 $ 2,978 $ 305 10 % Operating income 271 307 (36) (12) % Net income 197 241 (44) (18) % Diluted net income per share $ 0.70 $ 0.85 $ (0.15) (18) % Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2025 increased $305 million, or 10%, compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2024. Our Global Business Solutions segment revenue increased during the quarter due to growth in our Online Ecosystem revenue. Credit Karma segment revenue increased during the quarter due to strength in our personal loan, auto insurance, and credit card verticals. Revenue in our Consumer and ProTax segments was seasonally light, consistent with the same quarter of fiscal 2024. See Segment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2025 decreased $36 million, or 12%, compared to the same quarter of fiscal 2024. The decrease in operating income was due to an increase in expenses, partially offset by the increase in revenue described above. Expenses increased due to marketing, staffing, and outside services. See "Cost of Revenue" and Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2025 decreased $44 million, or 18%, compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2024. The decrease in net income was due to the decrease in operating income described above, a $42 million net loss on a long-term investment, partially offset by an $18 million increase in the net gains on executive deferred compensation plan assets, an $8 million increase in interest income due to higher investable balances, and a decrease in income tax expense. Diluted net income per share decreased to $0.70 for the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to $0.85 for the same quarter of fiscal 2024, in line with the decrease in net income. Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our four reportable segments. See Executive Overview About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate and sell to customers primarily in the U.S. Total international net revenue was approximately 10% of consolidated net revenue for each of the three months ended October 31, 2024 and 2023. On August 1, 2024, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions in our Global Business Solutions, Consumer, and ProTax segments that support and benefit our overall platform and are managed at that level rather than at the segment level. As a result of these reorganizations, costs associated with these functions are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2023, we reclassified expenses totaling $332 million from Global Business Solutions, $65 million from Consumer, and $8 million from ProTax to other corporate expenses to conform to the current presentation. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. We include expenses such as corporate selling and marketing, general and administrative, and non-employment related legal and litigation settlement costs, which are not allocated to specific segments, in unallocated corporate items as part of other corporate expenses. As part of our platform strategy, we also include customer success and product development for our Global Business Solutions, Consumer, and ProTax segments in unallocated corporate items as we do not allocate these expenses to the segments because they are managed at the platform level. Customer success includes the costs of tax and bookkeeping experts that support our TurboTax Live and QuickBooks Live offerings. For our Credit Karma reportable segment, segment expenses include certain direct expenses related to selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative. Unallocated corporate items for all segments include share-based compensation, amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, professional fees and transaction charges related to business combinations, and restructuring charges. These unallocated corporate costs for all segments totaled $2.0 billion in the first three months of fiscal 2025 and $1.8 billion in the first three months of fiscal 2024. Unallocated corporate items increased in the fiscal 2025 period, due to increases in general and administrative expense, product development expense, share-based compensation expense, and restructuring. See Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Global Business Solutions Global Business Solutions segment revenue includes both Online Ecosystem and Desktop Ecosystem revenue. Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from: QuickBooks Online, QuickBooks Live, QuickBooks Online Advanced, QuickBooks Self-Employed, and QuickBooks Solopreneur financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Online Payroll; Merchant payment processing and bill pay services for small and mid-market businesses that use online offerings; Mailchimps marketing automation and customer relationship management offerings; QuickBooks Checking; and Financing for small and mid-market businesses. Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from: QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); Desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); Merchant payment processing services for small and mid-market businesses that use desktop offerings; Financial supplies; and Financing for small and mid-market businesses. Segment service revenue is primarily derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue and revenue from the services and support that are provided as part of our QuickBooks Desktop subscription and desktop payroll offerings, as well as merchant payment processing services. Segment product and other revenue is primarily derived from revenue related to delivery of software licenses and the related updates, including version protection, for our QuickBooks Desktop subscriptions and desktop payroll offerings, which are part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Our money offerings consist of our merchant payment processing services, financing for small and mid-market businesses (QuickBooks Capital), and bill pay services. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY25 Q1 FY24 % Change Service revenue $ 2,168 $ 1,842 18 % Product and other revenue 376 502 (25) % Total segment revenue $ 2,544 $ 2,344 9 % % of total revenue 78 % 79 % Segment operating income $ 1,999 $ 1,824 10 % % of related revenue 79 % 78 % Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 34 Table of Contents Revenue classified by significant service and product offerings was as follows: (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY25 Q1 FY24 % Change Net revenue: QuickBooks Online Accounting $ 965 $ 798 21 % Online Services 978 820 19 % Total Online Ecosystem 1,943 1,618 20 % QuickBooks Desktop Accounting 296 376 (21) % Desktop Services and Supplies 305 350 (13) % Total Desktop Ecosystem 601 726 (17) % Total Global Business Solutions $ 2,544 $ 2,344 9 % Revenue for our Global Business Solutions segment increased $200 million, or 9%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024. The increase was due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue, which contributed to $325 million of the increase for the three months ended October 31, 2024. Online Ecosystem Revenue Online Ecosystem revenue increased $325 million, or 20%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased $167 million, or 21%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 due to the interrelated factors of customer growth, higher effective prices, and a shift in mix to our higher-priced offerings. Online Services revenue increased $158 million, or 19%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2025, due to increases in revenue from our money offerings of $91 million, our payroll offerings of $53 million, and Mailchimp of $17 million. Revenue increases were due to the interrelated factors described below. Money revenue increased $91 million due to a $65 million increase in payments revenue from payments customer growth, higher effective payments prices, and an increase in total payment volume per customer, and a $26 million increase from QuickBooks Capital. Online payroll revenue increased due to customer growth, higher effective prices, and a shift in mix to higher end offerings. Mailchimp revenue increased due to higher effective prices and paid customer growth. Desktop Ecosystem Revenue Desktop Ecosystem revenue decreased $125 million, or 17%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024, reflecting changes we made to our QuickBooks desktop offerings in early fiscal 2024 to complete the transition to a recurring subscription model, including more frequent product updates. Global Business Solutions segment operating income increased $175 million, or 10%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024, due to the increase in revenue described above, and decreases in marketing expenses of $16 million and staffing expenses of $10 million. In August 2024, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions that support and benefit our overall platform and are managed at that level rather than at the segment level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2023, we reclassified $332 million from Global Business Solutions to other corporate expenses to conform to the current presentation. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents Consumer Consumer segment service revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online and TurboTax Live offerings, electronic tax filing services, and connected services. Consumer segment product and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY25 Q1 FY24 % Change Service revenue $ 172 $ 178 (3) % Product and other revenue 4 9 (56) % Total segment revenue $ 176 $ 187 (6) % % of total revenue 5 % 6 % Segment operating income $ 76 $ 132 (42) % % of related revenue 43 % 71 % Revenue for our Consumer segment decreased $11 million, or 6%, in the first three months of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer offerings, we typically generate minimal revenue from Consumer products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of returns for the previous tax year. Consumer segment operating income decreased $56 million, or 42%, in the first three months of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024. In our first fiscal quarter, our Consumer segment typically generates nominal operating income or operating losses because revenue is minimal while we continue to incur operating expenses for general and administrative functions. In the first quarter of fiscal 2025, expenses increased compared to the same period of fiscal 2024 due to an increase in marketing expenses of $46 million. In August 2024, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions that support and benefit our overall platform and are managed at that level rather than at the segment level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2023, we reclassified $65 million from Consumer to other corporate expenses to conform to the current presentation. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 36 Table of Contents Credit Karma Credit Karma segment revenue is primarily derived from cost-per-action transactions, which include the delivery of qualified links that result in completed actions such as credit card issuances and personal loan funding; cost-per-click and cost-per-lead transactions, which include user clicks on advertisements or advertisements that allow for the generation of leads, and primarily relate to mortgage and insurance businesses; and Credit Karma Money. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY25 Q1 FY24 % Change Service revenue $ 524 $ 405 29 % Product and other revenue N/A Total segment revenue $ 524 $ 405 29 % % of total revenue 16 % 14 % Segment operating income $ 180 $ 106 70 % % of related revenue 34 % 26 % Revenue for our Credit Karma segment increased $119 million, or 29%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the same period in fiscal 2024, due to increases in revenue from our personal loan vertical of $44 million, our auto insurance vertical of $36 million, and our credit card vertical of $31 million. Credit Karma segment operating income increased $74 million, or 70%, in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the same period of fiscal 2024, due to the increase in revenue described above, partially offset by increases in marketing expenses of $37 million. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 37 Table of Contents ProTax ProTax segment service revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing services, connected services, and bank products. ProTax segment product and other revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products, and related form updates. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY25 Q1 FY24 % Change Service revenue $ 25 $ 25 % Product and other revenue 14 17 (18) % Total segment revenue $ 39 $ 42 (7) % % of total revenue 1 % 1 % Segment operating income $ 20 $ 22 (9) % % of related revenue 51 % 52 % Revenue for our ProTax segment decreased $3 million, or 7%, in the first three months of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024. Due to the seasonal nature of our ProTax offerings, we typically generate minimal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of returns for the previous tax year. Segment operating income decreased $2 million, or 9%, in the first three months of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024. In our first fiscal quarter, our ProTax segment typically generates nominal operating income or operating losses because revenue is minimal while we continue to incur operating expenses for general and administrative functions. Expenses were relatively flat in the first three months of fiscal 2025 compared to the same period of fiscal 2024. In August 2024, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions that support and benefit our overall platform and are managed at that level rather than at the segment level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other corporate expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2023, we reclassified $8 million from ProTax to other corporate expenses to conform to the current presentation. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 38 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY25 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY24 % of Related Revenue Cost of service revenue $ 772 27 % $ 707 29 % Cost of product and other revenue 14 4 % 15 3 % Amortization of acquired technology 37 N/A 38 N/A Total cost of revenue $ 823 25 % $ 760 26 % Our cost of revenue has three components: (1) cost of service revenue, which includes the direct costs associated with our online and service offerings, such as staffing costs for ongoing production support, customer support, and tax and bookkeeping experts that support our TurboTax Live and QuickBooks Live offerings, costs for data processing and storage capabilities from cloud providers, and costs related to credit score providers; (2) cost of product and other revenue, which includes the direct costs of manufacturing and shipping or electronically downloading our desktop software and financial supplies products; and (3) amortization of acquired technology, which represents the cost of amortizing developed technologies that we have obtained through acquisitions, over their useful lives. Cost of service revenue as a percentage of service revenue was relatively consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024. Cost of product and other revenue as a percentage of product and other revenue was relatively consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared with the same period of fiscal 2024. Costs of product and other revenue are expensed as incurred, and we do not defer any of these costs when product and other revenue is deferred. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY25 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY24 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 962 29 % $ 769 26 % Research and development 704 22 % 680 23 % General and administrative 394 12 % 342 11 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 120 4 % 120 4 % Restructuring 9 % % Total operating expenses $ 2,189 67 % $ 1,911 64 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 compared to the same period of fiscal 2024. Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2025 increased $305 million, or 10%, while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $278 million, or 15%. The increase in total operating expenses was due to increases of $117 million for marketing, $67 million for staffing, and $46 million for outside services. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $60 million and $65 million for the first three months of fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively, consisted of interest on our senior unsecured notes and secured revolving credit facilities. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 39 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net (In millions) Q1 FY25 Q1 FY24 Interest income (1) $ 42 $ 34 Net gain (loss) on executive deferred compensation plan assets (2) 4 (14) Other (3) (44) 2 Total interest and other income, net $ 2 $ 22 (1) Interest income for the three months ended October 31, 2024 increased compared to the same periods of fiscal 2024 due to higher average investable balances. (2) In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. (3) During the three months ended October 31, 2024, we recorded a $42 million net loss on long-term investments. Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. We recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $28 million in our provision for income taxes for each of the three months ended October 31, 2024 and 2023. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 31, 2024 was approximately 8%. Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation, our effective tax rate was approximately 24%. The difference from the federal statutory rate of 21% was primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the tax benefit we received from the federal research and experimentation credit. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 31, 2023 was approximately 9%. Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation, our effective tax rate was approximately 24%.The difference from the federal statutory rate of 21% was primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the tax benefit we received from the federal research and experimentation credit. In 2021, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) announced Pillar Two Model Rules, which call for the taxation of large multinational corporations at a minimum rate of 15%. Many non-U.S. tax jurisdictions have either recently enacted legislation to adopt certain components of the Pillar Two Model Rules beginning in fiscal 2025 with the adoption of additional components in later years or announced their plans to enact legislation in future years. The currently enacted Pillar Two Model Rules are not expected to have a significant impact to our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor developments and evaluate impacts, if any, of these provisions on our results of operations and cash flows for future years. In the current global tax policy environment, the U.S. and other domestic and foreign governments continue to consider, and in some cases enact, changes in corporate tax laws. As changes occur, we account for finalized legislation in the period of enactment. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview At October 31, 2024, our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $3.4 billion, a decrease of $716 million from July 31, 2024 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, the issuance of senior unsecured notes, and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 40 Table of Contents The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2024 July 31, 2024 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 3,358 $ 4,074 $ (716) (18) % Long-term investments $ 90 $ 131 $ (41) (31) % Long-term debt $ 5,625 $ 5,539 $ 86 2 % Working capital $ 2,107 $ 2,187 $ (80) (4) % Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.2 : 1 1.3 : 1 We have historically generated significant cash from operations, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $3.4 billion at October 31, 2024. None of those funds were restricted and approximately 91% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program are available to us for general corporate purposes. At October 31, 2024, no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility or the commercial paper program. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Our secured revolving credit facilities are available to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. At October 31, 2024, $670 million was outstanding under our secured revolving credit facilities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and commercial paper program, and access to external financing will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, capital expenditure requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to quickly respond to these types of opportunities. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024. See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (In millions) October 31, 2024 October 31, 2023 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 362 $ (97) $ 459 Investing activities (188) 210 (398) Financing activities 761 849 (88) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents (17) 17 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents $ 935 $ 945 $ (10) Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 41 Table of Contents Our primary sources and uses of cash were as follows: Three Months Ended October 31, 2024 October 31, 2023 Sources of cash: Net change in funds receivable and funds payable and amounts due to customers Operations Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans Borrowings under our secured revolving credit facilities Uses of cash: Repurchases of shares of our common stock Payment of accrued bonuses and restructuring for fiscal 2024 Payment of cash dividends and dividend rights Payments for employee taxes withheld upon vesting of restricted stock units Net originations and purchases of loans held for investment Sources of cash: Proceeds from the issuance of senior unsecured notes Net change in funds receivable and funds payable and amounts due to customers Net sales and maturities of corporate and customer fund investments Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans Uses of cash: Repayment of debt Repurchases of shares of our common stock Payment of cash dividends and dividend rights Payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2023 Payments for employee taxes withheld upon vesting of restricted stock units Operations Capital expenditures Net originations and purchases of loans held for investment Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2025, we repurchased 915,000 shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. On August 20, 2024, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the authorization under the existing stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to an additional $3 billion of our common stock. At October 31, 2024, we had authorization from our Board of Directors for up to $4.3 billion in stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. We have continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. During the three months ended October 31, 2024, we declared quarterly cash dividends that totaled $1.04 per share of outstanding common stock for a total of $295 million. In November 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.04 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 17, 2025 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 9, 2025. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Commitments for Senior Unsecured Notes In June 2020, we issued $2 billion of senior unsecured notes, of which $1.5 billion is outstanding as of October 31, 2024, and is comprised of the following: $500 million of 0.950% notes due July 2025; $500 million of 1.350% notes due July 2027; and $500 million of 1.650% notes due July 2030 (together, the 2020 Notes). Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. At October 31, 2024, our maximum commitment for interest payments was $75 million for the remaining duration of the outstanding 2020 Notes. The 2020 Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Intuit and rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Intuit and are redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Upon the occurrence of change of control transactions that are accompanied by certain downgrades in the credit ratings of the 2020 Notes, we will be required to repurchase the 2020 Notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate outstanding principal plus any accrued and unpaid interest to but not including the date of repurchase. The indenture governing the 2020 Notes requires us to comply with certain covenants. For example, the 2020 Notes limit our ability to create certain liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. As of October 31, 2024, we were compliant with all covenants governing the 2020 Notes. See Note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 42 Table of Contents In September 2023, we issued $4 billion of senior unsecured notes comprised of the following: $750 million of 5.250% notes due September 2026; $750 million of 5.125% notes due September 2028; $1,250 million of 5.200% notes due September 2033; and $1,250 million of 5.500% notes due September 2053 (together, the 2023 Notes). Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. At October 31, 2024, our maximum commitment for interest payments was $2.8 billion for the remaining duration of the outstanding 2023 Notes. The 2023 Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Intuit and rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Intuit and are redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. The indenture governing the 2023 Notes requires us to comply with certain covenants. For example, the 2023 Notes limit our ability to create certain liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. As of October 31, 2024, we were compliant with all covenants governing the 2023 Notes. See Note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Credit Facilities Unsecured Revolving Credit Facilities On February 5, 2024, we terminated our amended and restated credit agreement dated November 1, 2021 (2021 Credit Facility), and entered into a credit agreement with certain lenders providing for a $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on February 5, 2029 (2024 Credit Facility). Under the 2024 Credit Facility, we may, subject to certain customary conditions, including approval of relevant lenders, on one or more occasions, increase commitments under the 2024 Credit Facility by an amount not to exceed $1 billion in the aggregate, and, on one or more occasions, extend the maturity date of the 2024 Credit Facility by one year. The 2024 Credit Facility includes a $500 million sublimit for borrowing swingline loans and a $250 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. Advances under the unsecured revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates equal to (a) in the case of U.S. dollar borrowings, at our election, either (i) the alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.125%, or (ii) the adjusted term Secured Overnight Finance Rate (SOFR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.7% to 1.125%, or (b) in the case of foreign currency borrowings, the interest benchmark for the relevant currency specified in the credit agreement plus a margin that ranges from 0.7% to 1.125%. Actual margins under either election are based on our senior debt credit ratings. The 2024 Credit Facility includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a ratio of total gross debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), as defined in the agreement, of not greater than 4.00 to 1.00 as measured on a rolling twelve month basis as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. As of October 31, 2024, we were compliant with all covenants governing the 2024 Credit Facility. At October 31, 2024, no amounts were outstanding under the 2024 Credit Facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. Secured Revolving Credit Facilities On February 19, 2019, a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a secured revolving credit facility with a lender to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses (the 2019 Secured Facility). The 2019 Secured Facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. We have entered into several amendments to this facility, most recently on September 5, 2024. These amendments primarily increase the facility limit, extend the commitment term and final maturity date, and update the benchmark interest rate. Under the amended 2019 Secured Facility, the facility limit is $500 million, of which $300 million is committed and $200 million is uncommitted. Advances accrue interest at adjusted daily simple SOFR plus 1.25%. Unused portions of the committed credit facility accrue interest at a rate ranging from 0.25% to 0.75%, depending on the total unused committed balance. The commitment term is through August 31, 2027, and the final maturity date is August 31, 2028. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. As of October 31, 2024, we were compliant with all covenants governing the 2019 Secured Facility. At October 31, 2024, $370 million was outstanding under the 2019 Secured Facility and the weighted-average interest rate was 6.25%, which includes the interest on the unused committed portion. The outstanding balance is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary totaling $1.3 billion. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 43 Table of Contents On October 12, 2022, another subsidiary of Intuit entered into a secured revolving credit facility with a lender to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses (the 2022 Secured Facility). The 2022 Secured Facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. We have entered into several amendments to this facility, most recently on April 30, 2024. These amendments primarily extend the commitment term and final maturity date and increase the commitment amount. Under the amended 2022 Secured Facility, the facility limit is $500 million, of which $300 million is committed and $200 million is uncommitted. Advances accrue interest at SOFR plus 1.3%. Unused portions of the committed credit facility accrue interest at a rate ranging from 0.2% to 0.4%, depending on the total unused committed balance. The commitment term is through April 30, 2026, and the final maturity date is April 30, 2027. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. As of October 31, 2024, we were compliant with all covenants governing the 2022 Secured Facility. At October 31, 2024, $300 million was outstanding under the 2022 Secured Facility and the weighted-average interest rate was 6.2%, which includes the interest on the unused committed portion. The outstanding balance is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary totaling $881 million. On November 1, 2024, a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a secured revolving credit facility with a lender to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses (the 2024 Secured Facility). The 2024 Secured Facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. Under the 2024 Secured Facility, the facility limit is $300 million, of which $150 million is committed and $150 million is uncommitted. Advances accrue interest at SOFR plus 1.15%. Unused portions of the committed credit facility accrue interest at a rate ranging from 0.2% to 0.4%, depending on the total unused committed balance. The commitment term is through November 1, 2027, and the final maturity date is November 1, 2028. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. Commercial Paper Program In June 2024, we established a $1.5 billion commercial paper program under which we may issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes (commercial paper). The maturities of the commercial paper may vary up to 397 days from the date of issuance. At each of the reporting periods ended October 31, 2024 and July 31, 2024, no amounts were outstanding under this program. Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $3.4 billion at October 31, 2024. Approximately 9% of those funds were held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in India, the United Kingdom, and Canada. We do not expect to pay incremental U.S. taxes on repatriation. We have recorded income tax expense for Canada, India, and Israel withholding taxes on earnings that are not permanently reinvested. In the event that funds from foreign operations are repatriated to the U.S., we would pay withholding taxes at that time. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2024 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations during the three months ended October 31, 2024. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2025 Form 10-Q 44 Table of Contents