ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide readers of our consolidated financial statements with the perspectives of management. This should allow the readers of this report to obtain a comprehensive understanding of our businesses, strategies, current trends, and future prospects. Our MD&A includes the following sections: Executive Overview: High level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations: A more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources: Discussion of key aspects of our consolidated statements of cash flows, changes in our consolidated balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part 1 for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 . We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition effective August 1, 2018. Beginning with the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 , our financial results reflect the adoption of the standards with the prior periods restated accordingly. See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. In fiscal 2018 we acquired TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. We have included their results of operations in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of acquisitions. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 26 Table of Contents About Intuit Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers. We organize our businesses into three reportable segments Small Business & Self-Employed, Consumer, and Strategic Partner. Small Business & Self-Employed : This segment targets small businesses and the self-employed around the world, and the accounting professionals who serve and advise them. Our offerings include QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, merchant payment processing solutions, and financing for small businesses. Consumer : This segment targets consumers and includes do-it-yourself and assisted TurboTax income tax preparation products and services sold in the U.S. and Canada. Our Mint and Turbo offerings target consumers and help them understand and improve their financial lives by offering a view of their financial health. Strategic Partner : This segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings include Lacerte, ProSeries, ProFile, and ProConnect Tax Online. Our Growth Strategy At Intuit, our strategy starts with a focus on our customers. We listen to our customers, understand their challenges, and then use technology to develop innovative solutions designed to solve their problems and help them prosper. For more than three decades, we have reinvented and disrupted ourselves to better serve our customers, as we continue to transform to a global platform and product company. Our assessment of external trends the emergence and influence of the digital generation, and the growth in the self-employed workforce reveals significant opportunities to drive future growth. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are manual in nature to more automated, interconnected services that work on platforms and increasingly rely on artificial intelligence and machine learning. Our strategy is built on the strength of our One Intuit Ecosystem, designed to unlock the power of many for the prosperity of each and every participant. Our evolving strategy focuses on three elements: Personalized experiences : With customer provided data and the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning, we can create increasingly valuable personalized and easy to use experiences that delight and serve our customers. For example, our TurboTax solutions use machine learning to create a customized interview, asking questions uniquely tailored to each individual situation. By delivering an amazing end-to-end experience, we offer customers the value they expect from our offerings as quickly and easily as possible. Trusted open platform : Our open platform allows our customers to use and share their financial data with us and third party partners to help improve their financial lives. One example of this is our QuickBooks open platform, where small businesses and accountants can install apps created by third-party developers to enhance the functionality and personalization of the QuickBooks experience. Indispensable connections : Within our One Intuit Ecosystem, we strive to build connections between customers, partners, and products on our platform. For example, our TurboTax Live offering connects our TurboTax customers with tax experts. Additionally, QuickBooks offers a match-making service that connects small businesses with accountants, helping small businesses succeed and accountants grow their practices. As part of our strategy, we also develop relationships with strategic partners that enable us to serve consumers, the self-employed and small businesses globally. Strategic partners include financial institutions, enterprise platforms, educational institutions and accountants, and our strategy allows us to co-create indispensable connections by sharing expertise, product integrations, and new solutions to solve more customer problems. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Industry Trends and Seasonality Industry Trends The rapid expansion of cloud-based services is creating a more dynamic and highly competitive software industry. High availability and speed of service are reshaping customer expectations around the world. These shifts are accelerating product introductions and enhancements. Among cloud-based service companies, free business models and micro-job solutions are also becoming more prevalent within the industry. Personalization and data-driven insights, augmented by artificial intelligence and machine learning, are transforming the way that people manage their financial lives. Seasonality Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. For our consumer and professional tax offerings, we have implemented additional security measures and are continuing to work with state and federal governments to share information regarding suspicious filings. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part 1 and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report. Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses. Online service offerings are a significant part of our business. Our total service and other revenue was $4.4 billion or 73% of our total revenue in fiscal 2018 and we expect our total service and other revenue to continue to grow in the future. Key highlights for the first three months of fiscal 2019 include the following: Revenue of Small Business & Self-Employed revenue of Cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $1.0 B $908 M $1.3 B up 12% from same period of fiscal 2018 up 11% from same period of fiscal 2018 Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 28 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Below, we have updated our revenue recognition critical accounting policy for the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Other than the changes to our revenue recognition critical accounting policy, we believe that there were no other significant changes in the critical accounting policies and estimates included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018, during the first three months of fiscal 2019 . Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware. Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process. These judgments and estimates include (1) identifying performance obligations in the contract; (2) determining whether the performance obligations are distinct; (3) determining the standalone sales price (SSP) for each distinct performance obligation; (4) determining the timing of revenue recognition for distinct performance obligations; and (5) estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price. If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue we report in a particular period. For additional information, see Revenue Recognition in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY19 Q1 FY18 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 1,016 $ 910 $ 106 12 % Operating loss (10 ) (35 ) 25 (71 )% Net income (loss) 34 (2 ) 36 NM Diluted net income (loss) per share $ 0.13 $ (0.01 ) $ 0.14 NM NM = Not Meaningful Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $106 million or 12% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018 . The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in our Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue due to growth in the Online Ecosystem. Revenue in our Consumer and Strategic Partner segments was seasonally light. See Segment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $10 million compared with an operating loss of $35 million in the same quarter of fiscal 2018 . The decrease was due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs and expenses for staffing and advertising and marketing programs. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. We recorded net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 of $34 million compared with a net loss of $2 million in the same quarter of fiscal 2018 . During the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $41 million and $25 million, respectively, in our provision for income taxes. The increase in excess tax benefits on share-based compensation was primarily due to an increase in stock option exercises during the period and resulted in net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to a net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Diluted net income per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.13 , compared to a diluted net loss per share of $0.01 in the same quarter of fiscal 2018. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See Executive Overview About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 9 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate and sell to customers primarily in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses, and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $402 million in the first three months of fiscal 2019 and $372 million in the first three months of fiscal 2018 . Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2019 period due to increased corporate product development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 9 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 30 Table of Contents Small Business & Self-Employed Small Business & Self-Employed segment includes both Online Ecosystem and Desktop Ecosystem revenue. Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll; merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use online offerings; and financing for small businesses. Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products (Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Point of Sale); QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use desktop offerings; and financial supplies. Segment product revenue is derived from revenue related to software license and version protection for our QuickBooks Desktop products and subscriptions, license and related updates for our desktop payroll products and financial supplies, which are all part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Segment service and other revenue is derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue; and Desktop Ecosystem revenue related to support and connected services for our QuickBooks Desktop and desktop payroll products and subscriptions and merchant payment processing services. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY19 Q1 FY18 % Change Product revenue $ 329 $ 354 (7 )% Service and other revenue 579 465 25 % Total segment revenue $ 908 $ 819 11 % % of total revenue 89 % 90 % Segment operating income $ 460 $ 424 8 % % of related revenue 51 % 52 % Revenue for our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased $89 million or 11% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue. Online Ecosystem Online Ecosystem revenue increased 42% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 . QuickBooks Online revenue increased 46% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to an increase in QuickBooks Online subscribers and average revenue per customer. At October 31, 2018 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 3.6 million, up 41% compared with the same point in time a year ago. Online Services revenue increased 36% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily due to customer growth in online payroll and payments and an increase in revenue from other online services. Desktop Ecosystem Desktop Ecosystem revenue decreased 4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in revenue related to the delivery of version protection for our QuickBooks Enterprise customers, which was partially offset by an increase in license revenue related to customer acquisition for our QuickBooks Enterprise offering. QuickBooks Desktop subscribers were up 8% as compared with the same point in time a year ago. Small Business & Self-Employed segment operating income increased 8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 . This increase was primarily due to the higher Online Ecosystem revenue described above partially offset by higher expenses for staffing and advertising and marketing programs. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Consumer Consumer segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates. Consumer segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online products, electronic tax filing services and connected services, and also from our Mint and Turbo offerings. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY19 Q1 FY18 % Change Product revenue $ 6 $ 5 20 % Service and other revenue 84 69 22 % Total segment revenue $ 90 $ 74 22 % % of total revenue 9 % 8 % Segment operating loss $ (41 ) $ (59 ) (31 )% % of related revenue (46 )% (80 )% Total Consumer segment revenue increased $16 million or 22% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 . Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from Consumer products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer revenue, we do not believe that first quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2018 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2019. In our first fiscal quarter, Consumer segment typically generates operating losses because Consumer revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development and general and administrative expenses continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Consumer segment operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 32 Table of Contents Strategic Partner Strategic Partner segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products and related form updates. Strategic Partner segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing service, connected services and, bank products. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY19 Q1 FY18 % Change Product revenue $ 12 $ 11 9 % Service and other revenue 6 6 % Total segment revenue $ 18 $ 17 6 % % of total revenue 2 % 2 % Segment operating loss $ (20 ) $ (25 ) (20 )% % of related revenue (111 )% (147 )% Total Strategic Partner segment revenue increased $1 million or 6% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 . Due to the seasonal nature of our Strategic Partner offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Because of the seasonality of our Strategic Partner revenue, we do not believe that first quarter revenue in this segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2018 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2019. In our first fiscal quarter, Strategic Partner segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while operating expenses for functions such as research and development and general and administrative expenses continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Strategic Partner segment operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2018 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY19 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY18 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 15 4 % $ 18 5 % Cost of service and other revenue 227 34 % 178 33 % Amortization of acquired technology 5 n/a 2 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 247 24 % $ 198 22 % Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue was consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 . We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018 . Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY19 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY18 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 346 34 % $ 308 34 % Research and development 294 29 % 293 32 % General and administrative 137 14 % 145 16 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 2 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 779 77 % $ 747 82 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period of fiscal 2018. Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $106 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $32 million or 4% . Total operating expenses increased about $14 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount and about $14 million for higher advertising and marketing programs. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $4 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan. Interest expense of $5 million for the first three months of fiscal 2018 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and unsecured revolving credit facility. Interest and Other Income, Net (In millions) Q1 FY19 Q1 FY18 Interest income $ 7 $ 2 Net gain (loss) on executive deferred compensation plan assets (1) (5 ) 2 Other (2 ) (1 ) Total interest and other income, net $ $ 3 (1) In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 34 Table of Contents Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 has been restated to reflect the full retrospective application of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). See Note 1 and Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report for more information. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017 and reduced the U.S. statutory federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% . The effective date of the tax rate change was January 1, 2018. The change resulted in a blended lower U.S. statutory federal rate of 26.9% for fiscal 2018. Our first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflects tax effects at the pre-enactment U.S. statutory federal rate of 35%. In fiscal 2019, we fully benefit from the enacted lower tax rate of 21% . We recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $41 million and $25 million in our provision for income taxes in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in excess tax benefits on share-based compensation was primarily due to an increase in stock option exercises during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. We recorded a $48 million tax benefit on a pretax loss of $14 million for the three months ended October 31, 2018 . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits, our effective tax rate for the period was 23% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 21% . Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was approximately 95%. Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits, our effective tax rate for the period was 33% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview At October 31, 2018 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $1.3 billion , a decrease of $384 million from July 31, 2018 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facility. In fiscal 2019 our U.S. statutory tax rate decreased to 21% as a result of the 2017 Tax Act, which increased our cash from operations. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2018 July 31, 2018 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 1,332 $ 1,716 $ (384 ) (22 )% Long-term investments 13 13 % Short-term debt 50 50 % Long-term debt 375 388 (13 ) (3 )% Working capital 646 679 (33 ) (5 )% Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.4 : 1 1.4 : 1 We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $1.3 billion at October 31, 2018 . None of those funds were restricted and approximately 82% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases. At October 31, 2018 , no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these types of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our consolidated statements of cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 . Effective August 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash . The amounts below have been restated to comply with this new standard. See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete consolidated statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2018 October 31, 2017 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (143 ) $ (78 ) $ (65 ) Investing activities 20 (128 ) 148 Financing activities (182 ) 158 (340 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents (4 ) (5 ) 1 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents $ (309 ) $ (53 ) $ (256 ) Our primary sources and uses of cash were as follows: Three Months Ended October 31, 2018 October 31, 2017 Sources of cash: Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans Uses of cash: Operations Payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2018 Repurchases of shares of our common stock Payment of cash dividends and dividend rights Capital expenditures Repayment of debt Sources of cash: Borrowings under revolving credit facility Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans Uses of cash: Operations Payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2017 Repurchases of shares of our common stock Payment of cash dividends and dividend rights Capital expenditures Repayment of debt Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2019 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At October 31, 2018 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $3.1 billion for stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. We have continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. During the three months ended October 31, 2018 we declared and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.47 per share of outstanding common stock for a total of $129 million . In November 2018 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.47 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 18, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2019 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 36 Table of Contents Credit Facility On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion. The master credit agreement includes a $500 million unsecured term loan and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021. Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At October 31, 2018 , no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. Under the master credit agreement, we borrowed $500 million in the form of an unsecured term loan on February 1, 2016. We may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $500 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments, which began in July 2017, of 2.5% of the original loan amount, with the balance payable on February 1, 2021. At October 31, 2018 , $425 million was outstanding under the term loan. The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2018 . Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $1.3 billion at October 31, 2018 . Approximately 18% of those funds were held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada and India. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act we do not expect to pay incremental U.S. taxes on repatriation. We have recorded income tax expense for Canada and India withholding and distribution taxes on earnings that are not permanently reinvested. In the event that funds from foreign operations are repatriated to the United States, we would pay withholding or distribution taxes at that time. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At October 31, 2018 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2018 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2019 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2019 Form 10-Q 37 Table of Contents