ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide readers of our consolidated financial statements with the perspectives of management. This should allow the readers of this report to obtain a comprehensive understanding of our businesses, strategies, current trends, and future prospects. Our MD&A includes the following sections: Executive Overview: High level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations: A more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources: Discussion of key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part 1 for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017 . EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. About Intuit Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers. We organize our businesses into three reportable segments Small Business & Self-Employed, Consumer, and Strategic Partner. Small Business & Self-Employed : This segment targets small businesses, the self-employed, and the accounting professionals who serve and advise them around the globe. Our offerings include QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, and payment processing solutions. Consumer : This segment targets consumers and includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services sold in the U.S. and Canada. Strategic Partner : This segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings include Lacerte, ProSeries, ProFile, and ProConnect Tax Online. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 21 Table of Contents Our Growth Strategy As emerging technology and market trends change the way people live and work, we change too. For more than three decades, we have continuously re-invented ourselves from a desktop business to the web and mobile. Our assessment of external trends the emergence and influence of the digital generation, the evolution of social networks as a means to accomplish important financial tasks and growth in the self-employed workforce reveals significant opportunities to drive future growth. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are manual in nature to more automated, interconnected services that work on platforms and increasingly rely on artificial intelligence and machine learning. Our strategy is built on the strength of our One Intuit Ecosystem, a connected, one-stop destination for customers to make their financial lives easier. Our evolving strategy focuses on three elements: Personalized experiences : With deep expertise and customer-provided data, we can create increasingly valuable personalized experiences that delight and serve our customers. For example, our TurboTax solutions use machine learning to create a customized interview, asking questions uniquely tailored to each individual situation. By delivering an amazing end-to-end experience, we offer customers the value they expect from our offerings as quickly and easily as possible. Trusted open platform : With a secure, open platform, we allow real-time access to and use of high-quality data to internal and external developers, speeding our ability to embrace new technology, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning. One example of this is our QuickBooks open platform, where small businesses and accountants can install apps created by third-party developers to enhance the functionality and personalization of the QuickBooks experience. Indispensable connections : Within our One Intuit Ecosystem we strive to build connections between customers, partners, and products on our platform. We also focus on building relationships with strategic partners critical to providing key customer benefits. These include accountants, developers, financial institutions, schools, governments, and other platform companies. Industry Trends and Seasonality Industry Trends The industry in which we operate is dynamic and highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so in the future. The markets for software and related services, especially highly-available connected services, are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. There are also large, cloud-based service companies who innovate quickly and serve small businesses and consumers. While today our competition with such companies may be limited, as we and those companies grow, our competition with them may increase. In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are paper-based, human-produced, and brick-and-mortar bound, to one where people understand, demand, and embrace the benefits of connected services. This trend toward connected services is the primary driver of the strategies in all of our businesses. Seasonality Our Consumer offerings have significant seasonal patterns. As a result, during each of the last three fiscal years the total revenue for our third quarter ended April 30 has represented nearly half of our total revenue for those years. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer business to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we continue transitioning to offer more connected services, the ongoing operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 22 Table of Contents information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Beginning in early calendar year 2015, state taxing authorities, the IRS, and the tax preparation industry experienced an increase in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds at the federal level and expanding into the state level. We implemented additional security measures in our products and began working with state governments to share information regarding suspicious filings while continuing to share such information with the federal government. We continue to invest in security and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part 1 and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report. Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole, for each reportable segment, and for product lines within each reportable segment; operating income growth and operating income margins for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses and transaction volume for our payment processing business. Total credit and debit card transaction volume correlates strongly with the macroeconomic environment and is one of the key drivers of revenue growth in our payment processing business. Customers for our connected services offerings have generally grown faster than those for our traditional desktop software offerings, reflecting our strategic focus on connected services over the past few years. Connected services (total service and other revenue) generated $3.8 billion or 73% of our total revenue in fiscal 2017 . We expect connected services revenue as a percentage of our total revenue to continue to grow in the future. Key highlights for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 include the following: Revenue of Small Business & Self-Employed revenue of Operating loss of $886 M $694 M $57 M up 14% from same period of fiscal 2017 up 17% from same period of fiscal 2017 down 7% from same period of fiscal 2017 Net loss of Basic and diluted net loss per share of Cash, cash equivalents and investments of $17 M $0.07 $777 M down 43% from same period of fiscal 2017 down 42% from same period of fiscal 2017 Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 23 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. We believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2018 . Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY18 Q1 FY17 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 886 $ 778 $ 108 14 % Operating loss (57 ) (61 ) 4 (7 )% Net loss (17 ) (30 ) 13 (43 )% Basic and diluted net loss per share $ (0.07 ) $ (0.12 ) $ 0.05 (42 )% Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased $108 million or 14% compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 . The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in our Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue due to growth in the Online Ecosystem. Revenue in our Consumer segment was seasonally light. See S egment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating loss decreased 7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to the increase in revenue partially offset by higher costs and expenses, including higher spending for staffing, outside services, advertising and other marketing programs, and share-based compensation. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net loss decreased 43% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to the decrease in operating loss and a higher effective tax rate in the fiscal 2018 period. The higher effective tax rate was due to increased tax benefits on share-based compensation. See Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes later in this Item 2 for more information. Basic and diluted net loss per share decreased 42% to $0.07 , consistent with the decrease in net loss. Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See Executive Overview About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 9 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate primarily in the United States and sell primarily to customers in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses, and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $372 million in the first three months of fiscal 2018 and $328 million in the first three months of fiscal 2017 . Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2018 period due to increased corporate product development and selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 9 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary slightly from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented below. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 24 Table of Contents Small Business & Self-Employed Product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Desktop software products, including Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and Enterprise; QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll; QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions; ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses; and financial supplies. Service and other revenue is derived primarily from our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise with Hosting, our subscription offerings; QuickBooks Enterprise term licenses and QuickBooks technical support plans; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, and Intuit Full Service Payroll; and payment processing services for small businesses. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY18 Q1 FY17 % Change Product revenue $ 208 $ 188 11 % Service and other revenue 486 405 20 % Total segment revenue $ 694 $ 593 17 % % of total revenue 78 % 76 % Segment operating income $ 301 $ 239 26 % % of related revenue 43 % 40 % Total Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue increased $101 million or 17% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue. Online Ecosystem Online Ecosystem revenue of $258 million increased 35% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to customer acquisition. At October 31, 2017 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 2.55 million , up 56% compared with the same point in time a year ago. Online Services revenue increased 15% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to customer growth in online payroll and payments. Desktop Ecosystem Desktop Ecosystem revenue of $436 million increased 8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to growth in QuickBooks Enterprise. QuickBooks Desktop units declined 35%. Small Business & Self-Employed segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 . This increase was due to the higher revenue described above partially offset by higher expenses for staffing and advertising and other marketing programs. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 25 Table of Contents Consumer Product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software. Service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY18 Q1 FY17 % Change Product revenue $ 11 $ 11 (2 )% Service and other revenue 67 62 9 % Total segment revenue $ 78 $ 73 7 % % of total revenue 9 % 10 % Segment operating loss $ (55 ) $ (38 ) 44 % % of related revenue (70 )% (52 )% Total Consumer segment revenue increased 7% to $78 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2017. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from Consumer products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer revenue, we do not believe that first fiscal quarter revenue in our Consumer segment is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2017 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2018. In our first fiscal quarter, Consumer segment typically generates operating losses because Consumer revenue is nominal while segment operating expenses for functions such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We do not believe that Consumer segment operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2017 are indicative of trends for the full fiscal year. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 26 Table of Contents Strategic Partner Product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products. Service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax return preparation, bank products, and related services that complement the tax return preparation process. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY18 Q1 FY17 % Change Product revenue $ 100 $ 98 2 % Service and other revenue 14 14 1 % Total segment revenue $ 114 $ 112 2 % % of total revenue 13 % 14 % Segment operating income $ 72 $ 70 3 % % of related revenue 63 % 62 % The Strategic Partner segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Total Strategic Partner segment revenue increased slightly in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017. Strategic Partner segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased slightly in the first three months of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to the increase in revenue and relatively stable spending. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY18 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY17 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 24 8 % $ 29 10 % Cost of service and other revenue 170 30 % 151 31 % Amortization of acquired technology 2 n/a 3 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 196 22 % $ 183 24 % Cost of product revenue as a percentage of related revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to the decrease in cost of product revenue and an increase in the related revenue. Cost of product revenue decreased primarily due to the decline in QuickBooks Desktop units, as well as lower costs to provide support for the desktop products. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY18 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY17 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 308 35 % $ 283 36 % Research and development 293 33 % 246 32 % General and administrative 145 16 % 126 16 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 1 % 1 % Total operating expenses $ 747 84 % $ 656 84 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue was flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same quarter of fiscal 2017 . Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased $108 million or 14% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $91 million or 14% . Operating expenses increased about $43 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, $19 million for outside services, $7 million for advertising and other marketing programs, and $7 million for share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation expenses have been increasing over time because the total fair value of our share-based awards has generally been increasing. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $5 million for the first three months of fiscal 2018 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and unsecured revolving credit facility. Interest expense of $9 million for the first three months of fiscal 2017 consisted primarily of interest on our senior notes and unsecured term loan. In the third quarter of fiscal 2017 we repaid the senior notes when they became due. See Note 4 and Note 5 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net (In millions) Q1 FY18 Q1 FY17 Interest income (1) $ 2 $ 1 Net gain (loss) on executive deferred compensation plan assets (2) 2 (1 ) Other (1 ) (2 ) Total interest and other income (expense), net $ 3 $ (2 ) (1) Interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared with the same period of fiscal 2017 due to higher average interest rates partially offset by lower average invested balances. (2) In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 28 Table of Contents Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017 we adopted ASU 2016-09. As a result, we recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $25 million and $19 million in our provision for income taxes for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 respectively. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was approximately 72% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits resulting from the adoption of ASU 2016-09, our effective tax rate for the period was 33% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35% . See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was approximately 58% . Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits resulting from the adoption of ASU 2016-09, our effective tax rate for the period was 34% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview At October 31, 2017 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $777 million , which was flat compared to July 31, 2017 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2017 July 31, 2017 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 777 $ 777 $ % Long-term investments 31 31 % Short-term debt 450 50 400 800 % Long-term debt 425 438 (13 ) (3 )% Working capital (deficit) (702 ) (529 ) (173 ) 33 % Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 0.7 : 1 0.7 : 1 We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so during the balance of fiscal 2018 . Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $777 million at October 31, 2017 , none of those funds were restricted, and approximately 71% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we borrowed $400 million under the revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes and share repurchases, as our cash balance in the first fiscal quarter is seasonally low. At October 31, 2017 , $400 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to respond nimbly to these types of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 . See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2017 October 31, 2016 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (78 ) $ (205 ) $ 127 Investing activities (75 ) 98 (173 ) Financing activities 158 (166 ) 324 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (5 ) (5 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ $ (278 ) $ 278 Our primary sources and uses of cash were as follows: Three Months Ended October 31, 2017 October 31, 2016 Sources of cash: Borrowings under revolving credit facility Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans Uses of cash: Operations Payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2017 Repurchases of shares of our common stock Payments of cash dividends Capital expenditures Repayment of debt Sources of cash: Net sales of investments Borrowings under revolving credit facility Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans Uses of cash: Operations Payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2016 Repurchases of shares of our common stock Payment of cash dividends Capital expenditures Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2018 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At October 31, 2017 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.4 billion for stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. During the first three months of fiscal 2018 we also continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. In November 2017 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.39 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 18, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 10, 2018 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Credit Facility On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion. The master credit agreement includes a $500 million unsecured term loan and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 1, 2021. Under the master credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At October 31, 2017 , $400 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 30 Table of Contents lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. Under the master credit agreement, we borrowed $500 million in the form of an unsecured term loan on February 1, 2016. We may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $500 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments, which began in July 2017, of 2.5% of the original loan amount, with the balance payable on February 1, 2021. At October 31, 2017 , $475 million was outstanding under the term loan. The master credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended October 31, 2017 . Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $777 million at October 31, 2017 . Of this amount, approximately 29% was held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada and India. We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At October 31, 2017 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2017 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. On September 13, 2017 we signed an agreement that includes a minimum purchase commitment of $450 million through August 31, 2022. There were no other significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2018 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2018 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents