Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and Note 13 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Small Business & Self-Employed Our Small Business & Self-Employed segment serves small businesses and the self-employed around the world, and the accounting professionals who serve and advise them. Our offerings include QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll and payment processing solutions, financial supplies, and financing for small businesses. QuickBooks Online Services and Desktop Software . Our QuickBooks financial management solutions help small businesses, the self-employed, and accountants solve financial and compliance problems, make more money and reduce unnecessary work, while giving them complete confidence in their actions and decisions. Users can track income and expenses, create and send invoices and estimates, manage and pay bills, and review a variety of financial reports. In fiscal 2019 we introduced QuickBooks Live which enables our customers to obtain live bookkeeping advice from professionals. Our QuickBooks offerings are available either online or as desktop versions. Our online offerings can be accessed on mobile devices. QuickBooks is built on an open platform, allowing third-party developers to create online and mobile applications that integrate with our offering. A growing number of companies offer applications built for our QuickBooks platform, including PayPal, Shopify, Square, and Bill.com. In addition to our core QuickBooks offering, we also offer specific solutions for the following customer segments: Enterprise . Our QuickBooks Enterprise and QuickBooks Online Advanced offerings are designed for small businesses with 10 to 100 employees that have more complex needs. QuickBooks Enterprise is available for download or on a disk and can also be provided as a hosted solution. This offering provides industry-specific reports and features for a range of industries, including Contractor, Manufacturing and Wholesale, Nonprofit, and Retail. QuickBooks Online Advanced is an online enterprise solution. Self-Employed . QuickBooks Self-Employed is designed specifically for self-employed customers whose needs are different than small businesses that use QuickBooks. Features include categorizing business and personal transactions, identifying and classifying tax deductible expenses, tracking mileage, calculating estimated quarterly taxes and sending invoices. QuickBooks Self-Employed can be combined with TurboTax to export and pay year-end taxes. QuickBooks Self-Employed is available both online and via a mobile application. Accountants . QuickBooks Online Accountant and QuickBooks Accountant Desktop Plus are available to accounting professionals who use QuickBooks offerings and recommend them to their small business clients. These offerings provide the tools and file-sharing capabilities that accounting professionals need to efficiently complete bookkeeping and financial reporting tasks and to manage their practices. We also offer memberships to the QuickBooks ProAdvisor program, which provides access to QuickBooks Online Accountant, QuickBooks Accountant Desktop Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Enterprise Accountant, QuickBooks Point of Sale Desktop, technical support, training, product certification, marketing tools, and discounts on Intuit products and services purchased on behalf of clients. Payroll Solutions . We offer two levels of payroll solutions that are sold on a subscription basis and seamlessly integrate with our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Desktop offerings. Our self-service payroll offerings include tools that allow our customers to perform payroll processing, direct deposit of employee paychecks, payroll reports, electronic payment of federal and state payroll taxes, and electronic filing of federal and state payroll tax forms. We also have our full-service payroll offerings, which provide comprehensive payroll services to QuickBooks customers who prefer not to perform payroll tasks themselves. Payment Processing Solutions . Our full range of merchant services for small businesses includes credit card, debit card, and ACH payment services. In addition to transaction processing services, our broad support for our clients includes customer service, merchant and consumer collections, chargeback and retrieval support, and fraud and loss prevention screening. We also offer e-invoicing, which allows small businesses to email invoices directly from QuickBooks with a link that enables customers to instantly pay online or from their mobile device. Financial Supplies . We offer a range of financial supplies designed for individuals and small businesses that use our QuickBooks offerings. These include standard paper checks and Secure Plus checks with CheckLock fraud protection features, a variety of stationery, tax forms and related supplies. Financing for Small Businesses . We offer financing options for small businesses to help them get the capital they need to succeed. The financing process provides small businesses the ability to use their QuickBooks data to qualify to borrow capital. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 6 Tables of Contents Consumer Our TurboTax products and services are designed to enable customers to prepare and file their own federal and state income tax returns quickly and accurately. They are designed to be easy to use, yet sophisticated enough for complex tax returns. These offerings are available either online or as desktop versions. Our online offerings can be accessed on mobile devices. Tax Return Preparation Offerings . For the 2018 tax season, we offered a variety of commercial software products and filing services to meet the different needs of our customers, including those filing simple returns, those who itemize deductions, own investments or rental property, and small business owners. Customers can electronically file their federal and state income tax returns through our electronic filing service. We also offered TurboTax Live for customers seeking to obtain tax advice from professionals, as well as audit defense and audit support services. Our online tax preparation and filing services were offered through the websites of thousands of financial institutions, electronic retailers, and other online merchants. Financial institutions can offer our online tax preparation and filing services to their customers through a link to TurboTax Online. Our TurboTax U.S. and Canada offerings consist of desktop, online, and mobile offerings. In addition to our commercial product offerings, we are a member of the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private sector companies that has entered into an agreement with the federal government to provide free online federal tax preparation and filing services to eligible taxpayers, which the IRS then markets to consumers on an IRS website. See also Competition Consumer Segment later in this Item 1 for more information on the Free File Alliance. Personal Finance Offerings. Our consumer platform, including our Mint and Turbo offerings, is aimed at helping customers unlock smart money decisions by connecting them to financial products to help make ends meet. These offerings help customers understand and improve their financial lives by offering a view of their financial health, as well as access to credit scores and monitoring. Strategic Partner Our Strategic Partner segment includes our professional tax offerings and serves professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings consist of Lacerte, ProSeries, ProFile and ProConnect Tax Online and enable accountants to accurately and efficiently complete and electronically file a full range of consumer, small business, and commercial federal and state tax returns. Lacerte is designed for full-service year-round accounting firms who handle more complex returns. ProSeries is designed for year-round tax practices handling moderately complex tax returns. ProConnect Tax Online is our cloud-based solution, which is designed for full-service year-round practices who prepare all forms of consumer and small business returns and integrates with our QuickBooks Online offerings. ProFile is our Canadian tax offering, which serves year-round full-service accounting firms for both consumer and business tax returns. We also offer a variety of tax-related services that complement the tax return preparation process including year-round document storage, collaboration services, e-signature, and bank products. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The markets for software and related services are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Continuous investment is required to innovate and develop new products and services as well as enhance existing offerings to be successful in these markets. Our product development efforts are more important than ever as we pursue our growth strategy. We develop many of our products and services internally, and we have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. We also supplement our internal development efforts by acquiring or licensing products and technology from third parties, and establishing other relationships that enable us to enhance or expand our offerings more rapidly. We expect to expand our third-party technology relationships as we continue to pursue our growth strategy. While our traditional desktop software products QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, and ProSeries tend to have predictable annual development and product release cycles, as we move to more online offerings and mobile applications, the development cycles are becoming more rapid. In addition, developing consumer and professional tax software and services presents unique challenges because of the demanding development cycle required to accurately incorporate federal and state tax law and tax form changes within a rigid timetable. The development timing for our small business payroll and merchant payment processing services offerings varies with business needs and regulatory requirements, and the length of the development cycle depends on the scope and complexity of each project. We continue to make substantial investments in research and development, and we expect to focus our future research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and services with financial recommendations, personalization, and ease of use enabled by A.I. and other advanced technologies. We continue to focus on developing new products and services, including new mobile and global offerings, and significant research and development efforts for ongoing projects to update the technology platforms for several of our offerings. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 7 Tables of Contents SEASONALITY Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and Strategic Partner businesses to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. MARKETING, SALES AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS Markets Our primary customers are consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed. We also provide specialized tax and accounting products to professional accountants, who are key partners to help us reach small business customers. The markets in which we compete have always been characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements by competitors. Over the past several years, the widespread usage of mobile devices and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that customers learn about, evaluate, and purchase products and services. Real-time, personalized online and mobile shopping experiences are the standard. In addition, many customers now begin shopping in one channel and ultimately purchase in another. This has created a need for integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy experiences. Market and industry changes quickly make existing products and services obsolete. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to these changes with new business models, updated competitive strategies, new or enhanced products and services, alternative distribution methods, and other changes in the way we do business. Marketing Programs We use a variety of marketing programs to generate direct sales, develop leads, increase general awareness of our product portfolio, and drive sales in retail. These programs include digital marketing such as display and pay-per-click advertising, search engine optimization, and social and affiliate marketing; mobile marketing through online app stores; email marketing; offline marketing such as TV, radio, billboard, magazine and newspaper advertising; retail marketing; public relations; and in product marketing to drive awareness of related products and services. Our campaigns are designed to attract new users, retain existing users, and cross sell additional offerings. Sales and Distribution Channels Multi-Channel Shop-and-Buy Experiences . Our customers use the web and mobile devices to research products and services. Some customers buy and use our products and services entirely online or through their mobile devices. Others research online but make their purchase at a retail location. Because many customers shop across multiple channels, we continue to coordinate our online, offline, and retail presence and promotions to support an integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy model. We also focus on cross-selling complementary Intuit and third-party offerings online and in-product. Direct Sales Channel . We sell many of our products and services directly through our websites and call centers. Direct, online sales are an effective channel for customers who can make purchase decisions based on content provided on our websites, via other online content or word of mouth recommendations. Telesales continues to be an effective channel for serving customers that want live help to select the products and services that are right for their needs. We also have a direct sales force that calls on U.S. and international accounting firms and seeks to increase their awareness, usage, and recommendation of our small business and professional tax solutions. Mobile Application Stores . We distribute many of our offerings for mobile devices through proprietary online stores that provide applications for specific devices. These include the Apple App Store and Googles Play Store. Retail and Other Channels . We sell our QuickBooks and TurboTax desktop software as well as payroll services at retail locations across the United States and on retailer websites. In Canada, we also rely on distributors and other third parties who sell products into the retail channel. We sell our products and services through selected alliance partners and accountants who help us reach new customers at the point of need and drive growth and market share by extending our online reach. These partners combine our products and services with value-added marketing, sales, and technical expertise to deliver a complete solution at the local level. As we expand our mobile and global offerings, we expect that strategic partnerships will become increasingly important to our business. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 8 Tables of Contents COMPETITION Overview We face intense competition in all of our businesses, both domestically and internationally. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. Some of our existing competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, the competitive landscape can shift rapidly as new companies enter and existing companies expand their businesses to include the markets in which we compete. This is particularly true for online and mobile products and services, where the barriers to entry are lower than they are for desktop software products and services. To attract customers, many online and mobile competitors are offering free or low-priced products which we must take into account in our pricing strategies. Given the breadth of the products and services that we offer as a global technology company, we compete with the offerings from a variety of companies across a range of industries. Our most obvious competition comes from other companies that currently offer technology solutions similar to ours. In our Small Business & Self-Employed segment, we face competition from a variety of companies that provide products or services to address the problems that we help our customers to solve, including getting paid faster, paying their employees, accessing capital and ensuring their books are done right. Our Consumer segment competes with companies that offer products and services to help customers file their taxes, better manage their money and reduce their debt. We may also face competition from companies with platforms that could be developed to offer competing technology solutions to any of the problems that our customers may face, such as Facebook, Amazon and Google. In addition, for many of our products and services, other competitive alternatives for customers are third-party service providers such as professional accountants and seasonal tax preparation businesses. Manual tools and processes, or general-purpose software, are also important competitive alternatives. In some cases, a competitor in one of our segments may be our partner in another one of our segments. In other cases, a company may compete with us in more than one of our segments. Competition Specific to Segments Small Business & Self-Employed Segment . QuickBooks is the leading small business financial management software in the U.S. Small businesses often look to several companies to address their problems. Therefore, our small business products and services face competitive challenges from a variety of companies that provide products or services that address one or more of their problems. We compete to help small businesses get their books right with The Sage Group plc, Xero and FreshBooks, among others, which offer software and associated services as well as online accounting offerings that directly serve small business customers. For small businesses with more complex financial management needs, our competitors include The Sage Group plcs Intacct offering and Microsoft Dynamics. We also compete with free or low-cost online accounting offerings, and free online banking and bill payment services offered by financial institutions and others. In our payroll business we compete directly with Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (ADP), Paychex, Gusto, and many other companies that help small businesses to pay their employees. In our merchant services business we help our customers get paid faster and compete directly with large financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, JP Morgan Chase, and Bank of America and with many payment processors, including First Data Corporation, Elavon, Global Payments, Fidelity National Information Services, PayPal, and Square. Our QuickBooks Capital offering, which helps small businesses to access capital, competes with a range of lending enterprises, including large financial institutions, such as the ones listed above, fintech companies, such as BlueVine and Kabbage, and others. Consumer Segment . In our Consumer segment, we compete to help our customers to file their taxes. Our future growth depends on our ability to attract new customers to the self-preparation tax category and to our assisted offering, TurboTax Live, from tax stores and other tax preparers. In the U.S. private sector we face intense competition from H&R Block, which provides tax preparation services in its stores and a competing software offering. We also face competition from several other large tax preparation service providers, from a myriad of small tax preparers, and from numerous online self-preparation offerings, including Free Tax USA, TaxSlayer, Blucoras TaxAct and Credit Karma. Some of these competitors are offering electronic tax preparation and filing services at no cost to individual taxpayers. In Canada, our TurboTax Canada offerings face competition from H&R Block, SimpleTax, StudioTax, and UFile, among others. These competing offerings subject us to significant price pressure in both the U.S. and Canada. We also face competitive challenges from government entities that offer publicly funded electronic tax preparation and filing services with no fees to individual taxpayers. We are a member of the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private sector companies that has entered into an agreement with the federal government. Under this agreement, the member companies provide online federal tax preparation and filing services to eligible users at no cost to the government or individual users separate and apart from the member companies commercial free offerings, which the IRS then markets to consumers on an IRS website. Approximately 22 states and the District of Columbia have also adopted Free File Alliance public-private agreements while approximately 19 other states offer some form of direct government tax preparation and filing services with no fees to qualified taxpayers. We continue to actively work with others in the private and public sectors to advance the goals of the Free File Alliance policy initiative and to support successful public-private partnerships that reinforce the voluntary compliance tax system. However, future administrative, regulatory, or legislative activity in this area could seek to replace the voluntary compliance tax system with return preparation by government agencies which could harm our Consumer business. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 9 Tables of Contents We also compete with numerous personal financial management companies, such as Credit Karma, Nerdwallet and Credit Sesame, and large financial institutions to help our customers better manage their money and reduce their debt. Strategic Partner Segment . In the U.S., Lacerte professional tax offerings face competition from competitively-priced tax and accounting solutions that include integration with non-tax functionality. These include CCHs ProSystems fx Office Suite and Thomson Reuters CS Professional Suite and GoSystems Tax. Our ProSeries professional tax offerings face competition from CCHs ATX and TaxWise offerings, Drake, and other smaller providers. In Canada, our ProFile professional tax offerings face competition from CCHs Cantax and Taxprep offerings, TaxCycle, and Thomson Reuters DTMax and UFile Pro offerings. We also face growing competition from online tax and accounting offerings in the U.S. and Canada, which may be marketed more effectively or have lower pricing than our offerings for accounting professionals. Competitive Factors We believe the most important competitive factors for our core offerings QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, and ProSeries are ease of use, product features, size of the installed customer base, brand name recognition, value proposition, cost, reliability, security, and product and support quality. Access to distribution channels is also important for our QuickBooks and TurboTax desktop software products. In addition, support from accounting professionals and the ability for customers to upgrade within product families as their businesses grow are significant competitive factors for our QuickBooks products. Productivity is an important competitive factor for the full-service accounting firms to which we market our Lacerte software products. We believe we compete effectively on these factors as our QuickBooks and TurboTax products are the leading products in the U.S. for their respective categories. For our service offerings such as small business payroll and merchant payment processing, we believe the most important competitive factors are functionality, ease of use, high availability, security, the integration of these products with related software, brand name recognition, effective distribution, quality of support, and cost. CUSTOMER SERVICE AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT We provide customer service and technical support by telephone, e-mail, online and video chat, text messaging, online communities, and our customer service and technical support websites. We have full-time and outsourced customer service and technical support staffs. We supplement these staffs with seasonal employees and additional outsourcing during periods of peak call volumes, such as during the tax return filing season or following a major product launch. We outsource to several firms domestically and internationally. Most of our internationally outsourced small business customer service and technical support personnel are currently located in India and the Philippines. We offer free self-help information through our technical support websites for our QuickBooks, TurboTax and professional tax offerings. Customers can also use our websites to find answers to commonly asked questions and check on the status of orders. Under certain paid support plans, customers can also use our websites to receive product updates electronically. Support alternatives and fees vary by product. We also sponsor online user communities where consumers can share knowledge and product advice with each other. MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION Online Products and Services Our online offerings include QuickBooks Online, online payroll services, merchant payment processing services, TurboTax Online, ProConnect Tax Online, consumer and professional electronic tax filing services, Mint, and Turbo. We continue to execute on a multi-year plan to transition the systems, networks and databases required to operate these online offerings to public cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS). Currently, most of our core online offerings are using AWS. The remaining online offerings are housed in data centers located in geographically diverse locations. Desktop Software and Supplies Although an increasing proportion of our desktop software customers choose to electronically download software, many customers continue to choose to purchase these products in the form of physical media. The key processes in manufacturing desktop software are manufacturing compact discs (CDs) and digital video discs (DVDs), printing boxes and related materials, and assembling and shipping the final products. For retail manufacturing and distribution, we have agreements with Arvato Digital Services, Inc. (Arvato), a division of Bertelsmann AG, under which Arvato provides a majority of the manufacturing volume for our launches of QuickBooks and TurboTax and day-to-day replenishment after product launches, as well as our retail distribution logistics. Arvato also provides most of the manufacturing volume and distribution services for our direct desktop software orders. Arvato has operations in multiple locations that can provide redundancy if necessary. Our model for product delivery for retail launches and replenishment is a hybrid of direct to store deliveries and shipments to central warehouse locations. This allows improved inventory management by our retailers. We also ship products for many of our smaller retail customers through distributors. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 10 Tables of Contents Customers typically receive desktop software electronically. However, when physical product is ordered, we typically ship the physical product within a few days of receiving an order and backlog is minimal. PRIVACY AND SECURITY OF CUSTOMER AND WORKFORCE INFORMATION AND TRANSACTIONS We are stewards of our customers data and have designed data stewardship principles to align our organization in collecting, using and protecting such information. As we believe strongly in being good stewards of our customers data, we operate our program to comply with laws and regulations that regulate our use and protection of customers personal information, including, for example, laws with respect to financial services and the handling of tax data. We have established guidelines and practices to help ensure that customers and members of our workforce are aware of, and can control, how we use information about them. We also use privacy statements to provide notice to customers of our privacy practices, as well as provide them the opportunity to furnish instructions with respect to use of their personal information. We participate in industry groups whose purpose is to develop or shape industry best practices, and to inform public policy for privacy and security. We use security safeguards to help protect the systems and the information that customers and members of our workforce give to us from loss, misuse and unauthorized alteration. We use technical, logical and procedural measures, such as multi-factor authentication, which are designed to help detect and prevent fraud and misuse of customer information. Whenever customers transmit sensitive information to us, such as credit card information or tax return data, through one of our websites or products, we follow current industry standards to encrypt the data as it is transmitted to us, and when we store it at rest. We routinely patch our systems with security updates and we work to protect our systems from unauthorized internal or external access using numerous commercially available computer security products as well as internally developed security procedures and practices. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our Consumer and Strategic Partner segments are subject to federal, state and international government requirements, including regulations related to the electronic filing of tax returns, the provision of tax preparer assistance, and the use and disclosure of customer information. In addition, our Small Business & Self-Employed segment offers products and services to small businesses and consumers, such as payroll, payments, and financing, which are also subject to certain regulatory requirements. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success depends on the proprietary technology embodied in our offerings. We protect this proprietary technology by relying on a variety of intellectual property mechanisms, including copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark laws, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. For example, we regularly file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks and service marks in order to protect intellectual property that we believe is important to our business. We hold a growing patent portfolio that we believe is important to Intuits overall competitive advantage, although we are not materially dependent on any one patent or particular group of patents in our portfolio at this time. We also have a number of registered trademarks that include Intuit, QuickBooks, Lacerte, TurboTax, QB, ProSeries, ProConnect, and Mint. We have registered these and other trademarks and service marks in the United States and, depending on the relevance of each brand to other markets, in many foreign countries. Most registrations can be renewed perpetually at 10-year intervals. We also license intellectual property from third parties for use in our products. Although our portfolio of patents is growing, the patents that have been issued to us could be determined to be invalid and may not be enforceable against competitive products in every jurisdiction. In addition, third parties have asserted and may, in the future, assert infringement claims against us and our customers. These claims and any litigation may result in invalidation of our proprietary rights or a finding of infringement along with an assessment of damages. Litigation, even if without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. EMPLOYEES As of July 31, 2019 , we had approximately 9,400 employees in offices in the United States, Canada, India, the United Kingdom, Israel, Australia and other locations. We also employed on average approximately 2,000 seasonal and contract employees during the second and third quarters of our fiscal years to support our Consumer segment customers. We refer to our full-time, part-time, seasonal and contract employees collectively as our workforce. We believe our future success and growth will depend on our ability to attract and retain a qualified workforce in all areas of our business. We do not currently have any collective bargaining agreements with our employees, and we believe workforce relations are generally good. Although we have employment-related agreements with a number of key employees, these agreements do not guarantee continued service. We believe we offer competitive compensation and a good working environment. We were named one of Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 11 Tables of Contents Fortune magazines 100 Best Companies to Work For in each of the last eighteen years. However, we face intense competition for qualified workers, and we expect to face continuing challenges in recruiting and retention. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 12 Tables of Contents ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, many of which could cause our future results to be materially different than we presently anticipate. Below, we describe certain important risks, categorized solely for ease of reference as strategic, operational, legal and compliance, and financial risks. The manner in which we respond to future developments as well as our competitors reactions to those developments may affect our future operating results. STRATEGIC RISKS Strategic risks relate to our current and future operating model, business plans and growth strategy, including the risks associated with the following: competitive pressures on our product offerings and business models; our ability to adapt to technological changes and global trends; our reliance on third-party intellectual property and our ability to protect our own intellectual property rights; the value of our brand; and mergers, acquisitions and divestiture activity that may have unanticipated costs and expenses. We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results. We face intense competition in all of our businesses, and we expect competition to remain intense in the future. Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups. Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services. In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers. We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses. In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models. In addition, other providers of free offerings may provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuits products and services may elect to use our competitors free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, and harm our ability to acquire and retain customers. Our consumer tax business also faces significant potential competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense. These or similar programs may be introduced or expanded in the future, which may change the voluntary compliance tax system in ways that could cause us to lose customers and revenue. The IRS Free File Program is currently the sole means by which the IRS offers tax software to taxpayers, and as part of the program the IRS has agreed it will not offer a duplicative or competing service. Under this program, the IRS has worked with private industry to provide more than 56 million free returns since 2003, utilizing donated private sector tax software and e-filing services for low and middle income taxpayers at no cost to the government or individual users. However, its continuation depends on a number of factors, including increasing public awareness of and access to the free program, as well as continued government support. The current agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2021. Recently, we have become the subject of certain lawsuits and regulatory inquiries relating to the provision and marketing of the product that we offer under the IRS Free File Program. While we believe that the allegations in these proceedings are without merit, the proceedings may decrease the governments support of such program and increase the likelihood that such program is terminated. If the Free File Program were to be terminated and the IRS were to enter the software development and return preparation space, the federal government would become a publicly funded direct competitor of the U.S. tax services industry and of Intuit. Government funded services that curtail or eliminate the role of taxpayers in preparing their own taxes could potentially have material and adverse revenue implications. Future revenue growth depends upon our ability to adapt to technological change as well as global trends in the way customers access software offerings and successfully introduce new and enhanced products, services and business models. We operate in industries that are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers. We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which requires us to devote significant resources. Our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services. As our existing products mature, encouraging customers to purchase product upgrades becomes more challenging unless new product releases provide features and functionality that have meaningful incremental value. We also provide additional customer benefits by utilizing customer data available to us through our existing offerings. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of new or upgraded products or services to our customers, or effectively utilize our customers data to provide them with value, our revenues may be harmed. In addition, as we continue to introduce and expand our new business models, including offerings that are free to end Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 13 Tables of Contents users, our customers may not perceive value in the additional benefits and services we offer beyond our free offering and may choose not to pay for those additional benefits or we may be unsuccessful in increasing customer adoption of these offerings or our risk profile may change, resulting in loss of revenue. We have devoted significant resources to develop products and services for users of mobile devices, but the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users. Even if we are able to attract new users through these mobile offerings, the amount of revenue that we derive per user from mobile offerings may be less than the revenue that we have historically derived from users of personal computers. As new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on mobile devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such offerings. If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are compatible with mobile devices, or if our competitors are able to achieve those results more quickly than us, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services, which could adversely affect our business. Further, legislation or regulatory changes may mandate changes in our products that make them less attractive to users. In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on offerings that do not ultimately succeed in their markets. We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past. If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed. We have also invested, and in the future, expect to invest in new business models, geographies, strategies and initiatives. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, expenses associated with the initiatives and inadequate return on investments. Because these new initiatives are inherently risky, they may not be successful and may harm our financial condition and operating results. We rely on third-party intellectual property in our products and services. Many of our products and services include intellectual property of third parties, which we license under agreements that may need to be renewed or renegotiated from time to time. We may not be able to obtain licenses to these third-party technologies or content on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use this intellectual property in our products and services, we may not be able to sell the affected offerings, and customers who are currently using the affected product may be disrupted, which may in turn harm our future financial results, damage our brand, and result in customer loss. Also, we and our customers have been and may continue to be subject to infringement claims as a result of the third-party intellectual property incorporated in our offerings. Although we try to mitigate this risk and we may not be ultimately liable for any potential infringement, pending claims require us to use significant resources, require management attention and could result in loss of customers. Some of our offerings include third-party software that is licensed under so-called open source licenses, some of which may include a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we make available, or grant licenses to, any modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to mitigate these risks, we may not be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source may not be eliminated, and may, if not properly addressed, harm our business. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, domain names and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. The efforts that we take to protect our proprietary rights may not always be sufficient or effective. Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, our brand and our ability to compete. Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming. Current U.S. laws that prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of many other countries provide very little protection. We frequently encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces. Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to lessen the impact of piracy and engage in efforts to educate consumers and public policy leaders on these issues and cooperate with industry groups in their efforts to combat piracy, we expect piracy to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased expenses. Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands. Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and services and is an important element in attracting new customers. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to events or activities attributed to us, members of our workforce, agents, third parties we rely on, or our users, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Our brand value also depends on our ability to provide secure and trustworthy products and services as well as our ability to protect and use our customers data in a manner that meets their Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 14 Tables of Contents expectations. In addition, a security incident which results in unauthorized disclosure of our customers sensitive data could cause material reputational harm. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of the brands and could also reduce our stock price. Our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business, may involve increased expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions. We have acquired and may continue to acquire companies, products, technologies and talent that complement our strategic direction, both in and outside the United States. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: inability to successfully integrate the acquired technology, data assets and operations into our business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures; inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; challenges retaining the key employees, customers, resellers and other business partners of the acquired operation; the internal control environment of an acquired entity may not be consistent with our standards or with regulatory requirements, and may require significant time and resources to align or rectify; unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including product or service quality issues, intellectual property issues and legal contingencies; failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology and any resulting impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; risks associated with businesses we acquire or invest in, which may differ from or be more significant than the risks our other businesses face; and in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. We have divested and may in the future divest certain assets or businesses that no longer fit with our strategic direction or growth targets. Divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: inability to find potential buyers on favorable terms; failure to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to buyers; requirements that we retain or indemnify buyers against certain liabilities and obligations; the possibility that we will become subject to third-party claims arising out of such divestiture; challenges in identifying and separating the intellectual property and data to be divested from the intellectual property and data that we wish to retain; inability to reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business; challenges in collecting the proceeds from any divestiture; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; loss of key employees who leave us as a result of a divestiture; and if customers or partners of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, our other businesses may be adversely affected, to the extent that these customers or partners also purchase other products offered by us or otherwise conduct business with our retained business. In addition, any acquisition or divestiture that we announce may not be completed if closing conditions are not satisfied. Because acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky, our transactions may not be successful and may, in some cases, harm our operating results or financial condition. Although we typically fund our acquisitions through cash available from operations, if we were to use debt to fund acquisitions or for other purposes, our interest expense and leverage would increase significantly, and if we were to issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders percentage ownership and earnings per share would be diluted. OPERATIONAL RISKS Operational risks arise from internal and external events relating to systems, processes and people. Risks that affect the operation of our businesses include the following: potential security incidents; privacy and cybersecurity concerns relating to online offerings; fraudulent activities by third parties; relationships with third parties; competition for and retention of key talent; issues with our product launches; problems with our information technology infrastructure; and risks associated with operating internationally. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 15 Tables of Contents Security incidents, improper access to or disclosure of our data or customers data, or other cyberattacks on our systems could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. We host, collect, use and retain large amounts of sensitive and personal customer and workforce data, including credit card information, tax return information, bank account numbers, login credentials and passwords, personal and business financial data and transactions data, social security numbers and payroll information, as well as our confidential, nonpublic business information. We use commercially available security technologies and security and business controls to limit access to and use of such sensitive data. Although we expend significant resources to create security protections designed to shield this data against potential theft and security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, social engineering, malicious software programs, insider threats, and other cybersecurity incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of sensitive and personal data of our customers and members of our workforce, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems. These types of attacks can be made by individuals, groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states themselves. Customers who fail to update their systems, continue to run software that we no longer support or that fail to install security patches on a timely basis create vulnerabilities and make it more difficult for us to detect and prevent these kinds of attacks. We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. There may be vulnerabilities in open source software that make it susceptible to cyberattacks. In addition, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive information change frequently, and are becoming more sophisticated and are often not able to be detected until after a successful attack, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware across platforms, it may increasingly affect our offerings because cyber-criminals tend to focus their efforts on well-known offerings that are popular among customers and hold sensitive information and we expect them to continue to do so. Further, the security measures that we implement may not be able to prevent unauthorized access to our products and our customers account data. Third parties may fraudulently induce members of our workforce, customers, or users by social engineering means, such as email phishing, to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our systems. It is also possible that unauthorized access to or disclosure of customer data may occur due to inadequate use of security controls by our customers or members of our workforce. Accounts created with weak or recycled passwords could allow cyberattackers to gain access to customer data. Unauthorized persons could gain access to customer accounts if customers do not maintain effective access controls of their systems and software. Criminals may also use stolen identity information obtained outside of our systems to gain unauthorized access to our customers data. We have experienced such instances in the past and as the accessibility of stolen identity information increases, generally, we may experience further instances of unauthorized access to our systems through the use of stolen identity information of our customers or members of our workforce in the future. Further, our customers may choose to use the same user ID and password across multiple products and services unrelated to our products. Such customers login credentials may be stolen from products offered by third-party service providers unrelated to us and the stolen identity information may be used by a malicious third party to access our products, which could result in disclosure of confidential information. Our efforts to protect data may also be unsuccessful due to software bugs (whether open source or proprietary code), break-ins, workforce member error or other threats that evolve. Further, because we have created an ecosystem where customers can have one identity across multiple Intuit products, a security incident may give access to increased amounts of customer data. This may result in disclosure of confidential information, loss of customer confidence in our products, possible litigation, material harm to our reputation and financial condition, disruption of our or our customers business operations and a decline in our stock price. From time to time, we detect, or receive notices from customers or public or private agencies that they have detected, actual or perceived vulnerabilities in our servers, our software or third-party software components that are distributed with our products or fraudulent activity by unauthorized persons utilizing our products with stolen customer identity information. The existence of such vulnerabilities or fraudulent activity, even if they do not result in a security breach, may undermine customer confidence as well as the confidence of government agencies that regulate our offerings. Such perceived vulnerabilities could also seriously harm our business by tarnishing our reputation and brand and/or limiting the adoption of our products and services and could cause our stock price to decline. A cybersecurity incident affecting the third parties we rely on could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential information and significantly damage our reputation. We depend on a number of third parties, including vendors, developers and partners who are critical to our business. We or our customers may grant access to customer data to these third parties to help deliver customer benefits, or to host certain of our and our customers' sensitive and personal data. In addition, we share sensitive, nonpublic business information (including, for example, materials relating to financial, business and legal strategies) with other vendors in the ordinary course of business. While we conduct background checks of our workforce, conduct reviews of partners, developers and vendors and use commercially available technologies to limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals or third parties may misrepresent their intended use of data or may circumvent our controls, resulting in accidental or intentional Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 16 Tables of Contents disclosure or misuse of our customers or employees data. Further, while we conduct due diligence on these third parties with respect to their security and business controls, we may not have the ability to effectively monitor or oversee the implementation of these control measures. Individuals or third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business controls and/or exploit vulnerabilities that may exist in these controls, resulting in the disclosure or misuse of sensitive business and personal customer or employee information and data. A security incident involving third parties whom we rely on may have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including disclosure of sensitive customer or employee data, or confidential or competitively sensitive information regarding our business, including intellectual property and other proprietary data; make our products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity; cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems; result in possible litigation, fines, penalties and damages; result in loss of customer confidence; cause material harm to our reputation and brands; lead to further regulation and oversight by federal or state agencies; cause adverse financial condition; and result in a reduced stock price. Concerns about the current privacy and cybersecurity environment, generally, could deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services and damage our reputation. The continued occurrence of cyberattacks and data breaches on governments, businesses and consumers in general indicates that we operate in an external environment where cyberattacks and data breaches are becoming increasingly common. If the global cybersecurity environment worsens, and there are increased instances of security breaches of third-party offerings where consumers data and sensitive information is compromised, consumers may be less willing to use online offerings, particularly offerings like ours in which customers often share sensitive financial data. In addition, the increased availability of data obtained as a result of breaches of third-party offerings could make our own products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity. Even if our products are not affected directly by such incidents, any such incident could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether. If we are unable to effectively combat the increasing amount and sophistication of fraudulent activities by third parties using our offerings, we may suffer losses, which may be substantial, and lose the confidence of our customers and government agencies and our revenues and earnings may be harmed. The online tax preparation, payroll administration and online payments industries have been experiencing an increasing amount of fraudulent activities by third parties, and those fraudulent activities are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Although we do not believe that any of this activity is uniquely targeted at our products or business, this type of fraudulent activity may adversely impact our tax, payroll, and payments businesses. In addition to any losses that may result from such fraud, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence by our customers or by governmental agencies in our ability to prevent fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our offerings may seriously harm our business and damage our brand. If we cannot adequately combat such fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our tax offerings, governmental authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to offer such services, which could include federal or state tax authorities refusing to allow us to process our customers tax returns electronically, resulting in a significant adverse impact on our earnings and revenue. As fraudulent activities become more pervasive and increasingly sophisticated, and fraud detection and prevention measures must become correspondingly more complex to combat them across the various industries in which we operate, we may implement risk control mechanisms that could make it more difficult for legitimate customers to obtain and use our products, which could result in lost revenue and negatively impact our earnings. If we fail to process transactions effectively or fail to adequately protect against disputed or potential fraudulent activities, our business may be harmed. Our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis, especially in our payroll and payments businesses. Despite our efforts to ensure that effective processing systems and controls are in place to handle transactions appropriately, it is possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated due to fraud. The likelihood of any such error or misappropriation may increase as we accelerate the speed at which we process transactions. The systems supporting our business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are sometimes difficult to scale. If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, or if there is an error in our products, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results. In our payments processing service business, if merchants for whom we process payment transactions are unable to pay refunds due to their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant transactions, we may be required to pay those amounts and our payments may exceed the amount of the customer reserves we have established to make such payments. Business interruption or failure of our information technology and communication systems may impair the availability of our products and services, which may damage our reputation and harm our future financial results. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our products and our underlying technical infrastructure. As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation and availability of our information technology and communications systems and those of our Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 17 Tables of Contents external service providers, including, for example, third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. We have designed a significant portion of our software and computer systems to utilize data processing and storage capabilities provided by public cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services. If any public cloud service that we use is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may not be able to access certain of our cloud products or features, which could significantly impact our operations, business, and financial results. Failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers, may result in interruptions in our service and loss of data or processing capabilities, all of which may cause a loss in customers, refunds of product fees, material harm to our reputation and operating results. Our tax businesses must effectively handle extremely heavy customer demand during critical peak periods from January until April of each year. We face significant risks in maintaining adequate service levels during these peak periods when we derive a substantial portion of our overall revenue from the tax businesses. Any interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax season, particularly during a peak period, could result in significantly decreased revenue, lost customers, unexpected refunds of customer charges, negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and other service providers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests and host certain online activities. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems may prevent us or our service providers from accepting and fulfilling customer orders or cause company and customer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and expand our network security and other information systems as well as our high-availability capabilities may be costly, and problems with the design or implementation of system enhancements may harm our business and our results of operations. Our business operations, data centers, information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, human error, malicious attacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. In addition, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. In the event of a major natural or man-made disaster, our insurance coverage may not completely compensate us for our losses and our future financial results may be materially harmed. We regularly invest resources to update and improve our internal information technology systems and software platforms. Should our investments not succeed, or if delays or other issues with new or existing internal technology systems and software platforms disrupt our operations, our business could be harmed. We rely on our network and data center infrastructure and internal technology systems for many of our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet existing needs, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our business and customers. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in updating and upgrading our systems and architecture, we may experience outages and may not be able to deliver certain offerings and develop new offerings and enhancements that we need to remain competitive. Such improvements and upgrades are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or may uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in outages, disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue or damage to our reputation. If we are unable to develop, manage and maintain critical third-party business relationships, our business may be adversely affected. Our growth is increasingly dependent on the strength of our business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, manage and maintain new and existing relationships with third-party partners. We rely on various third-party partners, including software and service providers, suppliers, vendors, manufacturers, distributors, accountants, contractors, financial institutions, core processors, licensing partners and development partners, among others, in many areas of our business in order to deliver our offerings and operate our business. We also rely on third parties to support the operation of our business by maintaining our physical facilities, equipment, power systems and infrastructure. In certain instances, these third-party relationships are sole source or limited source relationships and can be difficult to replace or substitute depending on the level of integration of the third partys products or services into, or with, our offerings and/or the general availability of such third partys products and services. In addition, there may be few or no alternative third-party providers or vendors in the market. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately retain third-party contractors engaged to help us operate our business. The failure of third parties to provide acceptable and high quality products, services and technologies or to update their products, services and technologies may result in a disruption to our business operations and our customers, which may reduce our revenues and profits, cause us to lose customers and damage our reputation. Alternative arrangements and services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 18 Tables of Contents Although we have strict standards for our suppliers and business partners to comply with the law and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data use and security, environmental compliance, intellectual property licensing and other applicable regulatory and compliance requirements, we cannot control their day-to-day practices. If any of them violate laws or implement practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. In particular, we have relationships with banks, credit unions and other financial institutions that support certain critical services we offer to our customers. If macroeconomic conditions or other factors cause any of these institutions to fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services or institute cost-cutting efforts, our business and financial results may suffer and we may be unable to offer those services to our customers. We increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apples App Store and Googles Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings. Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers. Any adverse changes by these third parties could adversely affect our financial results. Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive team, and those in technical and other key positions. Experienced personnel in the software, mobile technologies, data science, data security, and software as a service industries are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in California and India, where the majority of our employees are located. Also, as we strive to continue to adapt to technological change and introduce new and enhanced products and business models, we must be able to secure, maintain and develop the right quality and quantity of engaged and committed talent. The incentives we have available to attract, retain, and motivate employees provided by our equity awards may become less effective, and if we were to issue significant equity to attract additional employees, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract, retain and develop key personnel, which may cause our business to suffer. If we experience significant product accuracy or quality problems or delays in product launches, it may harm our revenue, earnings and reputation. All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate unpredictable and potentially late tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline. Due to the complexity of our products and the condensed development cycles under which we operate, our products may contain errors that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software or result in incorrect calculations. The complexity of the tax laws on which our products are based may also make it difficult for us to consistently deliver offerings that contain the features, functionality and level of accuracy that our customers expect. When we encounter problems we may be required to modify our code, work with state tax administrators to communicate with affected customers, assist customers with amendments, distribute patches to customers who have already purchased the product and recall or repackage existing product inventory in our distribution channels. If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products either late in our development cycle or after release it may cause us to delay our product launch date or suspend product availability until such issues can be fixed. Any major defects, launch delays or product suspensions may lead to loss of customers and revenue, negative publicity, customer and employee dissatisfaction, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, and increased operating expenses, such as inventory replacement costs, legal fees or other payments, including those resulting from our accuracy guarantee in our tax preparation products. For example, an error in our tax products could cause a compliance error for taxpayers, including the over or underpayment of their federal or state tax liability. While our accuracy guarantee commits us to reimburse penalties and interest paid by customers due solely to calculation errors in our tax preparation products, such errors may result in additional burdens on third parties that we may need to address or that may cause us to suspend the availability of our products until such errors are addressed. This could also affect our reputation, the willingness of customers to use our products, and our financial results. Further, as we develop our platform to connect people to experts, such as connecting TurboTax customers with tax experts through our TurboTax Live offering, or connecting QuickBooks customers with bookkeepers through our QuickBooks Live offering, we face the risk that these experts may provide advice that is erroneous, ineffective or otherwise unsuitable. Any such deficiency in the advice given by these experts may cause harm to our customers, a loss of customer confidence in our offerings or harm to our reputation or financial results. Our international operations are subject to increased risks which may harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand into international markets, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 19 Tables of Contents different or more restrictive privacy, data protection, data localization, and other laws that could require us to make changes to our products, services and operations, such as mandating that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, and foreign currency exchange restrictions; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, acts of war and terrorism; import or export regulations; compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and laws and regulations of other jurisdictions prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments; economic uncertainties relating to European sovereign and other debt; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; and risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws. Violations of the rapidly evolving and complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions or sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and may result in harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition. LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Legal and compliance risks arise from change in the government and regulatory environment, including complex and evolving regulations relating privacy and data security; potential litigation; regulatory inquiries and intellectual property infringement claims. Increased government regulation of our businesses, or changes to existing regulations, may harm our operating results. The Company is subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that affect the Companys activities, including, without limitation, areas of labor, advertising, tax, financial services, data privacy and security, electronic funds transfer, money transmission, lending, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and infringement, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety, and other regulated activities. There have been significant new regulations and heightened focus by the government on many of these areas, as well as in areas such as insurance and privacy. A s we expand our products and services and revise our business models, both domestically and internationally, we may become subject to additional government regulation or increased regulatory scrutiny. Further, regulators (both in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions in which we operate) may adopt new laws or regulations, change existing regulations, or their interpretation of existing laws or regulations may differ from ours. The tax preparation industry continues to receive heightened attention from federal and state governments. New legislation, regulation, public policy considerations, changes in the cybersecurity environment, litigation by the government or private entities, changes to or new interpretations of existing laws may result in greater oversight of the tax preparation industry, restrict the types of products and services that we can offer or the prices we can charge, or otherwise cause us to change the way we operate our tax businesses or offer our tax products and services. We may not be able to respond quickly to such regulatory, legislative and other developments, and these changes may in turn increase our cost of doing business and limit our revenue opportunities. In addition, if our practices are not consistent with new interpretations of existing laws, we may become subject to lawsuits, penalties, and other liabilities that did not previously apply. We are also required to comply with a variety of state revenue agency standards in order to successfully operate our tax preparation and electronic filing services. Changes in state-imposed requirements by one or more of the states, including the required use of specific technologies or technology standards, may significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our customers and may prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely manner. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 20 Tables of Contents Complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations or otherwise harm our business. Regulations related to the provision of online services is evolving as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new, or modify existing laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of data. This includes, for example, the EU's new regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the new California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA), which will become effective on January 1, 2020. In our efforts to meet the GDPR, CCPA and other data privacy regulations, we have made and continue to make certain operational changes to our products and business practices. If we are unable to engineer products that meet these evolving requirements or help our customers meet their obligations under these or other new data regulations, we might experience reduced demand for our offerings. Further, penalties for non-compliance with these laws may be significant. In addition, there are global privacy treaties and frameworks that have created compliance uncertainty and increased complexity. For example, the European Commission and the Swiss Government approved the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, that provide a mechanism for companies to legally transfer personal data from the EU and Switzerland to the U.S. However, these frameworks as well as other personal data transfer mechanisms face a number of legal challenges, both by regulators and private parties. A change in these transfer mechanisms could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Other governmental authorities throughout the U.S. and around the world are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require notification to customers or workers of a security breach, restrict our use or storage of personal information, or cause changes in customer purchasing behavior which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may make customers less likely to purchase our products and may harm our future financial results. Additionally, any actual or alleged noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in negative publicity and subject us to investigations, claims or other remedies, including demands that we modify or cease existing business practices, and expose us to significant fines, penalties and other damages. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with existing privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. We are frequently a party to litigation and regulatory inquiries which could result in an unfavorable outcome and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We are subject to various legal proceedings (including class action lawsuits), claims and regulatory inquiries that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional claims and inquiries may arise in the future. The number and significance of these claims and inquiries may increase as our businesses evolve. Any proceedings, claims or inquiries initiated by or against us, whether successful or not, may be time consuming; result in costly litigation, damage awards, consent decrees, injunctive relief or increased costs of business; require us to change our business practices or products; require significant amounts of management time; result in diversion of significant operations resources; or otherwise harm our business and future financial results. For further information about specific litigation, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights may cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. We may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, including patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement claims. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others. We have received a number of allegations of intellectual property infringement claims in the past and expect to receive more claims in the future based on allegations that our offerings infringe upon the intellectual property held by third parties. Some of these claims are the subject of pending litigation against us and against some of our customers. These claims may involve patent holding companies or other adverse intellectual property owners who have no relevant product revenues of their own, and against whom our own intellectual property may provide little or no deterrence. The ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain and, regardless of outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert managements time and attention from our business, require us to stop selling, delay shipping or redesign our products, or require us to pay monetary damages for royalty or licensing fees, or to satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims may harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services. The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information such as online content disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges. In spite of settled law in the U.S., claims are made against online services companies by parties who disagree with the content. Where our online content is accessed on the internet outside of the U.S., challenges may be brought under foreign laws which do not provide the same protections for online services companies as in the U.S. These challenges in either U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may give rise to legal claims alleging defamation, libel, invasion Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 21 Tables of Contents of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through the services. Certain of our services include content generated by users of our online services. Although this content is not generated by us, claims of defamation or other injury may be made against us for that content. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability may harm our business. FINANCIAL RISKS Financial risks relate to our ability to meet financial obligations and mitigate exposure to financial impacts to our businesses or our offerings. Financial risks arise from the following: seasonality; excessive subscription cancellations and product returns; unanticipated changes in income tax rates; adverse global macro-economic conditions; credit risks; fluctuations in our net income; indebtedness; and the fluctuation of our stock price. Our tax business is highly seasonal and our quarterly results could fluctuate significantly. Our tax offerings have significant seasonal patterns. Revenue from income tax preparation products and services is heavily concentrated during November through April. This seasonality has caused significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. Our financial results may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to a variety of factors, including factors that may affect the timing of revenue recognition. These include changes to our offerings that result in the inclusion or exclusion of ongoing services; changes in product pricing strategies or product sales mix; the timing of the availability of federal and state tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions; changes in customer behavior; and the timing of our discontinuation of support for older product offerings. Other factors that may affect our quarterly or annual financial results include the timing of acquisitions, divestitures, and goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment charges. Any fluctuations in our operating results may adversely affect our stock price. If actual customer refunds for our offerings exceed the amount we have reserved our future financial results may be harmed. Like many software companies we refund customers for product returns and subscription cancellations. We establish reserves against revenue in our financial statements based on estimated customer refunds. We closely monitor this refund activity in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, customer refunds have not differed significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual customer refunds that significantly exceed the amount we have reserved, it may result in lower net revenue. Unanticipated changes in our income tax rates or other indirect tax may affect our future financial results. Our future effective income tax rates may be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, by changes in our stock price, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Foreign governments may enact tax laws that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These continuous examinations may result in unforeseen tax-related liabilities, which may harm our future financial results. An increasing number of states and foreign jurisdictions have adopted laws or administrative practices, that impose new taxes on all or a portion of gross revenue or other similar amounts or impose additional obligations to collect transaction taxes such as sales, consumption, value added, or similar taxes. We may not have sufficient lead time to build systems and processes to collect these taxes properly, or at all. Failure to comply with such laws or administrative practices, or a successful assertion by such states or foreign jurisdictions requiring us to collect taxes where we do not, could result in tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest. Adverse global economic conditions could harm our business and financial condition. Adverse macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Adverse global economic events have caused, and could, in the future, cause disruptions and volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and could impact consumer and small business spending. While we have historically performed well in economic downturns, there is no guarantee that we would continue to perform well in future adverse macroeconomic conditions. In particular, because the majority of our revenue is derived from sales within the U.S., economic conditions in the U.S. have an even greater impact on us than companies with a more diverse international presence. Challenging economic times could cause potential new customers not to purchase or to delay purchasing our products and services, and could cause our existing customers to discontinue purchasing or delay upgrades of our existing products and services, thereby negatively impacting our revenues and future financial results. Decreased consumer spending levels could also reduce credit and debit card transaction processing volumes causing reductions in our payments revenue. Poor economic conditions and high unemployment have caused, and could in the future cause, a significant decrease in the number of tax returns filed, which may have a significant effect on the number of tax returns we prepare and file. In addition, weakness in the end-user consumer and small business markets could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 22 Tables of Contents their obligations to us, which could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenue or future sales to these customers. Any of these events could harm our business and our future financial results. We provide capital to small businesses, which exposes us to certain risk, and may cause us material financial or reputational harm. We provide capital to qualified small businesses, which exposes us to the risk of our borrowers inability to repay such loans. We have also entered into credit arrangements with financial institutions to obtain the capital we provide under this offering. Any termination or interruption in the financial institutions ability to lend to us could interrupt our ability to provide capital to qualified small businesses. Further, our credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting and scoring models used to evaluate loan applications may contain errors or may not adequately assess creditworthiness of our borrowers, or may be otherwise ineffective, resulting in incorrect approvals or denials of loans. It is also possible that loan applicants could provide false or incorrect information. While we have not incurred any material losses to date, if any of the foregoing events were to occur, our reputation and relationships with borrowers, and our financial results, could be harmed. Amortization of acquired intangible assets and impairment charges may cause significant fluctuation in our net income. Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization and impairment of acquired technology and other acquired intangible assets, and impairment of goodwill. Total costs and expenses in these categories were $26 million in fiscal 2019; $21 million in fiscal 2018; and $14 million in fiscal 2017. Although under current accounting rules goodwill is not amortized, we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We test the impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that may not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. At July 31, 2019 , we had $1.7 billion in goodwill and $54 million in net acquired intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet, both of which may be subject to impairment charges in the future. New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of acquired intangible assets, may have a significant negative impact on our future financial results. We have incurred indebtedness and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. As of July 31, 2019 , we had an aggregate of $436 million of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities. We may incur additional debt in the future. This debt may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things: increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries. Our current unsecured and secured revolving credit facilities impose restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our short- and long-term debt includes covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the covenants under our short- and long-term debt or our unsecured revolving credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our unsecured revolving credit facility or our secured term loan may increase. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. We have a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase our common stock. The repurchase programs do not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. Our repurchase programs may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. Also, the amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchase programs may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes and because of changes in cash flows, tax laws, and the market price of our common stock. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 23 Tables of Contents Our stock price may be volatile and your investment could lose value. Our stock price is subject to changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business or security of our products, can cause changes in our stock price. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes may adversely affect our stock price. Further, any changes in the amounts or frequency of share repurchases or dividends may also adversely affect our stock price. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which may result in substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources, which may adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B - UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES Our principal locations, their purposes, and the expiration dates for the leases on facilities at those locations as of July 31, 2019 are shown in the table below. We have renewal options on many of our leases. Location Purpose Approximate Square Feet Principal Lease Expiration Dates Mountain View, California Corporate headquarters and principal offices for Small Business & Self-Employed segment 487,000 2024 - 2026 Mountain View, California Corporate headquarters and principal offices for Small Business & Self-Employed segment 225,000 Owned San Diego, California Principal offices for Consumer segment 466,000 Owned Bangalore, India Principal offices for Intuit India 434,000 2020 - 2022 Plano, Texas Principal offices for Strategic Partner segment and data center 166,000 2026 We also lease or own facilities in a number of domestic locations and lease facilities internationally in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, Israel, and several other locations. We believe our facilities are suitable and adequate for our current and near-term needs, and that we will be able to locate additional facilities as needed. See Note 8 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information about our lease commitments. ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In fiscal 2015 Intuit was contacted by certain state and federal regulatory authorities in connection with inquiries regarding an increase during the 2015 tax season in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds. Intuit provided information in response to those inquiries and now believes those inquiries are resolved. A consolidated putative class action lawsuit was filed by individuals who claim to have suffered damages in connection with the 2015 events. On May 23, 2018, the parties reached a settlement in principle of this matter. The settlement was granted final approval and the matter was dismissed with prejudice by the court on May 15, 2019. The terms of the settlement are not material to our consolidated financial statements. Beginning in May 2019, various lawsuits were filed and certain regulatory inquiries were commenced in connection with our provision and marketing of free online tax preparation programs. We believe that the allegations contained within these lawsuits are without merit. We intend to vigorously defend against the lawsuits and cooperate in the investigations. Intuit is subject to certain routine legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits, as well as demands, claims, government inquiries and threatened litigation, that arise in the normal course of our business, including assertions that we may be infringing patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims could adversely affect our business. We currently believe that, in addition to any amounts accrued, the amount of potential losses, if any, for any pending claims of any type (either alone or combined) will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The ultimate outcome of any litigation is uncertain and, Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 24 Tables of Contents regardless of outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on Intuit because of defense costs, negative publicity, diversion of management resources and other factors. ITEM 4 - MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 25 Tables of Contents PART II ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information for Common Stock Intuits common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol INTU. Stockholders As of August 23, 2019 we had approximately 415 record holders and approximately 340,000 beneficial holders of our common stock. Dividends We declared cash dividends that totaled $1.88 per share of outstanding common stock or $500 million during fiscal 2019 and $1.56 per share of outstanding common stock or $407 million during fiscal 2018 . In August 2019 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.53 per share of outstanding common stock payable on October 18, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 10, 2019 . We currently expect to continue to pay comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis in the future; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Stock repurchase activity during the three months ended July 31, 2019 was as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans May 1, 2019 through May 31, 2019 195,800 $246.14 195,800 $2,788,110,001 June 1, 2019 through June 30, 2019 178,000 $257.01 178,000 $2,742,361,439 July 1, 2019 through July 31, 2019 195,800 $276.96 195,800 $2,688,133,406 Total 569,600 $260.13 569,600 Note: All of the shares purchased during the three months ended July 31, 2019 were purchased under a plan we announced on August 19, 2016 pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase up to $2 billion of our common stock. On August 21, 2018, our Board approved a new stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to an additional $2 billion of our common stock. At July 31, 2019 , authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to $2.7 billion remained available under these plans. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 26 Tables of Contents Company Stock Price Performance The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on Intuit common stock for the last five full fiscal years with the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Index and the Morgan Stanley Technology Index for the same period. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in Intuit common stock and in each of the other indices on July 31, 2014 and that all dividends were reinvested. The comparisons in the graph below are based on historical data with Intuit common stock prices based on the closing price on the dates indicated and are not intended to forecast the possible future performance of Intuits common stock. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Intuit Inc., the S&P 500 Index, and Morgan Stanley Technology Index *$100 invested on 07/31/14 in stock or index, including reinvestments of dividends. Fiscal year ending July 31. Copyright 2019 Standard and Poors, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. July 31, 2014 July 31, 2015 July 31, 2016 July 31, 2017 July 31, 2018 July 31, 2019 Intuit Inc. $ 100.00 $ 130.43 $ 138.51 $ 173.22 $ 260.23 $ 356.17 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 111.21 $ 117.45 $ 136.29 $ 158.43 $ 171.08 Morgan Stanley Technology Index $ 100.00 $ 112.47 $ 125.98 $ 161.01 $ 212.39 $ 238.62 Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 27 Tables of Contents ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following tables show Intuits selected financial information for the past five fiscal years. The comparability of the information is affected by a variety of factors, including acquisitions and divestitures of businesses, issuance and repayment of debt, share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired technology and other acquired intangible assets, repurchases of common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. The consolidated statement of operations data for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of July 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 reflect the full retrospective application of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). See Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. The consolidated statement of operations data for fiscal 2016 and 2015 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of July 31, 2016 and 2015 do not reflect the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and continue to be reported under the standards in effect for those periods. In fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2015 we acquired several companies and we have included the results of operations for each of them in our consolidated results of operations from their respective dates of acquisition. In fiscal 2016 we completed the sales of our Demandforce, QuickBase, and Quicken businesses. We accounted for all of these businesses as discontinued operations and have therefore included their results on our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 to reflect them as such. Our consolidated balance sheet for fiscal 2015 reflects Demandforce, QuickBase, and Quicken as discontinued operations. To better understand the information in these tables, investors should read Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Annual Report, and the financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Consolidated Statement of Operations Data Fiscal (In millions, except per share amounts) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total net revenue $ 6,784 $ 6,025 $ 5,196 $ 4,694 $ 4,192 Total costs and expenses 4,930 4,465 3,778 3,452 3,454 Operating income from continuing operations 1,854 1,560 1,418 1,242 738 Total share-based compensation expense included in total costs and expenses 401 382 326 278 242 Net income from continuing operations 1,557 1,329 985 806 413 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations 173 (48 ) Net income 1,557 1,329 985 979 365 Net income per common share: Basic net income per share from continuing operations $ 5.99 $ 5.18 $ 3.83 $ 3.08 $ 1.47 Basic net income (loss) per share from discontinued operations 0.65 (0.17 ) Basic net income per share $ 5.99 $ 5.18 $ 3.83 $ 3.73 $ 1.30 Diluted net income per share from continuing operations $ 5.89 $ 5.09 $ 3.78 $ 3.04 $ 1.45 Diluted net income (loss) per share from discontinued operations 0.65 (0.17 ) Diluted net income per share $ 5.89 $ 5.09 $ 3.78 $ 3.69 $ 1.28 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.88 $ 1.56 $ 1.36 $ 1.20 $ 1.00 Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 28 Tables of Contents Consolidated Balance Sheet Data At July 31, (In millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 2,740 $ 1,716 $ 777 $ 1,080 $ 1,697 Working capital (deficit) 1,628 679 (205 ) (637 ) 816 Total assets 6,283 5,134 3,977 4,250 4,968 Short-term debt 50 50 50 512 Long-term debt 386 388 438 488 500 Long-term deferred income tax liabilities 37 68 78 7 50 Other long-term obligations (1) 145 119 124 343 274 Total stockholders equity 3,749 2,816 1,699 1,161 2,332 (1) Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, other long-term obligations includes long-term deferred revenue. The balances as of July 31, 2016 and 2015 conform to this presentation, but as noted above do not reflect the adoption of ASU 2014-09. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 29 Tables of Contents ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide readers of our consolidated financial statements with the perspectives of management. This should allow the readers of this report to obtain a comprehensive understanding of our businesses, strategies, current trends, and future prospects. Our MD&A includes the following sections: Executive Overview: High level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: Policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations: A more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources: Discussion of key aspects of our consolidated statements of cash flows, changes in our consolidated balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Effective August 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash . All prior period amounts have been restated to comply with these standards. See Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. In fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2019 we acquired several companies including TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. We have included their results of operations in our consolidated results of operations from their respective dates of acquisition. See Note 6 in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This overview provides a high level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results for fiscal 2019 as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Trends and Seasonality Industry Trends A.I. is transforming multiple industries, including financial technology. Disruptive start-ups, emerging ecosystems and mega-platforms are harnessing new technology to create personalized experiences, deliver data-driven insights and increase speed of service. These shifts are creating a more dynamic and highly competitive environment where customer expectations are shifting around the world as more services become digitized and the array of choices continues to increase. Seasonality Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and Strategic Partner businesses to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Intuit Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K 30 Tables of Contents Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain, and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. For our consumer and professional tax offerings, we have implemented additional security measures and are continuing to work with state and federal governments to share information regarding suspicious filings. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this Report. Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; operating income growth for the company as a whole ; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses. Service offerings are a significant part of our business. Our total service and other revenue was $5.2 billion or 76% of our total revenue in fiscal 2019 and we expect our total service and other revenue to continue to grow in the future. Key highlights for fiscal 2019 include the following: Revenue of Small Business & Self-Employed revenue of Consumer revenue of $6.8 B $3.5 B $2.8 B up 13% from fiscal 2018 up 15% from fiscal 2018 up 11% from fiscal 2018 Operating income of Net income of Diluted net income per share of $1.9 B $1.6 B $5.89 up 19% from fiscal 2018 up 17% from fiscal 2018 up 16% from fiscal 2018 Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 31 Tables of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we are required to make estimates, assumptions, and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. We believe that the estimates, assumptions, and judgments involved in the following accounting policies have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition Business Combinations Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets, and Other Long-Lived Assets Impairment Assessments Accounting for Share-Based Compensation Plans Legal Contingencies Accounting for Income Taxes Estimates of Deferred Taxes, Valuation Allowances, and Uncertain Tax Positions Our senior management has reviewed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and their disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition We derive our revenue primarily from the sale of packaged desktop software products, desktop software subscriptions, and online services such as tax, accounting, payroll, and merchant payment processing. Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services. In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process. The primary judgments include identifying the performance obligations in the contract and determining whether the performance obligations are distinct. If any of these judgments were to change it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue we report in a particular period. For additional information, see Revenue Recognition in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Business Combinations As described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Business Combinations, in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, under the acquisition method of accounting we generally recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in an acquiree at their fair values as of the date of acquisition. We measure goodwill as the excess of consideration transferred, which we also measure at fair value, over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The acquisition method of accounting requires us to exercise judgment and make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair values of the elements of a business combination as of the date of acquisition, including the fair values of identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, and contingencies. This method also requires us to refine these estimates over a one-year measurement period to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. If we are required to retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions, these adjustments could materially decrease our operating income and net income and result in lower asset values on our consolidated balance sheet. Significant estimates and assumptions that we must make in estimating the fair value of acquired technology, customer lists, and other identifiable intangible assets include future cash flows that we expect to generate from the acquired assets. If the subsequent actual results and updated projections of the underlying business activity change compared with the assumptions and projections used to develop these values, we could record impairment charges. In addition, we have estimated the economic lives of certain acquired assets and these lives are used to calculate depreciation and amortization expense. If our estimates of the economic lives change, depreciation or amortization expenses could be accelerated or slowed. Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets Impairment Assessments We estimate the fair value of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite useful lives whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. We test for potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or whenever indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the annual test may result in charges to our consolidated statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that could not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. As described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets, in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, in order to estimate the fair value of goodwill we use a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow model (known as the income Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 32 Tables of Contents approach) and comparisons to publicly traded companies engaged in similar businesses (known as the market approach). The income approach requires us to use a number of assumptions, including market factors specific to the business, the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the business over an extended period of time, long-term growth rates for the business, and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. We evaluate cash flows at the reporting unit level. Although the assumptions we use in our discounted cash flow model are consistent with the assumptions we use to generate our internal strategic plans and forecasts, significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows from each reporting unit and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. When using the market approach, we make judgments about the comparability of publicly traded companies engaged in similar businesses. We base our judgments on factors such as size, growth rates, profitability, risk, and return on investment. We also make judgments when adjusting market multiples of revenue, operating income, and earnings for these companies to reflect their relative similarity to our own businesses. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a summary of goodwill by reportable segment. We estimate the recoverability of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite useful lives by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows that we expect the asset to generate. In order to estimate the fair value of those assets, we estimate the present value of future cash flows from those assets. The key assumptions that we use in our discounted cash flow model are the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset over an extended period of time and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. Significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. We also make judgments about the remaining useful lives of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite lives. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a summary of cost, accumulated amortization and weighted average life in years for our acquired intangible assets. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. For example, if our future operating results do not meet current forecasts or if we experience a sustained decline in our market capitalization that is determined to be indicative of a reduction in fair value of one or more of our reporting units, we may be required to record future impairment charges for goodwill and acquired intangible assets. Impairment charges could materially decrease our future net income and result in lower asset values on our consolidated balance sheet. During the fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 , fiscal 2018 , and fiscal 2017 we performed our annual goodwill impairment tests. Using the methodology described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets, in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, we determined that the estimated fair values of all of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and that they were not impaired. In addition, during this analysis we concluded that the estimated fair values of all of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values. Accounting for Share-Based Compensation Plans Restricted stock units (RSUs) granted typically vest based on continued service. We value these time-based RSUs at the date of grant using the intrinsic value method. We amortize the fair value of time-based RSUs on a straight-line basis over the service period. Certain RSUs granted to senior management vest based on the achievement of pre-established performance or market goals. We estimate the fair value of performance-based RSUs at the date of grant using the intrinsic value method and the probability that the specified performance criteria will be met. Each quarter we update our assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved and adjust our estimate of the fair value of the performance-based RSUs if necessary. We amortize the fair values of performance-based RSUs over the requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of the award. We estimate the fair value of market-based RSUs at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology and amortize those fair values over the requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of the award. The Monte Carlo methodology that we use to estimate the fair value of market-based RSUs at the date of grant incorporates into the valuation the possibility that the market condition may not be satisfied. Provided that the requisite service is rendered, the total fair value of the market-based RSUs at the date of grant must be recognized as compensation expense even if the market condition is not achieved. However, the number of shares that ultimately vest can vary significantly with the performance of the specified market criteria. All of the RSUs we grant have dividend rights that are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying equity awards, so we do not adjust the intrinsic (market) value of our RSUs for dividends. We use a lattice binomial model and the assumptions described in Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report to estimate the fair value of stock options granted. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on implied exercise patterns using a binomial model. We estimate the volatility of our common stock at the date of grant based on the implied volatility of publicly traded one-year and two-year options on our common stock. Our decision to use implied volatility is based upon the availability of actively traded options on our common stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. We base the risk-free interest rate that we use in our option valuation model on the implied yield in effect at the time of option grant on constant maturity U.S. Treasury issues with equivalent remaining terms. We use an annualized expected dividend yield in our option valuation model. We adjust share-based compensation expense for actual forfeitures as they occur. We amortize the fair value of options on a Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 33 Tables of Contents straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. We may elect to use different assumptions under our option valuation model in the future, which could materially affect our net income or loss and net income or loss per share. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Legal Contingencies We are subject to certain legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. We review the status of each significant matter quarterly and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability and an expense for the estimated loss. If we determine that a loss is possible and the range of the loss can be reasonably determined, then we disclose the range of the possible loss. Significant judgment is required in the determination of whether a potential loss is probable, reasonably possible, or remote as well as in the determination of whether a potential exposure is reasonably estimable. Our accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Potential legal liabilities and the revision of estimates of potential legal liabilities could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. See Note 12 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Accounting for Income Taxes Estimates of Deferred Taxes, Valuation Allowances, and Uncertain Tax Positions We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax rules and the potential for future adjustment of our uncertain tax positions by the United States Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions. We estimate our current tax liability and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which we show on our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding tax expense in our consolidated statement of operations. We record a valuation allowance to reflect uncertainties about whether we will be able to utilize our deferred tax assets before they expire. We assess the need for an adjustment to the valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. The assessment is based on our estimates of future sources of taxable income in the jurisdictions in which we operate and the periods over which our deferred tax assets will be realizable. While we have considered future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance for the periods presented, we could in the future be required to increase the valuation allowance to take into account additional deferred tax assets that we may be unable to realize. An increase in the valuation allowance could have an adverse impact on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the change. We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. See Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 34 Tables of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 2019-2018 % Change 2018-2017 % Change Total net revenue $6,784 $6,025 $5,196 13 % 16 % Operating income 1,854 1,560 1,418 19 % 10 % Net income 1,557 1,329 985 17 % 35 % Diluted net income per share $5.89 $5.09 $3.78 16 % 35 % Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 Total net revenue increased $759 million or 13% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 . Our Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue increased 15% due to growth in the Online Ecosystem. Our Consumer segment revenue increased 11% due to a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings, growth in TurboTax federal units, and a higher average revenue per customer. See Segment Results later in this Item 7 for more information. Operating income increased $294 million or 19% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 . The increase was due to the higher revenue described above partially offset by higher costs for advertising, marketing, staffing, and outside services. Additionally, in fiscal 2018, we recorded a $79 million loss related to the sale of our data center in Quincy, Washington. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 7 for more information. Net income increased $228 million or 17% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to the increase in operating income described above, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate in fiscal 2019 . Net income for fiscal 2018 includes tax benefits related to the reorganization of a subsidiary and the re-measurement of our net deferred tax liability balances as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act). See Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Diluted net income per share increased 16% to $5.89 as a result of the increase in net income noted above. Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 Total net revenue increased $829 million or 16% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 . Revenue in our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased 19% primarily due to growth in the Online Ecosystem driven by customer acquisition. Our Consumer segment revenue increased 15% due to a higher average revenue per customer, growth in TurboTax federal units, and a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings. See Segment Results later in this Item 7 for more information. Operating income increased $142 million or 10% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs for staffing, advertising, marketing, outside services, and share-based compensation. We also recorded a $79 million loss related to the sale of our data center in Quincy, Washington in the 2018 period. See Operating Expenses later in this Item 7 for more information. Net income increased $344 million or 35% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to the increase in operating income described above and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2018 period. Net income for fiscal 2018 includes tax benefits related to the reorganization of a subsidiary and the re-measurement of our net deferred tax liability balances as a result of the 2017 Tax Act. Additionally, the U.S statutory federal corporate tax rate decreased from 35% to 21% under the 2017 Tax Act. The change resulted in a blended lower U.S. statutory federal rate of 26.9% for fiscal 2018. See Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes later in this Item 7 for more information. Diluted net income per share for fiscal 2018 increased 35% to $5.09 , in line with the increase in net income. Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. All of our segments operate and sell to customers primarily in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. Segment operating income is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $1.73 billion in fiscal 2019 , $1.62 billion in fiscal 2018 , and $1.32 billion in fiscal 2017 . Unallocated costs increased in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 and in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to increased corporate product development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 35 Tables of Contents higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology and amortization of other acquired intangible assets which totaled $26 million in fiscal 2019 , $21 million in fiscal 2018 , and $14 million in fiscal 2017 . See Note 13 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income to consolidated operating income for each fiscal year presented. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 36 Tables of Contents Small Business & Self-Employed Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue includes both Online Ecosystem and Desktop Ecosystem revenue. Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from QuickBooks Online, QuickBooks Online Advanced and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll; merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use online offerings; and financing for small businesses. Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products (Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Point of Sale); QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use desktop offerings; and financial supplies. Segment product revenue is derived from revenue related to software license and version protection for our QuickBooks Desktop products and subscriptions, license and related updates for our desktop payroll products and financial supplies, which are all part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Segment service and other revenue is derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue; and Desktop Ecosystem revenue related to support and connected services for our QuickBooks Desktop and desktop payroll products and subscriptions and merchant payment processing services. (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 2019-2018 % Change 2018-2017 % Change Product revenue $ 1,036 $ 1,038 $ 908 Service and other revenue 2,497 2,023 1,666 Total segment revenue $ 3,533 $ 3,061 $ 2,574 15 % 19 % % of total revenue 52 % 51 % 50 % Segment operating income $ 1,549 $ 1,326 $ 1,111 17 % 19 % % of related revenue 44 % 43 % 43 % Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 37 Tables of Contents Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 Revenue for our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased $472 million or 15% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 . The increase was primarily due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue. Online Ecosystem Online Ecosystem revenue increased $457 million or 38% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 . QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased 41% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to an increase in QuickBooks Online subscribers and average revenue per customer. At July 31, 2019 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 4.5 million, up 32% compared to July 31, 2018 . Online Services revenue increased 34% primarily due to customer growth in online payroll and payments and an increase in revenue from other online services. Desktop Ecosystem Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased $15 million or 1% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 , primarily due to an increase in license revenue for our QuickBooks Enterprise offering and an increase in revenue from our payroll and payments offerings as a result of customer growth during the period. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from the delivery of version protection for our QuickBooks Enterprise customers. Small Business & Self-Employed segment operating income increased $223 million or 17% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to the higher revenue described above which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing. Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 Revenue for our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased $487 million or 19% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 . The increase was primarily due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue. Online Ecosystem Online Ecosystem revenue increased $348 million or 41% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 . QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased 41% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to an increase in QuickBooks Online subscribers. At July 31, 2018 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 3.4 million, up 43% compared to July 31, 2017 . Online Services revenue increased 25% due to customer growth in online payroll and payments. Desktop Ecosystem Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased $139 million or 8% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 , primarily due to an increase in revenue related to our QuickBooks Enterprise offering driven by growth in our QuickBooks Enterprise subscribers, an increase in average revenue per customer, as well as a change in our QuickBooks Enterprise offering that occurred when customers renewed their subscriptions during fiscal 2018. This increase was partially off-set by a decrease in revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop units as unit sales declined 15%. Small Business & Self-Employed segment operating income increased $215 million or 19% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to the higher revenue described above which was partially offset by higher expenses for staffing, advertising, and marketing. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 38 Tables of Contents Consumer Consumer segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates. Consumer segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online and TurboTax Live offerings, electronic tax filing services and connected services, and also from our Mint and Turbo offerings. (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 2019-2018 % Change 2018-2017 % Change Product revenue $ 201 $ 210 $ 207 Service and other revenue 2,574 2,298 1,975 Total segment revenue $ 2,775 $ 2,508 $ 2,182 11 % 15 % % of total revenue 41 % 42 % 42 % Segment operating income $ 1,742 $ 1,587 $ 1,376 10 % 15 % % of related revenue 63 % 63 % 63 % Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 Revenue for our Consumer segment increased $267 million or 11% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to a shift in mix to our higher priced product offerings including TurboTax Live, a 5% growth in TurboTax federal units, and a higher average revenue per customer. Consumer segment operating income increased $155 million or 10% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to the higher revenue described above, which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing. Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 Revenue for our Consumer segment increased $326 million or 15% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to a higher average revenue per customer, a 4% growth in TurboTax federal units, and a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings. Consumer segment operating income increased $211 million or 15% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to the higher revenue described above which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 39 Tables of Contents Strategic Partner Strategic Partner segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products and related form updates. Strategic Partner segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing service, connected services, and bank products. (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 2019-2018 % Change 2018-2017 % Change Product revenue $ 386 $ 376 $ 368 Service and other revenue 90 80 72 Total segment revenue $ 476 $ 456 $ 440 4 % 4 % % of total revenue 7 % 7 % 8 % Segment operating income $ 318 $ 284 $ 266 12 % 7 % % of related revenue 67 % 62 % 60 % Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 Revenue for our Strategic Partner segment increased $20 million or 4% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 primarily due to a higher average revenue per customer. Strategic Partner segment operating income increased $34 million or 12% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 primarily due to the higher revenue described above and lower staffing expenses. Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 Revenue for our Strategic Partner segment increased $16 million or 4% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 primarily due to a higher average revenue per customer. Strategic Partner segment operating income increased $18 million or 7% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 primarily due to the higher revenue described above and relatively stable spending. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 40 Tables of Contents Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2019 % of Related Revenue Fiscal 2018 % of Related Revenue Fiscal 2017 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 77 5 % $ 82 5 % $ 89 6 % Cost of service and other revenue 1,070 21 % 881 20 % 709 19 % Amortization of acquired technology 20 n/a 15 n/a 12 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 1,167 17 % $ 978 16 % $ 810 16 % Our cost of revenue has three components: (1) cost of product revenue, which includes the direct costs of manufacturing and shipping or electronically downloading our desktop software products; (2) cost of service and other revenue, which includes the direct costs associated with our online and service offerings, such as data center and customer support costs as well as the costs for the tax and bookkeeping professionals that support our TurboTax Live and QuickBooks Live offerings; and (3) amortization of acquired technology, which represents the cost of amortizing developed technologies that we have obtained through acquisitions over their useful lives. Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue was relatively consistent across all periods presented. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was relatively consistent across all periods presented. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Fiscal 2019 % of Total Net Revenue Fiscal 2018 % of Total Net Revenue Fiscal 2017 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 1,927 28 % $ 1,631 27 % $ 1,415 27 % Research and development 1,233 18 % 1,186 20 % 998 19 % General and administrative 597 9 % 664 11 % 553 11 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 6 % 6 % 2 % Total operating expenses $ 3,763 55 % $ 3,487 58 % $ 2,968 57 % Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 . Total net revenue increased $759 million or 13% and total operating expenses increased $276 million or 8% . The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $195 million for higher advertising and marketing expenses, $94 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, and $54 million for outside services. General and administrative expenses in the fiscal 2018 period include a $79 million loss related to the sale of our data center in Quincy, Washington. Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue increased slightly in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 . Total net revenue increased $829 million or 16% and total operating expenses increased $519 million or 17% . The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $193 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, $127 million for higher advertising and marketing expenses, and $49 million for outside services. General and administrative expenses in the fiscal 2018 period include a $79 million loss related to the sale of our data center in Quincy, Washington. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $15 million in fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and secured revolving credit facility. Interest expense of $20 million in fiscal 2018 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and unsecured revolving credit facility. Interest expense of $31 million in fiscal 2017 consisted primarily of interest on our senior notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured revolving credit facility. See Note 7 and Note 8 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 41 Tables of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net (In millions) Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Interest income (1) $ 46 $ 18 $ 8 Net gain on executive deferred compensation plan assets (2) 3 7 7 Other (7 ) 1 (12 ) Total interest and other income, net $ 42 $ 26 $ 3 ( 1) Interest income increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 due to higher average invested balances and higher average interest rates. Interest income increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 due to higher average invested balances and higher average interest rates. ( 2) In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Income Taxes Effective Tax Rate Our effective tax rates for fiscal 2018 and 2017 have been restated to reflect the full retrospective application of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606 ). See Note 1 and Note 9 to the financial statement in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. The 2017 Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 and reduced the U.S. statutory federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. The effective date of the tax rate change was January 1, 2018. The change resulted in a blended lower U.S. statutory federal rate of 26.9% for fiscal year 2018. In fiscal 2019, we fully benefited from the enacted lower tax rate of 21%. We recorded a provisional benefit of $29 million for fiscal 2018 related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax balances as the result of the 2017 Tax Act. In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we completed our accounting for the income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act, and there have been no material adjustments during the fiscal 2019 period. Our effective tax rates for fiscal 2019 , fiscal 2018 , and fiscal 2017 were approximately 17% , 15% , and 29% . Excluding the tax benefits related to share-based compensation our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was approximately 24%. This differed from the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the benefit we received from the federal research and experimentation credit. Excluding the tax benefits related to share-based compensation, the reorganization of a subsidiary, and the benefit related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax balances, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was approximately 26% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 26.9%. Excluding the tax benefits related to share-based compensation our effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 was approximately 34% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%. See Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information about our effective tax rates. At July 31, 2019 , we had net deferred tax liabilities of $36 million which included a valuation allowance of $107 million for loss and tax credit carryforwards related to state research and experimentation tax credits, foreign losses, and state operating and capital losses. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates earlier in this Item 7 and Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 42 Tables of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview At July 31, 2019 , our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $2.7 billion , an increase of $1.0 billion from July 31, 2018 due to the factors described in Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which includes the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, debt service costs and debt repayment, acquisitions of businesses, and capital projects. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 7, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) July 31, 2019 July 31, 2018 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 2,740 $ 1,716 $ 1,024 60 % Long-term investments 13 13 % Short-term debt 50 50 % Long-term debt 386 388 (2 ) (1 )% Working capital 1,628 679 949 140 % Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 1.8 : 1 1.4 : 1 We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so during fiscal 2020 . Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $2.7 billion at July 31, 2019 , none of those funds were restricted, and approximately 90% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and share repurchases. At July 31, 2019 , no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility. Our secured revolving credit facility is available to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. At July 31, 2019 , $48 million was outstanding under the secured revolving credit facility. See Note 7 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to quickly respond to these kinds of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal 2019 , fiscal 2018 , and fiscal 2017 . Effective August 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. The amounts below have been restated to comply with this new standard. See the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for complete consolidated statements of cash flows for those periods. Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal (Dollars in millions) 2019 2018 2017 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 2,324 $ 2,112 $ 1,599 Investing activities (566 ) (537 ) (17 ) Financing activities (1,034 ) (634 ) (1,632 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents (3 ) (11 ) 9 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents $ 721 $ 930 $ (41 ) Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 43 Tables of Contents During fiscal 2019 we generated $2.3 billion in cash from operations. We also received $48 million from borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility and $33 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used $556 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $501 million for the payment of cash dividends, $155 million for capital expenditures, $64 million for the acquisition of a business net of cash acquired, $49 million for net originations of term loans, and $50 million for the repayment of debt. During fiscal 2018 we generated $2.1 billion in cash from operations. We also received $800 million from borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, and $96 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used $850 million for the repayment of debt and amounts outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility, $407 million for the payment of cash dividends, $272 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $363 million for the acquisitions of businesses net of cash acquired, and $124 million for capital expenditures. During fiscal 2017 we generated $1.6 billion in cash from operations. We also received $190 million in cash from net sales of investments, $150 million from borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, and $73 million from the net issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used $662 million in cash for the repayment of debt and amounts outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility, $839 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $353 million for the payment of cash dividends, and $230 million for capital expenditures. Stock Repurchase Programs and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, during fiscal 2019 , fiscal 2018 , and fiscal 2017 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under a series of repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At July 31, 2019 , we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.7 billion for stock repurchases. We have continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. During fiscal 2019 we declared cash dividends that totaled $1.88 per share of outstanding common stock or approximately $500 million . In August 2019 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.53 per share of outstanding common stock payable on October 18, 2019 to stockholders of records at the close of business on October 10, 2019 . We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Business Combinations During fiscal 2018 we acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. for total combined cash and other consideration of approximately $412 million . The $412 million included approximately $27 million for the fair value of equity awards and other cash consideration that is being charged to expense over the future service period of up to three years. These three businesses became part of our Small Business & Self-Employed segment and provide additional features to our QuickBooks offerings such as automated time tracking and scheduling and the calculation and filing of sales and use taxes. We have included their results of operations in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of acquisition. Their results of operations for all periods presented and periods prior to the dates of acquisition were not material when compared with our consolidated results of operations. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Credit Facilities Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan On May 2, 2019 we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion, including a $400 million unsecured term loan that matures on February 1, 2021 and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on May 2, 2024. This agreement amended and restated our prior unsecured revolving credit facility dated February 1, 2016. Under the amended and restated credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the unsecured revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the unsecured revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.1% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.69% to 1.1%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At July 31, 2019 , no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 44 Tables of Contents On May 2, 2019 $400 million was outstanding on the term loan under the amended and restated credit agreement. Under this agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $400 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.125% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 0.625% to 1.125%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments of $12.5 million, with the balance payable on February 1, 2021. At July 31, 2019 , $388 million was outstanding under the term loan. The amended and restated credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. As of July 31, 2019 we were compliant with all required covenants. Secured Revolving Credit Facility On February 19, 2019 a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a $300 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender. The revolving credit facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. Advances under this secured revolving credit facility are used to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. The secured revolving credit facility is available for use for a term of two years and accrues interest at LIBOR plus 2.39% . Unused portions of the credit facility accrue interest at a rate of 0.5% . Outstanding advances mature on August 19, 2021 and payments made prior to February 19, 2020 are subject to a 1% prepayment fee. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. As of July 31, 2019 we were compliant with all required covenants. At July 31, 2019 , $48 million was outstanding under this facility, with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.75% , which includes the unused facility fee. The outstanding balance is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary totaling $89 million . Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $2.7 billion at July 31, 2019 . Approximately 10% of those funds were held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada and India. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act we do not expect to pay incremental U.S. taxes on repatriation. We have recorded income tax expense for Canada and India withholding and distribution taxes on earnings that are not permanently reinvested. In the event that funds from foreign operations are repatriated to the United States, we would pay withholding or distribution taxes at that time. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS At July 31, 2019 , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 45 Tables of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations to make future payments at July 31, 2019 : Payments Due by Period Less than 1-3 3-5 More than (In millions) 1 year years years 5 years Total Amounts due under executive deferred compensation plan $ 108 $ $ $ $ 108 Unsecured term loan 50 338 388 Secured revolving credit facility 48 48 Interest and fees due on debt 16 11 2 29 Operating leases (1) 68 116 101 67 352 Purchase obligations (2) 302 74 376 Total contractual obligations (3) $ 544 $ 587 $ 103 $ 67 $ 1,301 (1) Includes operating leases for facilities and equipment. Amounts do not include $57 million of future sublease income. We had no significant capital leases at July 31, 2019 . See Note 8 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. (2) Represents agreements to purchase products and services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payments. (3) Other long-term obligations on our consolidated balance sheet at July 31, 2019 included long-term income tax liabilities of $89 million which related primarily to unrecognized tax benefits. We have not included this amount in the table above because we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate regarding the timing of settlements with taxing authorities, if any. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a description of recent accounting pronouncements and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 46 Tables of Contents