ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide readers of our condensed consolidated financial statements with the perspectives of management. This should allow the readers of this report to obtain a comprehensive understanding of our businesses, strategies, current trends, and future prospects. Our MD&A includes the following sections: Executive Overview: High level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: Significant changes since our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements. Results of Operations: A more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources: Discussion of key aspects of our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, changes in our condensed consolidated balance sheets, and our financial commitments. You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I for important information to consider when evaluating such statements. You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2020. In August 2020, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions that support and benefit our overall platform. Additionally, certain legal, facility and employee service costs are now managed at the corporate level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other common expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2019, we reclassified $ 43 million from Small Business & Self-Employed, $ 25 million from Consumer, and $ 3 million from ProConnect to other common expenses. In August 2020, we also renamed our Strategic Partner segment as the ProConnect segment. This segment continues to serve professional accountants. Segment results for fiscal 2020 have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2021 segment presentation. In March 2020 the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has had significant adverse impacts on the U.S. and global economies. We are conducting business with substantial modifications to employee work locations and employee travel, among other modifications. While we have not experienced significant disruptions to our operations thus far from the COVID-19 pandemic, we are unable to predict the full impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our operations and future financial performance, including demand for our offerings, impact to our customers and partners, actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, and other factors identified in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This overview provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 26 Table of Contents About Intuit Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us serve small business customers. We organize our businesses into three reportable segments Small Business & Self-Employed, Consumer, and ProConnect. Small Business & Self-Employed : This segment serves small businesses and the self-employed around the world, and the accounting professionals who assist and advise them. Our offerings include QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, merchant payment processing solutions, and financing for small businesses. Consumer : This segment serves consumers and includes do-it-yourself and assisted TurboTax income tax preparation products and services sold in the U.S. and Canada. Our Mint and Turbo offerings serve consumers and help them understand and improve their financial lives by offering a view of their financial health. ProConnect: This segment serves professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings include Lacerte, ProSeries, ProFile, and ProConnect Tax Online. Our Growth Strategy At Intuit, our strategy starts with customer obsession. We listen to and observe our customers, understand their challenges, and then use advanced technology, including artificial intelligence (AI), to develop innovative solutions designed to solve their problems and help them grow and prosper. For more than three decades, our values have inspired us to innovate and reimagine ways to save people time and money, eliminate drudgery and inspire confidence. We have reinvented and disrupted ourselves to better serve our customers, along the way. Our strategy for delivering on our bold goals is to become an AI-driven expert platform where we and others can solve our customers' most important problems. We plan to accelerate the development of the platform by applying AI in the three key areas: Machine Learning - Building algorithms which progressively learn from data to automate tasks for our customers. Knowledge Engineering - Turning rules, such as IRS regulations, and relationships about data into code to eliminate work and provide tailored experiences. Natural Language Processing - Processing, analyzing and understanding human language to create interactions with customers and automate repetitive tasks. As we build our AI-driven expert platform, we are prioritizing our resources on five strategic priorities across the company. These priorities focus on solving the problems that matter most to customers and include: Revolutionizing speed to benefit : When customers use our products and services, we aim to deliver value instantly by making the interactions with our offerings frictionless, without the need for customers to manually enter data. We are accelerating the application of AI with a goal to revolutionize the customer experience. This priority is foundational across our business, and execution against it positions us to succeed with our other four strategic priorities. Connecting people to experts : The largest problem our customers face is lack of confidence to file their own taxes or to manage their books. To build their confidence, we are connecting our customers to experts. We offer customers access to experts to help them make important decisions and experts, such as accountants, gain access to new customers so they can grow their businesses. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 27 Table of Contents Unlocking smart money decisions : Crippling high-cost debt and lack of savings are at unprecedented levels across the U.S. With the insights generated through our ecosystem, we strive to offer the right financial opportunities based on a customers unique situation. We expect that our proposed acquisition of Credit Karma will help us tackle these problems. Be the center of small business growth : We are focused on helping customers grow their businesses by offering a broad, seamless set of tools that are designed to help them get paid faster, manage and get access to capital, pay employees with confidence, and use third-party apps to help run their businesses. At the same time, we want to position ourselves to better serve product-based businesses to benefit customers who sell products through multiple channels. Disrupt the small business mid-market : We aim to disrupt the mid-market with QuickBooks Online Advanced, our online offering designed to address the needs of small business customers with 10 to 100 employees. This offering enables us to increase retention of these larger customers, and attract new mid-market customers who are over-served by available offerings. As the external environment evolves, we continue to innovate and adapt our strategy and anticipate our customers needs. For more than 35 years, we have been dedicated to developing innovative financial and compliance products and services that are easy to use and are available where and when customers need them. As a result, our customers actively recommend our products and solutions to others, which is one important way that we measure the success of our strategy. Industry Trends and Seasonality Industry Trends AI is transforming multiple industries, including financial technology. Disruptive start-ups, emerging ecosystems and mega-platforms are harnessing new technology to create personalized experiences, deliver data-driven insights and increase speed of service. These shifts are creating a more dynamic and highly competitive environment where customer expectations are shifting around the world as more services become digitized and the array of choices continues to increase. Seasonality Our Consumer and ProConnect offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. During fiscal 2020, as a relief measure in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Internal Revenue Service extended the filing deadline for the 2019 tax year from April 15, 2020 to July 15, 2020. Additionally, all states with a personal income tax also extended their due dates, predominantly to July. As a result, there was a shift in sales and revenue from our third fiscal quarter to our fourth fiscal quarter during fiscal 2020. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and ProConnect businesses to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Key Challenges and Risks Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. For our consumer and professional tax offerings, we have implemented additional security measures and are continuing to work with state and federal governments to implement industry-wide security and anti-fraud measures, including sharing information regarding suspicious filings. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud. For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see Forward-Looking Statements immediately preceding Part I and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 28 Table of Contents Overview of Financial Results The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; operating income growth for the company as a whole; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. Service offerings are a significant part of our business. Our total service and other revenue was $6.0 billion or 79% of our total revenue in fiscal 2020 and we expect our total service and other revenue to continue to grow in the future. Key highlights for the first three months of fiscal 2021 include the following: Revenue of Small Business & Self-Employed revenue of Cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $1.3 B $1.2 B $5.8 B up 14% from the same period of fiscal 2020 up 13% from the same period of fiscal 2020 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss, and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2020 have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider them to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. We believe that there were no significant changes in those critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of fiscal 2021. Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates and their disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Overview (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Q1 FY21 Q1 FY20 $ Change % Change Total net revenue $ 1,323 $ 1,165 $ 158 14 % Operating income 209 10 199 1,990 % Net income 198 57 141 247 % Diluted net income per share $ 0.75 $ 0.22 $ 0.53 241 % Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 increased $158 million or 14% compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2020. Our Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue increased during the quarter primarily due to growth in our Online Ecosystem revenue. Revenue in our Consumer and ProConnect segments was seasonally light, consistent with the same quarter of fiscal 2020. See Segment Results later in this Item 2 for more information about the results for all of our reportable segments. Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 increased $199 million compared with the same quarter of fiscal 2020. The increase was due to the increase in revenue described above and a decrease in cost of revenue and operating expenses. See "Cost of Revenue" and Operating Expenses later in this Item 2 for more information. Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 increased $141 million due to the increase in operating income described above, net of associated tax expense for the period. Diluted net income per share increased to $0.75 for the first quarter of fiscal 2021, in line with the increase in net income. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 29 Table of Contents Segment Results The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. See Executive Overview About Intuit earlier in this Item 2 and Note 11 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. All of our segments operate and sell to customers primarily in the United States. International total net revenue was approximately 6% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented. In August 2020, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions that support and benefit our overall platform. Additionally, certain legal, facility and employee service costs are now managed at the corporate level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other common expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2019, we reclassified $43 million from Small Business & Self-Employed, $25 million from Consumer, and $3 million from ProConnect to other common expenses. In August 2020, we also renamed our Strategic Partner segment as the ProConnect segment. This segment continues to serve professional accountants. Segment operating income or loss is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. See Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2 for a description of the seasonality of our business. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses, share-based compensation expenses, and certain technology and customer success costs, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $543 million in the first three months of fiscal 2021 and $537 million in the first three months of fiscal 2020. Unallocated costs increased in the fiscal 2021 period due to increased corporate product development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology and amortization of other acquired intangible assets which totaled $9 million in the first three months of fiscal 2021 and $8 million in the first three months of fiscal 2020. See Note 11 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income or loss to consolidated operating income or loss for each fiscal period presented. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 30 Table of Contents Small Business & Self-Employed Small Business & Self-Employed segment includes both Online Ecosystem and Desktop Ecosystem revenue. Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from QuickBooks Online, QuickBooks Live, QuickBooks Online Advanced and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll; merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use online offerings; and financing for small businesses. Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products (Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Point of Sale); QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use desktop offerings; financial supplies; and financing for small businesses. Segment product revenue is derived from revenue related to software license and version protection for our QuickBooks Desktop products and subscriptions, license and related updates for our desktop payroll products and financial supplies, which are all part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Segment service and other revenue is derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue; and Desktop Ecosystem revenue related to support and connected services for our QuickBooks Desktop and desktop payroll products and subscriptions and merchant payment processing services. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY21 Q1 FY20 % Change Product revenue $ 348 $ 336 4 % Service and other revenue 833 710 17 % Total segment revenue $ 1,181 $ 1,046 13 % % of total revenue 89 % 90 % Segment operating income $ 767 $ 593 29 % % of related revenue 65 % 57 % Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 31 Table of Contents Revenue classified by significant product and service offerings was as follows: (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY21 Q1 FY20 % Change Net revenue: QuickBooks Online Accounting $ 392 $ 306 28 % Online Services 229 195 17 % Total Online Ecosystem 621 501 24 % QuickBooks Desktop Accounting 241 239 1 % Desktop Services and Supplies 319 306 4 % Total Desktop Ecosystem 560 545 3 % Total Small Business & Self-Employed $ 1,181 $ 1,046 13 % Revenue for our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased $135 million or 13% in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared with the same period of fiscal 2020 primarily due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue. Online Ecosystem Online Ecosystem revenue increased $120 million or 24% in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared with the same period of fiscal 2020. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased 28% in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily due to an increase in customers as well as a shift in mix to our higher priced offerings. Online Services revenue increased 17% in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 primarily due to an increase in revenue from our payments and payroll offerings. Online payments revenue increased due to an increase in customers and an increase in charge volume per customer. Online payroll revenue increased due to a shift in mix to our full service offering and an increase in customers. Desktop Ecosystem Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased $15 million or 3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared with the same period of fiscal 2020 due to growth in customers for our QuickBooks Desktop Enterprise subscription offering, which was partially offset by a decrease in Desktop unit sales. Additionally, during the first quarter of fiscal 2021 there was an increase in revenue from our Pro Advisor offerings as a result of delivering an updated point-of-sale license and higher revenue from version protection as a result of price increases in the prior year. Small Business & Self-Employed segment operating income increased $174 million or 29% in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared with the same period of fiscal 2020 primarily due to the increase in revenue described above and lower expenses for marketing. In August 2020, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions that support and benefit our overall platform. Additionally, certain legal, facility and employee service costs are now managed at the corporate level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other common expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2019, we reclassified $43 million from Small Business & Self-Employed to other common expenses. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 32 Table of Contents Consumer Consumer segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates. Consumer segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online and TurboTax Live offerings, electronic tax filing services and connected services, and also from our Mint and Turbo offerings. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY21 Q1 FY20 % Change Product revenue $ 7 $ 6 17 % Service and other revenue 112 94 19 % Total segment revenue $ 119 $ 100 19 % % of total revenue 9 % 8 % Segment operating income (loss) $ 4 $ (20) (120) % % of related revenue 3 % (20) % Revenue for our Consumer segment increased $19 million or 19% in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared with the same period of fiscal 2020. Due to the seasonal nature of our Consumer offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from Consumer products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. In our first fiscal quarter, our Consumer segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while we continue to incur operating expenses for general and administrative functions and research and development. In the first quarter of fiscal 2021 expenses were slightly lower compared to the same period of fiscal 2020. In August 2020, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions that support and benefit our overall platform. Additionally, certain legal, facility and employee service costs are now managed at the corporate level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other common expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2019, we reclassified $25 million from Consumer to other common expenses. Because of the seasonality of our Consumer revenue, we do not believe that the revenue or operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 is indicative of trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2020 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2021. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 33 Table of Contents ProConnect ProConnect segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products and related form updates. ProConnect segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing service, connected services and, bank products. (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY21 Q1 FY20 % Change Product revenue $ 12 $ 11 9 % Service and other revenue 11 8 38 % Total segment revenue $ 23 $ 19 21 % % of total revenue 2 % 2 % Segment operating loss $ (10) $ (18) (43) % % of related revenue (43) % (92) % In August 2020, we renamed our Strategic Partner segment as the ProConnect segment. This segment continues to serve professional accountants. Revenue for our ProConnect segment revenue increased $4 million or 21% the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared with the same period of fiscal 2020. Due to the seasonal nature of our ProConnect offerings, we typically generate nominal revenue from professional tax products and services in our first fiscal quarter compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. The majority of revenue for the first quarter of each fiscal year is for the filing of extended returns for the previous tax year. In our first fiscal quarter, our ProConnect segment typically generates operating losses because revenue is nominal while we continue to incur operating expenses for general and administrative functions and research and development. In the first quarter of fiscal 2021 expenses were slightly lower compared to the same period of fiscal 2020. In August 2020, we reorganized certain technology and customer success functions that support and benefit our overall platform. Additionally, certain legal, facility and employee service costs are now managed at the corporate level. As a result, these costs are no longer included in segment operating income and are now included in other common expenses. For the three months ended October 31, 2019, we reclassified $3 million from ProConnect to other common expenses. Because of the seasonality of our ProConnect revenue, we do not believe that the revenue or operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 is indicative of trends for the current fiscal year. We will not have substantially complete results for the 2020 tax season until the third quarter of fiscal 2021. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 34 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY21 % of Related Revenue Q1 FY20 % of Related Revenue Cost of product revenue $ 15 4 % $ 17 5 % Cost of service and other revenue 234 24 % 267 33 % Amortization of acquired technology 7 n/a 6 n/a Total cost of revenue $ 256 19 % $ 290 25 % Our cost of revenue has three components: (1) cost of product revenue, which includes the direct costs of manufacturing and shipping or electronically downloading our desktop software products; (2) cost of service and other revenue, which includes the direct costs associated with our online and service offerings, such as costs for data processing and storage capabilities from cloud providers, customer support costs, costs for the tax and bookkeeping experts that support our TurboTax Live and QuickBooks Live offerings, as well as depreciation expense for developed technology; and (3) amortization of acquired technology which represents the cost of amortizing developed technologies that we have obtained through acquisitions over their useful lives. Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue was relatively consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared with the same period of fiscal 2020. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred. Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared to the same period of fiscal 2020 primarily due to a decrease in customer success costs as a result of fewer customer contacts and a decrease in depreciation expense. Operating Expenses (Dollars in millions) Q1 FY21 % of Total Net Revenue Q1 FY20 % of Total Net Revenue Selling and marketing $ 362 27 % $ 383 32 % Research and development 325 25 % 334 29 % General and administrative 169 13 % 146 13 % Amortization of other acquired intangible assets 2 % 2 % Total operating expenses $ 858 65 % $ 865 74 % Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared to the same period of fiscal 2020. Total net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2021 increased $158 million or 14% while total operating expenses for the quarter decreased $7 million or 1%. Marketing expenses decreased due to shifting some marketing activities to later in the year. Staff and facility expenses decreased as a result of lower headcount and our continued efforts to control discretionary spending with the COVID-19 pandemic. These decreases were partially offset by higher corporate related expenses and professional fees primarily related to the pending acquisition of Credit Karma. Non-Operating Income and Expenses Interest Expense Interest expense of $8 million for the first three months of fiscal 2021 consisted primarily of interest on our senior unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, unsecured revolving credit facility, and secured revolving credit facility. Interest expense of $2 million for the first three months of fiscal 2020 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and secured revolving credit facility. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 35 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net (In millions) Q1 FY21 Q1 FY20 Interest income (1) $ 3 $ 12 Net gain (loss) on executive deferred compensation plan assets (2) (1) 3 Other 7 (1) Total interest and other income, net $ 9 $ 14 (1) Interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 decreased compared to the same period of fiscal 2020 primarily due to lower average interest rates. (2) In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods. Income Taxes We compute our provision for or benefit from income taxes by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to income or loss from recurring operations and adding the effects of any discrete income tax items specific to the period. We recognized excess tax benefits on share-based compensation of $52 million and $29 million in our provision for income taxes for the three months ended October 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended October 31, 2020 was approximately 6%. Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits mentioned above, our effective tax rate was 25%. The difference from the federal statutory rate of 21% was primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the tax benefit we received from the federal research and experimentation credit. We recorded a $35 million tax benefit on pretax income of $22 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019. Excluding discrete tax items primarily related to share-based compensation tax benefits mentioned above, our effective tax rate was 24%. The difference from the federal statutory rate of 21% was primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the tax benefit we received from the federal research and experimentation credit. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview At October 31, 2020, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $5.8 billion, a decrease of $1.3 billion from July 31, 2020 due to the factors discussed under Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, the issuance of senior unsecured notes, and borrowings under our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. As discussed in Executive Overview Industry Trends and Seasonality earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated: (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2020 July 31, 2020 $ Change % Change Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 5,793 $ 7,050 $ (1,257) (18) % Long-term investments 28 19 9 47 % Short-term debt 325 1,338 (1,013) (76) % Long-term debt 2,032 2,031 1 % Working capital 4,499 4,451 48 1 % Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 3.1 2.3 We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $5.8 billion at October 31, 2020. None of those funds were restricted and approximately 96% of those funds were located in the U.S. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 36 Table of Contents On February 24, 2020, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the Merger Agreement) to acquire Credit Karma, Inc. (Credit Karma), for $7.1 billion, subject to certain customary adjustments set forth in the Merger Agreement. The purchase price for Credit Karma will be payable in equal portions of cash and Intuit common stock. The transaction is expected to close before the end of calendar year 2020. See Note 4 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we borrowed the full $1 billion under our unsecured revolving credit facility and issued $2 billion in senior unsecured notes for general corporate purposes, which may include funding a portion of the pending acquisition of Credit Karma, and other possible acquisitions of businesses or assets or strategic investments. In August 2020, we repaid the $1 billion outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations (including the pending acquisition of Credit Karma), commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We believe that our financial resources will allow us to manage the impact of COVID-19 on our business operations for the foreseeable future, which could include potential reductions in revenue and delays in payments from customers and partners. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs. In connection with our pending acquisition of Credit Karma, we have temporarily suspended share repurchases. Our secured revolving credit facility is available to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. At October 31, 2020, $48 million was outstanding under the secured revolving credit facility. We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to quickly respond to these types of opportunities. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected items from our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020. See the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for complete condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for those periods. Three Months Ended (Dollars in millions) October 31, 2020 October 31, 2019 $ Change Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 45 $ (127) $ 172 Investing activities (130) (57) (73) Financing activities (1,153) (325) (828) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents (1) (1) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents $ (1,239) $ (509) $ (730) Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 37 Table of Contents Our primary sources and uses of cash were as follows: Three Months Ended October 31, 2020 October 31, 2019 Sources of cash: Net sales of loans held for sale Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans Uses of cash: Repayment of debt Payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2020 Payment of cash dividends and dividend rights Acquisition of a business Capital expenditures Net originations of term loans to small businesses Sources of cash: Issuance of common stock under employee stock plans Uses of cash: Operations Payment of accrued bonuses for fiscal 2019 Repurchases of shares of our common stock Payment of cash dividends and dividend rights Capital expenditures Repayment of debt Net originations of term loans to small businesses Stock Repurchase Programs, Treasury Shares, and Dividends on Common Stock As described in Note 9 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, our Board of Directors has authorized a series of common stock repurchase programs. In connection with our pending acquisition of Credit Karma, we have temporarily suspended share repurchases. During the first three months of fiscal 2021 we repurchased no shares under these programs. At October 31, 2020, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.4 billion for stock repurchases. Future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. We have continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. During the three months ended October 31, 2020 we declared quarterly cash dividends that totaled $0.59 per share of outstanding common stock for a total of $157 million. In November 2020 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.59 per share of outstanding common stock payable on January 19, 2021 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 11, 2021. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Business Combinations On February 24, 2020, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the Merger Agreement) to acquire Credit Karma, Inc. (Credit Karma), for $7.1 billion, subject to certain customary adjustments set forth in the Merger Agreement. The purchase price for Credit Karma will be payable in equal portions of cash and Intuit common stock. The transaction is expected to close before the end of calendar year 2020 subject to receiving required regulatory approval. See Note 4 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Commitments for Senior Unsecured Notes In June 2020, we issued $2 billion of senior unsecured notes comprised of the following: $500 million of 0.650% notes due July 2023; $500 million of 0.950% notes due July 2025; $500 million of 1.350% notes due July 2027; and $500 million of 1.650% notes due July 2030 (together, the Notes). Interest is payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2021. At October 31, 2020, our maximum commitment for interest payments under the Notes was $164 million through the maturity dates. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Intuit and rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Intuit and are redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Upon the occurrence of change of control transactions that are accompanied by certain downgrades in the credit ratings of the Notes, we will be required to repurchase the Notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate outstanding principal plus any accrued and unpaid interest to but not including the date of repurchase. The indenture governing the Notes requires us to comply with certain covenants. For example, the Notes limit our ability to create certain liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. As of October 31, 2020 we were compliant with all covenants governing the Notes. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 38 Table of Contents Credit Facilities Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan On May 2, 2019 we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion, including a $400 million unsecured term loan that matures on February 1, 2021 and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on May 2, 2024. Under the amended and restated credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions including lender approval, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the unsecured revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the unsecured revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.1% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.69% to 1.1%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At October 31, 2020, no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it. On May 2, 2019 $400 million was outstanding on the term loan under the amended and restated credit agreement. Under this agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions including lender approval, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $400 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.125% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 0.625% to 1.125%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments of $12.5 million through October 31, 2020 with the balance payable on February 1, 2021. At October 31, 2020, $325 million was outstanding under the term loan. The amended and restated credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total gross debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. As of October 31, 2020 we were compliant with all required covenants. Secured Revolving Credit Facility On February 19, 2019, a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a two-year $300 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender. The revolving credit facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. Advances under this secured revolving credit facility are used to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses and accrue interest at LIBOR plus 2.39%. Unused portions of the credit facility accrue interest at a rate of 0.50%. On March 2, 2020, we amended the secured revolving credit facility to extend the commitment term from February 19, 2021 to February 19, 2022 and the final maturity date from August 19, 2021 to August 19, 2022. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. As of October 31, 2020 we were compliant with all required covenants. At October 31, 2020, $48 million was outstanding under this facility, with a weighted-average interest rate of 5.7%, which includes the unused facility fee. The outstanding balance is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary totaling $146 million. Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $5.8 billion at October 31, 2020. Approximately 4% of those funds were held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, and India. As a result of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act we do not expect to pay incremental U.S. taxes on repatriation. We have recorded income tax expense for Canada and India withholding taxes on earnings that are not permanently reinvested. In the event that funds from foreign operations are repatriated to the United States, we would pay withholding taxes at that time. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 39 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At October 31, 2020, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at July 31, 2020 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There were no significant changes to our contractual obligations during the first three months of fiscal 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report. Intuit Q1 Fiscal 2021 Form 10-Q 40 Table of Contents