Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; compliance with any requirements that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or supplement to the auditors' report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements; the requirement that we provide more detailed disclosures regarding executive compensation; compliance with the required public company effective dates for any new or revised accounting standards; the requirement that we hold a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and obtain stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We expect that compliance with these additional requirements will substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs. In addition, any failure to comply with these additional requirements in a timely manner, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests and may depress the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2023, we had warrants outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 13,529,455 shares of common stock. Pursuant to our employee benefit plans, we may issue an aggregate of up to 19,429,832 shares of common stock, which amount may be subject to increase from time to time. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank in the future in connection with, among other things, future acquisitions or repayment of outstanding indebtedness, without stockholder approval, in a number of circumstances. The issuance of additional shares or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: existing stockholders proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; the amount of cash available per share, including for payment of dividends, if any, may decrease; 46 the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share of common stock may be diminished; and the market price of our common stock may decline. There is no guarantee that the public warrants will be in the money, and they may expire worthless. The exercise price for our public warrants is $11.50 per share of common stock. There is no guarantee that the public warrants will be in the money prior to their expiration, and as such, the public warrants may expire worthless. The public warrants expire on September 30, 2026. We may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 50% of the then-outstanding public warrants. As a result, the exercise price of your public warrants could be increased, the exercise period could be shortened and the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a public warrant could be decreased, all without your approval. Our public warrants are issued in registered form under the Warrant Agreement between the warrant agent and us. The Warrant Agreement provides that the terms of the public warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 50% of the then-outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders of public warrants. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 50% of the then-outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the public warrants with the consent of at least 50% of the then-outstanding public warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, convert the public warrants into cash or stock (at a ratio different than initially provided), shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a public warrant. We may redeem unexpired public warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to warrantholders, thereby making such warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding public warrants prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which we give proper notice of such redemption and provided certain other conditions are met. If and when the public warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding public warrants could force you (1) to exercise your public warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (2) to sell your public warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your public warrants or (3) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding public warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your public warrants. In addition, we may redeem the public warrants after they become exercisable for a number of shares of common stock determined based on the redemption date and the fair market value of our common stock. Any such redemption may have similar consequences to a cash redemption described above. In addition, such redemption may occur at a time when the public warrants are out-of-the-money, in which case, you would lose any potential embedded value from a subsequent increase in the value of our common stock had your public warrants remained outstanding. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock; as a result, stockholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than the purchase price. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board, subject to applicable laws. It will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions, general business conditions, and other factors that the Board may deem relevant. In addition, the ability to pay cash dividends may be restricted by the terms of debt financing arrangements, as any future debt financing arrangement likely will contain terms restricting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. As a result, stockholders may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless they sell their shares for a price greater than what they paid for them. 47 Provisions in our organizational documents and certain rules imposed by regulatory authorities may delay or prevent an acquisition by a third party that could otherwise be in the interests of stockholders. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (Certificate of Incorporation) and amended and restated bylaws (Bylaws) contain several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of the Board. These provisions, which may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest, or other transaction that stockholders may consider favorable, include the following: a classified board; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; limiting the ability of stockholders to act by written consent; restrictions on business combinations with an interested stockholder; in certain cases, the approval of holders representing at least 66 2/3% of the total voting power of the shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors will be required for stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws, or amend or repeal certain provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation; no cumulative voting; the required approval of holders representing at least 66 2/3% of the total voting power of the shares entitled to vote at an election of the directors to remove directors; and the ability of the Board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used, among other things, to institute a rights plan that would have the effect of significantly diluting the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions. These provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could discourage potential takeover attempts and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. The provision of our Certificate of Incorporation requiring exclusive venue in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware and the federal district courts of the United States for certain types of lawsuits may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against directors and officers. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for: any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of us; any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer, agent or other employee or stockholder to us or our stockholders; any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL), the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; any claim or cause of action seeking to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws; or any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. It further provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for the resolutions of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. The exclusive forum clauses described above shall not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act, or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Although these provisions are expected to benefit us by providing increased consistency in the application of applicable law in the types of lawsuits to which they apply, the provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies certificates of 48 incorporation have been challenged in legal proceedings and there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce such provisions. In addition, investors cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. It is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. If so, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. These provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could discourage lawsuits against directors and officers, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy We recognize the importance of identifying and managing cybersecurity risks and have integrated cybersecurity risk management into our overall risk management processes. We have implemented processes to identify, assess, detect, evaluate, and mitigate ongoing security threats to our information technology systems and data as well as those of third parties upon which we rely. We conduct periodic and ad-hoc risk assessments to identify cybersecurity threats, as well as assessments in the event of a material change in our business practices that may affect information systems that are vulnerable to such cybersecurity threats. These risk assessments include identification of reasonably foreseeable internal and external risks, the likelihood and potential damage that could result from such risks, and the sufficiency of existing policies, procedures, systems, and safeguards in place to manage such risks. As part of our risk management process, we conduct application security and vulnerability assessments, undergo third-party penetration testing, maintain ongoing risk assessments, and monitor various third-party risk feeds. Our risk management processes also assess third party risks, and we perform third-party risk management to identify and mitigate risks from third parties such as vendors, suppliers, and other business partners. In evaluating our response to our application security assessments, penetration tests, and risk feeds, our team collaborates with technical and business stakeholders to further analyze the risk to the company, and form detection, mitigation and remediation strategies to enhance our current security program. Our security program is aligned to the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework Special Publication (NIST) 800-53 standard, and we have passed a SOC 2 type 1 audit. Although we refer to such frameworks in developing our cybersecurity risk management approaches, our use of them as guides is not intended to suggest that we meet any particular technical standards, specifications, or requirements set forth therein. We maintain an incident response plan which includes, among other areas, prioritization guidelines, data collection and evidence handling, communication channels and partners, and if required, law enforcement engagement. We maintain relationships with both local and national law enforcement agencies. We evaluate security incidents on a scale of severity to determine the appropriate incident handling protocols. We require all employees to undertake data protection and security training at least annually. We provide specialized training to targeted groups of employees depending on their role and the larger threat landscape. We are briefed regularly by national law enforcement, and work with external consulting firms on custom training and evaluations. While we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past, to date, none have materially affected the Company or our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We continue to invest in the cybersecurity and resiliency of our systems and networks and to enhance our internal controls and processes, which are designed to help protect our systems and infrastructure, and the information they contain. Additional information about cybersecurity risks we face is discussed in Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors, under the heading If our information technology systems, data, or physical facilities, or those of third parties upon which we rely, are or were compromised, we could experience adverse business consequences resulting from such compromise, which should be read in conjunction with the information contained within Item 1C, Cybersecurity. 49 Cybersecurity Governance The Companys Board of Directors oversees the overall risk management process, including cybersecurity risks, directly and through its committees. Our Audit Committee is responsible for the oversight of cybersecurity risks, including our assessment of potential vulnerabilities and threats, evaluation of incidents, and monitoring of the implementation of key actions and/or projects to further enhance our ability to detect and manage ongoing security threats. Key members of management, including our security officer, provide updates to our Audit Committee on at least a semi annual basis. In addition to committee updates, our security officer also meets with the full Board of Directors at least annually to discuss the Companys overall risk profile and associated ongoing mitigation efforts. The briefings provided to our Audit Committee and Board of Directors include updates on the Companys key cyber risks and threats, the status of projects to strengthen our information security systems and incident readiness programs, assessments of the information security program and our key assets, as well as the emerging threat landscape. Our security officer, who reports to our VP of Engineering, and is a member of the senior leadership team, collaborates closely with key members of management including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer, VP of Engineering, and SVP of Product to continuously monitor and evaluate our ongoing risk profile and mitigation strategies. Our security officer also provides ad hoc updates to management on cybersecurity-related news and events and discusses any updates to our cybersecurity risk management and strategy programs as a result of these matters. Our security officer collaborates closely and regularly with our external consulting firm who provides a fractional Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), which includes a cybersecurity expert with recognized expertise and many years of experience. The Companys overall risks and assessments are monitored via a cross functional team composed of members of senior management, security, legal, and financial reporting. A partnership exists between these aforementioned individuals and departments so that identified issues are addressed in a timely manner and incidents are escalated to the appropriate parties as required. Item 2. Properties. Our principal facility is our corporate headquarters, located in College Park, Maryland, where we lease approximately 32,000 square feet of space from the University of Maryland under an agreement that expires in 2030. Most of the facility is used for research and development, servicing customers, and corporate functions. We also lease approximately 101,000 square feet of space in Bothell, Washington under an agreement that expires in 2030. Most of the facility is used for manufacturing, research and development and general office space. We also signed a lease for approximately 27,000 square feet of space in Arlesheim, Switzerland under an agreement that commenced in 2024 and expires in 2029. Most of the facility will be used to service customers, in addition to general office space. We believe that our facilities are sufficient to meet our current needs and we will be able to obtain additional space as needed under commercially reasonable terms. 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings relating to claims arising from the ordinary course of business. Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves. The results of any current or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. On January 12, 2021, dMY Technology Group, Inc. II, dMY Sponsor II, LLC, dMY, and dMY Sponsor III, LLC (Sponsor) accepted service of a lawsuit where they were named as counterclaim defendants in an underlying action by and between GTY Technology Holdings, Inc. (GTY), dMY Technology Holdings Inc., dMY Sponsor, LLC, dMY Sponsor II, LLC, dMY Technology Group Inc. II, dMY and Sponsor (collectively dMY Defendants) and Carter Glatt (Glatt) and Captains Neck Holdings LLC (Captains Neck), an entity of which Mr. Glatt is a member. The underlying lawsuit, filed by dMY Technology Group, Inc. and dMY Sponsor, LLC, seeks a declaratory judgment that Glatt and Captains Neck are not entitled to membership units of dMY Sponsor LLC, which was formed by Harry L. You, the co-founder and former President and Chief Financial Officer of GTY when Glatt was still working at GTY. The underlying lawsuit contains claims arising from Glatts termination of employment from GTY, including theft and misappropriation of confidential GTY information, breach of contract, breach of the duties of loyalty and fiduciary duty and conversion. Glatt responded to the underlying lawsuit by adding members of the Sponsor and officers of dMY as additional counterclaim defendants (collectively with the dMY Defendants Glatt and Captains Neck, the Counterclaim Defendants) and adding Dune Acquisition Holdings LLC, a newly formed special purpose acquisition company, as a counterclaimant and asserting claims for breach of contract, fraudulent misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, tortious interference with business relations, quantum meruit and unjust enrichment. dMY and the Company have never employed Glatt nor maintained any business agreements with him. The Counterclaim Defendants denied the claims against them and filed a motion to dismiss the suit. During 2023, the court dismissed the claims against dMY Technology Group, Inc. III (dMY III), the former legal registrant of IonQ, Inc and the case is now considered closed. In May 2022, a securities class action complaint captioned Leacock v. IonQ, Inc. et al., Case No. 8:22-cv-01306, was filed by a stockholder of the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland (the Leacock Litigation) against the Company and certain of the Companys current officers. In June 2022, a securities class action complaint captioned Fisher v. IonQ, Inc., Case No. 8:22-cv-01306-DLB (the Fisher Litigation) was filed by a stockholder against the Company and certain of the Companys current officers (IonQ Defendants). Both the Leacock Litigation and Fisher Litigation, which have been consolidated into a single action, allege violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act and seek damages. In September 2022, the Court appointed lead plaintiffs and counsel for lead plaintiffs, and ordered lead plaintiffs to file a consolidated amended complaint. The consolidated amended complaint was filed on November 22, 2022. As part of the consolidated amended complaint, certain members of the Companys board of directors as well as other dMY-related defendants (Additional Defendants) have been added as defendants to the case. On February 7, 2023, the IonQ Defendants and the Additional Defendants each filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. On March 23, 2023, lead plaintiffs filed their omnibus opposition to the motions to dismiss. On April 26, 2023, the IonQ Defendants and the Additional Defendants each filed a reply in support of the motions to dismiss. On September 28, 2023, the District Court of Maryland issued an order dismissing plaintiffs' claims against the IonQ Defendants and the Additional Defendants with prejudice and directed the clerk to close the case. On October 26, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a motion for post-judgment relief, seeking to amend their consolidated amended complaint. The IonQ Defendants and Additional Defendants filed oppositions to plaintiffs motion on December 1, 2023, and plaintiffs filed their reply on January 8, 2024. Both the IonQ Defendants and Additional Defendants intend to defend the matters vigorously. Given the uncertainty of litigation, the preliminary stage of the case, and the legal standards that must be met for, among other things, class certification and success on the merits, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any, that may result from the associated suit. Please refer to Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further details on current legal proceedings. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 51 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock and public warrants are traded on the NYSE under the symbols IONQ and IONQ WS, respectively. Holders As of February 21, 2024, there were approximately 285 stockholders of record. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of record holders, and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of cash dividends, if any, in the future will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors our Board may deem relevant. Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Item 6. [Reserved]. 52 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Annual Report contains statements that may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements contained in this Annual Report other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, our business strategy and plans, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believes, expects, intends, estimates, projects, anticipates, will, plan, may, should, or similar language are intended to identify forward-looking statements. It is routine for our internal projections and expectations to change throughout the year, and any forward-looking statements based upon these projections or expectations may change prior to the end of the next quarter or year. Readers of this Annual Report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. As a result of a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, our actual results or performance may be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties are identified under Risk Factors in Item 1A herein and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). All forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date hereof. Unless otherwise required by law, we do not undertake, and specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise after the date of such statement. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms IonQ, Legacy IonQ we, us, our and similar terms refer to IonQ Quantum, Inc. prior to the consummation of the Business Combination and IonQ, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries after the consummation of the Business Combination. References to dMY refer to the predecessor company prior to the consummation of the Business Combination. Overview We are developing quantum computers designed to solve some of the worlds most complex problems, and transform business, society and the planet for the better. We believe that our proprietary technology, our architecture, and the technology exclusively available to us through license agreements will offer us advantages both in terms of research and development, as well as the commercial value of our intended product offerings. Today, we sell specialized quantum computing hardware together with related maintenance and support. We also sell access to several quantum computers of various qubit capacities and are in the process of researching and developing technologies for quantum computers with increasing computational capabilities. We currently make access to our quantum computers available via three major cloud platforms, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Amazon Braket, Microsofts Azure Quantum and Googles Cloud Marketplace, and also to select customers via our own cloud service. This cloud-based approach enables the broad availability of quantum-computing-as-a-service (QCaaS). We supplement our QCaaS offering with professional services focused on assisting our customers in applying quantum computing to their businesses. We also expect to sell full quantum computing systems to customers, either over the cloud or for local access. We are still in the early stages of commercial growth. Since our inception we have incurred significant operating losses. Our ability to generate revenue sufficient to achieve profitability will depend heavily on the successful development and further commercialization of our quantum computing systems. Our net losses were $157.8 million and $48.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $352.1 million. We expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future as we prioritize reaching the technical milestones necessary to achieve an increasingly higher number of stable qubits and higher levels of fidelity than presently existsprerequisites for quantum computing to reach broad quantum advantage. The Merger Agreement On March 7, 2021, Legacy IonQ, dMY and Ion Trap Acquisition Inc. (the Merger Sub) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the closing, the Merger Sub was merged with and into Legacy IonQ, with Legacy IonQ continuing as the surviving corporation following the merger, being a wholly owned subsidiary of dMY and the separate corporate existence of the Merger Sub ceased (the Business Combination). Contemporaneously with the Business Combination, dMY changed its name to IonQ, Inc. and Legacy IonQ changed its name to IonQ Quantum, Inc. IonQ became 53 the successor registrant with the SEC, meaning that Legacy IonQs financial statements for previous periods have been disclosed in the registrants periodic reports filed with the SEC. Impact of the Macroeconomic Climate on Our Business The recent trends towards rising inflation may materially adversely affect our business and corresponding financial position and cash flows. Inflationary factors, interest rates and overhead costs may adversely affect our operating results. High interest and inflation rates also present a recent challenge impacting the U.S. economy and could make it more difficult for us to obtain traditional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. Although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations to date, we may experience increases in the near future (especially if inflation rates remain high or continue to rise) on our operating costs, including our labor, due to supply chain constraints, consequences associated with bank failures, geopolitical tensions in and around Ukraine, Israel and other areas of the world, and employee availability and wage increases, which may result in additional stress on our working capital resources. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We have generated limited revenues since our inception. We derive revenue from contracts associated with the design, development, construction and sale of specialized quantum computing hardware together with related services, from contracts providing access to QCaaS, and from consulting services related to co-developing algorithms on our quantum computing systems. In arrangements with the cloud service providers, the cloud service provider is considered the customer and we do not have any contractual relationships with the cloud service providers end users. Certain of our contracts contain multiple performance obligations, most commonly in contracts for the sale of specialized quantum computing hardware together with related maintenance and support. Such contracts may also include access to our QCaaS. A contracts transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when or as the performance obligation is satisfied. When there are multiple performance obligations in a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price when available. We determine standalone selling price based on the observable price of a product or service when we sell the products or services separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. Certain products and services have limited or no history of being sold on a standalone basis, requiring us to estimate the standalone selling price. To date, we have estimated the standalone selling price based on other contracts for similar products and services adjusted for differing terms than the contract being evaluated, as well as internal pricing guidelines and market factors. In addition, we take into consideration the estimated costs to be incurred to satisfy the performance obligation plus an appropriate profit margin. In limited situations, for certain contracts executed in prior years, when the standalone selling price was not known, due to it being either highly variable or uncertain, we allocated the transaction price using the residual approach. We have determined that our QCaaS contracts represent a combined, stand-ready performance obligation to provide access to our quantum computing systems together with related maintenance and support. The transaction price generally consists of a fixed fee for a minimum volume of usage to be made available over a defined period of access. Fixed fee arrangements may also include a variable component whereby customers pay an amount for usage over contractual minimums contained in the contracts. We have determined that contracts that contain consulting services related to co-developing quantum computing algorithms and the ability to use our quantum computing systems to run such algorithms represent a combined performance obligation that is satisfied over-time. Performance obligations are satisfied over time if the customer receives the benefits as we perform the work, if the customer controls the asset as it is being produced (continuous transfer of control), or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and we have a contractual right to payment for performance to date. For performance obligations related to specialized quantum computing hardware and consulting services, revenue is recognized over time based on the efforts incurred to date relative to the total expected effort, primarily based on a cost-to-cost input measure. We apply judgment to determine a reasonable method to measure progress and to estimate total expected effort. Factors considered in these estimates include our historical performance, the availability, productivity and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of work to be performed, the effect of change orders, availability and cost of materials, and the effect of any delays in performance. For performance obligations related to providing QCaaS access, fixed fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over the access period. We are currently focused on marketing our QCaaS and consulting services and have entered into, and are continuing to enter into, new contracts with customers. We have also engaged with certain prospects who are interested in purchasing entire quantum computers, either over the cloud or for local access. 54 Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to delivering our services, including personnel-related expenses, allocated facility and other costs for customer facing functions, and costs associated with maintaining our in-service quantum computing systems to ensure proper calibration as well as costs incurred for maintaining the cloud on which the QCaaS resides. Cost of revenue also includes hardware costs for construction of specialized quantum computing hardware. Personnel-related expenses include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. Cost of revenue excludes depreciation and amortization related to our quantum computing systems and related software. Research and development Research and development expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, and allocated facility and other costs for our research and development functions. Unlike a standard computer, design and development efforts continue throughout the useful life of our quantum computing systems to ensure proper calibration and optimal functionality. Research and development expenses also include purchased hardware and software costs related to quantum computing systems constructed for research purposes that are not probable of providing future economic benefit and have no alternate future use as well as costs associated with third-party research and development arrangements. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, commissions, benefits and stock-based compensation, costs for direct advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures and allocated facility and other costs for our sales and marketing functions. We expect to continue to make the necessary sales and marketing investments to enable us to increase our market penetration and expand our customer base. General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, and allocated facility and other costs for our corporate, executive, finance, and other administrative functions. General and administrative expenses also include expenses for outside professional services, including legal, auditing and accounting services, recruitment expenses, information technology, travel expenses, certain non-income taxes, insurance, and other administrative expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we scale headcount with the growth of our business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, NYSE, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. As a result, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue over time. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense results from depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment, including our quantum computing systems, and intangible assets that are recognized over their estimated lives. Nonoperating Costs and Expenses Gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities The gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities consists of mark-to-market fair value adjustments recorded associated with the public warrants assumed as part of the Business Combination. Interest income, net Interest income, net consists of income earned on our money market funds and other available-for-sale investments. 55 Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists of gains and losses that arise from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, realized losses on our available-for-sale investments, and certain other nonoperating expenses. Income tax benefit (expense) Income tax expense consists of income taxes related to foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue $ 22,042 $ 11,131 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization)(1) 8,108 2,944 Research and development(1) 92,321 43,978 Sales and marketing(1) 18,270 8,385 General and administrative(1) 50,722 35,966 Depreciation and amortization 10,375 5,604 Total operating costs and expenses 179,796 96,877 Loss from operations (157,754 ) (85,746 ) Gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities (19,206 ) 30,136 Interest income, net 19,322 7,093 Other income (expense), net (85 ) 6 Loss before income tax expense (157,723 ) (48,511 ) Income tax benefit (expense) (48 ) Net loss $ (157,771 ) $ (48,511 ) (1) Cost of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses for the periods include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 2,819 $ 902 Research and development 40,103 13,472 Sales and marketing 6,762 1,298 General and administrative 20,059 15,784 Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Year Ended December 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 22,042 $ 11,131 $ 10,911 98 % Revenue increased by $10.9 million, or 98%, to $22.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $11.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by progress on our arrangements to build specialized quantum computing hardware, as well as new revenue contracts under which we provided services during the year ended December 31, 2023. 56 Cost of revenue Year Ended December 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) $ 8,108 $ 2,944 $ 5,164 175 % Cost of revenue increased by $5.2 million, or 175%, to $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was driven primarily by the increase in labor costs to service contracts, as well as the increase in materials costs for arrangements to build specialized quantum computing hardware, for the year ended December 31, 2023. Research and development Year Ended December 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 92,321 $ 43,978 $ 48,343 110 % Research and development expense increased by $48.3 million, or 110%, to $92.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $44.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by a $44.0 million increase in payroll-related expenses, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $27.1 million, as a result of increased headcount, and a $1.8 million increase in materials, supplies and equipment costs. Sales and marketing Year Ended December 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 18,270 $ 8,385 $ 9,885 118 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $9.9 million, or 118%, to $18.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $8.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $8.7 million of payroll-related expenses, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $5.5 million, as a result of increased headcount, and increased costs to promote our services and other marketing initiatives of approximately $1.2 million. General and administrative Year Ended December 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (in thousands) General and administrative $ 50,722 $ 35,966 $ 14,756 41 % General and administrative expenses increased by $14.8 million, or 41%, to $50.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $36.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $10.3 million in payroll-related expenses, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $6.5 million, due to increased headcount, offset by a decrease of $2.2 million in one-time stock-based compensation costs incurred in the year ended December 31, 2022. The remaining increase is primarily due to an increase of $4.9 million in professional services fees as we scale our business as a public company. Depreciation and amortization Year Ended December 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (in thousands) Depreciation and amortization $ 10,375 $ 5,604 $ 4,771 85 % 57 Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $4.8 million, or 85%, to $10.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $2.3 million and $0.9 million in depreciation expense associated with capitalized quantum computing system costs and other property and equipment, respectively, and an increase of $1.4 million due to amortization of capitalized internally developed software. Gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities Year Ended December 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (in thousands) Gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities $ (19,206 ) $ 30,136 $ (49,342 ) (164 )% The gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities decreased by $49.3 million, or 164%, to a loss of $19.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from a gain of $30.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was due to mark-to-market adjustments based on changes in the trading price for our public warrants. Interest income, net Year Ended December 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (in thousands) Interest income, net $ 19,322 $ 7,093 $ 12,229 172 % Interest income, net increased by $12.2 million, or 172%, to $19.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by interest income earned on our cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments due to higher interest rates. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2023, we had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities of $455.9 million. Excluded from our available liquidity is $2.4 million of restricted cash, which is primarily recorded in other noncurrent assets in our consolidated balance sheets. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and investments as of December 31, 2023, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities and available funds from our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. However, this determination is based upon internal projections and is subject to changes in market and business conditions. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and as of December 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $352.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we incurred net losses of $157.8 million. We expect to incur significant losses and higher operating expenses for the foreseeable future. Future Funding Requirements We expect our principal sources of liquidity will continue to be our cash, cash equivalents and investments and any additional capital we may obtain through additional equity or debt financings. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including investments in growth and technology. We may, in the future, enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, which may require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Our primary uses of cash and investments are to fund our operations as we continue to grow our business. We require a significant amount of cash for expenditures as we invest in ongoing research and development and commercialization of our products. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from commercializing our quantum computing technology, if ever, we expect to finance our liquidity needs through our cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as equity or debt financings or other capital sources, including potential collaborations and other similar arrangements. However, we may be unable to raise additional funds or enter into such other arrangements when needed on favorable terms or at all. High interest and inflation rates present a recent challenge impacting the U.S. economy and could make it more difficult for us to obtain traditional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be or could be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that 58 include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we raise funds through collaborations, or other similar arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our quantum computing technology on terms that may not be favorable to us and/or may reduce the value of our common stock. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our quantum computing development efforts. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors. Other than operating expenses and our continued investment in our quantum computers, cash requirements for fiscal year 2024 are expected to consist primarily of capital expenditures for facilities. Our material cash requirements as of December 31, 2023, include operating lease commitments, including the lease of our headquarters in College Park, Maryland and our manufacturing, research and development and general office space in Bothell, Washington. As of December 31, 2023, we have total operating lease obligations of $19.8 million, with $1.9 million payable within 12 months. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the period indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (78,811 ) $ (44,698 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 68,766 (309,056 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,761 1,096 Cash flows from operating activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by the growth of our business, primarily related to research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2023, was $78.8 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $157.8 million, adjusted for non-cash activity, primarily related to stock-based compensation, the loss recorded as a result of mark-to-market activity for our public warrants, depreciation and amortization, and other working capital activities. The increase in net cash used in operations from the prior year period was primarily related to increased research and development activities, increased compensation costs as a result of hiring personnel and increased costs incurred as a public company. Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, was $44.7 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $48.5 million, adjusted for non-cash activity, primarily related to the gain recorded as a result of mark-to-market activity for our public warrants offset by stock-based compensation and other working capital activities. Cash flows from investing activities Net cash provided by investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2023, was $68.8 million, primarily resulting from maturities of available-for-sale securities of $386.8 million, offset by purchases of available-for-sale investments of $298.4 million, additions of $13.7 million to property and equipment primarily related to the development of our quantum computing systems, and additions of $4.6 million related to capitalized software development costs. Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, was $309.1 million, primarily resulting from purchases of available-for-sale securities of $605.7 million and additions of $9.3 million to property and equipment primarily related to the development of our quantum computing systems, offset by cash received from maturities of available-for-sale investments of $310.0 million. 59 Cash flows from financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2023, was $1.8 million, primarily resulting from proceeds from stock options exercised. Net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, was $1.1 million, primarily resulting from proceeds from stock options exercised. Critical Accounting Estimates This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We also make estimates and assumptions on revenue generated and reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Our critical accounting policies are described in greater detail in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Critical accounting estimates are defined as those reflective of significant judgments, estimates and uncertainties, which may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. We have listed below our critical accounting estimates that we believe to have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Revenue recognition We derive revenue from contracts associated with the design, development, and construction of specialized quantum computing hardware together with related services, from contracts providing access to QCaaS, and from consulting services related to co-developing algorithms on the quantum computing systems. For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, judgment is applied to determine the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation as this is used to allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation within the contract. We determine standalone selling price based on the observable price of a product or service when we sell the products or services separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. Certain products and services have limited or no history of being sold on a standalone basis, requiring us to estimate the standalone selling price. To date, we have estimated the standalone selling price based on other contracts for similar products and services adjusted for differing terms than the contract being evaluated, as well as internal pricing guidelines and market factors. In addition, we take into consideration the estimated costs to be incurred to satisfy the performance obligation plus an appropriate profit margin. In limited situations, for certain contracts executed in prior years, when the standalone selling price was not known, due to it being either highly variable or uncertain, we allocated the transaction price using the residual approach. Contracts with customers are evaluated at the time of execution and may vary in terms. The amount of revenue recognized in a period may vary with respect to the allocation of arrangement consideration to performance obligations with different revenue recognition patterns and changes to existing contract terms. For certain contracts, revenue is recognized over time based on the efforts incurred to date relative to the total expected effort, primarily based on a cost-to-cost input measure. We apply judgment to determine a reasonable method to measure progress and to estimate total expected effort. Factors considered in these estimates include our historical performance, the availability, productivity and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of work to be performed, the effect of change orders, availability and cost of materials and the effect of any delays in performance. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on revenue recognition, which could result in material changes to reported revenue. Quantum computing systems Quantum computing systems are included within property and equipment, net on the consolidated balance sheets. Hardware and labor costs associated with the building of such quantum computing systems are capitalized in the period the costs are incurred. Costs to maintain quantum computing systems are expensed as incurred. 60 Judgment is used to determine when hardware and labor costs incurred for our quantum computing systems should be capitalized as a result of our assessment of whether the system will provide a probable future economic benefit and whether or not the costs represent activities necessary to build the systems, maintain the systems or to perform certain research and development functions. We also estimate the useful life of our quantum computing systems, both at the time the assets are placed in service and periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the useful life may have changed. In assessing useful lives, the Company considers, among other factors, the use of the asset, changes in technology, and the competitive environment. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of capitalized costs and depreciation expense, which could result in material changes to reported property and equipment, net. Emerging Growth Company Status and Smaller Reporting Company Status Under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act), emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act, until such time as those standards apply to private companies. As a result of the market value of the Company's common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2023, exceeding $700.0 million, we became a large accelerated filer under the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2023, and no longer qualify as an emerging growth company. Therefore, we are required to comply with new or revised accounting standards as of the effective dates applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We were also a smaller reporting company as defined in the Exchange Act until June 30, 2023. However, we may continue to use the scaled disclosures permitted for a smaller reporting company through this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 and must begin providing non-scaled larger company disclosure in our first quarterly report in our next fiscal year (i.e., the quarterly report for the three-month period ended March 31, 2024).