Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations disclosure; (3) an exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirement in the assessment of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley; (4) not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements; (5) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation arrangements in periodic reports, registration statements, and proxy statements; and 52 (6) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result, the information we provide will be different than the information that is available with respect to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be more volatile. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (1) December 31, 2025; (2) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have gross revenue exceeding $1.235 billion; (3) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three year period; and (4) the last day of the year in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th. Additionally, we qualify as a smaller reporting company as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited financial statements. We will remain a smaller reporting company until the last day of the fiscal year in which (1) the market value of common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $250 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, or (2) our annual revenues exceeded $100 million during such completed fiscal year and the market value of common stock held by non-affiliates equals or exceeds $700 million as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter. To the extent we take advantage of such reduced disclosure obligations, this may also make comparison of our financial statements with other public companies difficult or impossible. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests and may depress the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2022, we had warrants outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 13,532,688 shares of common stock. Pursuant to our employee benefit plans, we may issue an aggregate of up to 28,769,625 shares of common stock, which amount may be subject to increase from time to time. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank in the future in connection with, among other things, future acquisitions or repayment of outstanding indebtedness, without stockholder approval, in a number of circumstances. The issuance of additional shares or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: existing stockholders proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; the amount of cash available per share, including for payment of dividends, if any, may decrease; the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common stock may be diminished; and the market price of our common stock may decline. There is no guarantee that the public warrants will be in the money, and they may expire worthless. The exercise price for our public warrants is $11.50 per share of common stock. There is no guarantee that the public warrants will be in the money prior to their expiration, and as such, the public warrants may expire worthless. The public warrants expire on September 30, 2026. We may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 50% of the then-outstanding public warrants. As a result, the exercise price of your public warrants could be increased, the exercise period could be shortened and the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a public warrant could be decreased, all without your approval. Our public warrants are issued in registered form under the Warrant Agreement between the warrant agent and us. The Warrant Agreement provides that the terms of the public warrants may be amended without the 53 consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 50% of the then-outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders of public warrants. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 50% of the then-outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the public warrants with the consent of at least 50% of the then-outstanding public warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, convert the public warrants into cash or stock (at a ratio different than initially provided), shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a public warrant. We may redeem unexpired public warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to warrantholders, thereby making such warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding public warrants prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which we give proper notice of such redemption and provided certain other conditions are met. If and when the public warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding public warrants could force you (1) to exercise your public warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (2) to sell your public warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your public warrants or (3) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding public warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your public warrants. In addition, we may redeem the public warrants after they become exercisable for a number of shares of common stock determined based on the redemption date and the fair market value of our common stock. Any such redemption may have similar consequences to a cash redemption described above. In addition, such redemption may occur at a time when the public warrants are out-of-the-money, in which case, you would lose any potential embedded value from a subsequent increase in the value of our common stock had your public warrants remained outstanding. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock; as a result, stockholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than the purchase price. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board, subject to applicable laws. It will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions, general business conditions, and other factors that the Board may deem relevant. In addition, the ability to pay cash dividends may be restricted by the terms of debt financing arrangements, as any future debt financing arrangement likely will contain terms restricting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. As a result, stockholders may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless they sell their shares for a price greater than what they paid for them. Provisions in our organizational documents and certain rules imposed by regulatory authorities may delay or prevent an acquisition by a third party that could otherwise be in the interests of stockholders. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (Certificate of Incorporation) and amended and restated bylaws (Bylaws) contain several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a 54 third party to acquire control of us without the approval of the Board. These provisions, which may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest, or other transaction that stockholders may consider favorable, include the following: a classified board; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; limiting the ability of stockholders to act by written consent; restrictions on business combinations with interested stockholder; in certain cases, the approval of holders representing at least 66 2/3% of the total voting power of the shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors will be required for stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws, or amend or repeal certain provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation; no cumulative voting; the required approval of holders representing at least 66 2/3% of the total voting power of the shares entitled to vote at an election of the directors to remove directors; and the ability of the Board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used, among other things, to institute a rights plan that would have the effect of significantly diluting the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions. These provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could discourage potential takeover attempts and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. The provision of our Certificate of Incorporation requiring exclusive venue in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware and the federal district courts of the United States for certain types of lawsuits may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against directors and officers. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for: any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of us; any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer, agent or other employee or stockholder to us or our stockholders; any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL), the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; any claim or cause of action seeking to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws; or any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. It further provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for the resolutions of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. The exclusive forum clauses described above shall not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act, or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive 55 jurisdiction. Although these provisions are expected to benefit us by providing increased consistency in the application of applicable law in the types of lawsuits to which they apply, the provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies certificates of incorporation have been challenged in legal proceedings and there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce such provisions. In addition, investors cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. It is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action. If so, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. These provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could discourage lawsuits against directors and officers, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. Our principal facility is our corporate headquarters, located in College Park, Maryland, where we lease approximately 32,000 square feet of space from the University of Maryland under an agreement that expires in 2030. Most of the facility is used for research and development and corporate functions. We also signed a lease for approximately 65,000 square feet of space in Bothell, Washington under an agreement that commenced in 2023 and expires in 2030. Most of the facility will be used for manufacturing in addition to general office space. We believe that our facilities are sufficient to meet our current needs and we will be able to obtain additional space as needed under commercially reasonable terms. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings relating to claims arising from the ordinary course of business. Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves. The results of any current or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. In May 2022, a securities class action complaint captioned Leacock v. IonQ, Inc. et al. , Case No. 8:22-cv-01306, was filed by a stockholder of the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland (the Leacock Litigation) against the Company and certain of the Companys current officers. In June 2022, a securities class action complaint captioned Fisher v. IonQ, Inc. , Case No. 8:22-cv-01306-DLB (the Fisher Litigation) was filed by a stockholder of the Company and certain of the Companys current officers (IonQ Defendants). Both the Leacock Litigation and Fisher Litigation, which have been consolidated into a single action, allege violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act and seek damages. In September 2022, the Court appointed lead plaintiffs and counsel for lead plaintiffs, and ordered lead plaintiffs to file a consolidated amended complaint. The consolidated amended complaint was filed on November 22, 2022. As part of the consolidated amended complaint, certain members of the Companys Board as well as other dMY related defendants (the Additional Defendants) have been added as defendants to the case. On February 7, 2023, the IonQ Defendants and the Additional Defendants each filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. Both the IonQ Defendants and the Additional Defendant believe that the allegations in the various complaints are without merit and intend to defend the matters vigorously. On March 2, 2023, we filed a petition in the Delaware Court of Chancery pursuant to Section 205 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which permits the Court of Chancery, in its discretion, to validate potentially 56 defective corporate acts. The petition sought an order of the Chancery Court validating and declaring effective (i) our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated September 30, 2021 (the A&R COI), including its filing and effectiveness, as of the date and time that it was originally filed with the Delaware Secretary of State and (ii) all shares of our capital stock issued in reliance on the validity and effectiveness of the A&R COI as of the date and time of the original issuance of such shares. Although we believe the A&R COI and all shares issued under it were valid and effective at all relevant times, a recent decision of the Court of Chancery created uncertainty regarding the approval of the A&R COI by our stockholders in February 2021. On March 17, 2023, the Court of Chancery entered the requested order. In addition, at no point prior to March 17, 2023 had we issued or reserved for issuance shares in excess of the predecessor certificate of incorporation of the Company. Please refer to Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further details on current legal proceedings. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 57 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock and public warrants are traded on the NYSE under the symbols IONQ and IONQ WS, respectively. Holders As of March 23, 2023, there were approximately 103 stockholders of record. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of record holders, and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of cash dividends, if any, in the future will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors our Board may deem relevant. Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Item 6. [Reserved]. 58 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Annual Report contains statements that may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements contained in this Annual Report other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, our business strategy and plans, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believes, expects, intends, estimates, projects, anticipates, will, plan, may, should, or similar language are intended to identify forward-looking statements. It is routine for our internal projections and expectations to change throughout the year, and any forward-looking statements based upon these projections or expectations may change prior to the end of the next quarter or year. Readers of this Annual Report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. As a result of a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, our actual results or performance may be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties are identified under Risk Factors in Item 1A herein and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). All forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date hereof. Unless otherwise required by law, we do not undertake, and specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise after the date of such statement. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms IonQ, Legacy IonQ we, us, our and similar terms refer to IonQ Quantum, Inc. prior to the consummation of the Business Combination and IonQ, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, IonQ Quantum, Inc., after the consummation of the Business Combination. References to dMY refer to the predecessor company prior to the consummation of the Business Combination. Overview We are developing quantum computers designed to solve some of the worlds most complex problems, and transform business, society and the planet for the better. We believe that our proprietary technology, our architecture, and the technology exclusively available to us through license agreements will offer us advantages both in terms of research and development, as well as the commercial value of our intended product offerings. Today, we sell access to several quantum computers of various qubit capacities and are in the process of researching and developing technologies for quantum computers with increasing computational capabilities. We currently make access to our quantum computers available via three major cloud platforms, AWSs Amazon Braket, Microsofts Azure Quantum and Googles Cloud Marketplace, and also to select customers via our own cloud service. This cloud-based approach enables the broad availability of QCaaS. We supplement our QCaaS offering with professional services focused on assisting our customers in applying quantum computing to their businesses. We also expect to sell full quantum computing systems to customers, either over the cloud or for local access. We are still in the early stages of commercial growth. Since our inception we have incurred significant operating losses. Our ability to generate revenue sufficient to achieve profitability will depend heavily on the successful development and further commercialization of our quantum computing systems. Our net losses were $48.5 million and $106.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $194.3 million. We expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future as we prioritize reaching the technical milestones necessary to achieve an increasingly higher number of stable qubits and higher levels of fidelity than presently existsprerequisites for quantum computing to reach broad quantum advantage. 59 The Merger Agreement and Public Company Costs On March 7, 2021, Legacy IonQ, dMY and Ion Trap Acquisition Inc. (the Merger Sub) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the closing, the Merger Sub was merged with and into Legacy IonQ, with Legacy IonQ continuing as the surviving corporation following the merger, being a wholly owned subsidiary of dMY and the separate corporate existence of the Merger Sub ceased (the Business Combination). Commensurate with the Business Combination, dMY changed its name to IonQ, Inc. and Legacy IonQ changed its name to IonQ Quantum, Inc. IonQ became the successor registrant with the SEC, meaning that Legacy IonQs financial statements for previous periods will be disclosed in the registrants future periodic reports filed with the SEC. While the legal acquirer in the Merger Agreement is dMY, for financial accounting and reporting purposes under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), Legacy IonQ is the accounting acquirer and the merger is accounted for as a reverse recapitalization (i.e., a capital transaction involving the issuance of stock by dMY for the stock of Legacy IonQ). A reverse recapitalization does not result in a new basis of accounting, and the financial statements of the Company represent the continuation of the financial statements of Legacy IonQ in many respects. Under this method of accounting, dMY is treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. As a result of the Business Combination, Legacy IonQ is the successor to an SEC registrant and is listed on the NYSE, which will require IonQ to continue to hire additional personnel as it continues to implement procedures and processes to address public company regulatory requirements and customary practices. As a public company, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur, expenses for, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees and additional internal and external accounting, legal and administrative resources, including increased audit and legal fees. Impact of the Macroeconomic Climate on Our Business The recent trends towards rising inflation may also materially adversely affect our business and corresponding financial position and cash flows. Inflationary factors, interest rates and overhead costs may adversely affect our operating results. Rising interest and inflation rates also present a recent challenge impacting the U.S. economy and could make it more difficult for us to obtain traditional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. Although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations to date, we may experience increases in the near future (especially if inflation rates continue to rise) on our operating costs, including our labor, due to supply chain constraints, consequences associated with COVID-19 and the Russia-Ukraine war, and employee availability and wage increases, which may result in additional stress on our working capital resources. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We have generated limited revenues since our inception. We derive revenue from providing access to quantum-computing-as-a-service (QCaaS), consulting services related to co-developing algorithms on our quantum computing systems, and from contracts associated with the design, development, and construction of specialized quantum computing systems together with related services. In arrangements with the cloud service providers, the cloud service provider is considered the customer and we do not have any contractual relationships with the cloud service providers end users. We have determined that our QCaaS contracts represent a combined, stand-ready performance obligation to provide access to our quantum computing systems together with related maintenance and support. The transaction price generally includes a variable fee based on usage of our quantum computing systems and may include a fixed fee for a minimum volume of usage to be made available over a defined period of access. Fixed fee arrangements may also include a variable component whereby customers pay an amount for usage over contractual minimums contained in the contracts. We have determined that contracts that contain consulting 60 services related to co-developing quantum computing algorithms and the ability to use our quantum computing systems to run such algorithms represent a combined performance obligation that is satisfied over-time with revenue recognized based on the efforts incurred to date relative to the total expected effort. Certain of our contracts contain multiple performance obligations, most commonly in contracts for specialized quantum computing systems together with related maintenance and support. Such contracts may also include access to our QCaaS. A contracts transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when or as the performance obligation is satisfied. When there are multiple performance obligations in a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price when available. We determine standalone selling price based on the observable price of a product or service when we sell the products or services separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. When the standalone selling price is not known, due to it being either highly variable or uncertain, we allocate the transaction price using the residual approach. For contracts with a fixed transaction price, the fixed fee is recognized on a straight-line basis over the access period or associated measure of progress for our consulting services contracts. For contracts without fixed fees, variable usage fees are billed and recognized during the period of such usage. Performance obligations are satisfied over-time if the customer receives the benefits as we perform the work, if the customer controls the asset as it is being produced (continuous transfer of control), or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and we have a contractual right to payment for performance to date. Revenue is recognized on performance obligations satisfied over time based on the efforts incurred to date relative to the total expected effort. We are currently focused on marketing our QCaaS and consulting services and have entered into, and are continuing to enter into, new contracts with customers. We have also engaged with certain prospects who are interested in purchasing entire quantum computers, either over the cloud or for local access. Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to delivering our services, including personnel-related expenses, allocated facility and other costs for customer facing functions, and costs associated with maintaining our in-service quantum computing systems to ensure proper calibration as well as costs incurred for maintaining the cloud on which the QCaaS resides. Personnel-related expenses include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. Cost of revenue excludes depreciation and amortization related to our quantum computing systems and related software. Research and development Research and development expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, and allocated facility and other costs for our research and development functions. Unlike a standard computer, design and development efforts continue throughout the useful life of our quantum computing systems to ensure proper calibration and optimal functionality. Research and development expenses also include purchased hardware and software costs related to quantum computing systems constructed for research purposes that are not probable of providing future economic benefit and have no alternate future use as well as costs associated with third-party research and development arrangements. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, costs for direct advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures and allocated facility and other costs for our sales and marketing functions. We expect to continue to make the necessary sales and marketing investments to enable us to increase our market penetration and expand our customer base. 61 General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, and allocated facility and other costs for our corporate, executive, finance, and other administrative functions. General and administrative expenses also include expenses for outside professional services, including legal, auditing and accounting services, recruitment expenses, information technology, travel expenses and certain non-income taxes, insurance, and other administrative expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we scale headcount with the growth of our business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, NYSE, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative and professional services. As a result, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue over time. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense results from depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment, including our quantum computing systems, and intangible assets that is recognized over their estimated lives. Nonoperating Costs and Expenses Change in fair value of warrant liabilities The change in fair value of warrant liabilities consists of mark-to-market fair value adjustments recorded associated with the public and private placement warrants assumed as part of the Business Combination. Interest income, net Interest income, net consists of income earned on our money market funds and other available-for-sale investments. Offering costs associated with warrants Offering costs associated with warrants consist of transaction costs that have been allocated to the public and private warrants and were expensed upon consummation of the Business Combination on September 30, 2021, based on the relative fair value of the equity issued and the liability-classified warrants. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists of realized losses on our available-for-sale investments and certain other expenses. 62 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our statements of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Revenue $ 11,131 $ 2,099 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) (1) 2,944 1,040 Research and development (1) 43,978 20,228 Sales and marketing (1) 8,385 3,233 General and administrative (1) 35,966 13,737 Depreciation and amortization 5,604 2,548 Total operating costs and expenses 96,877 40,786 Loss from operations (85,746 ) (38,687 ) Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 30,136 (63,332 ) Interest income, net 7,093 64 Offering costs associated with warrants (4,259 ) Other income (expense), net 6 28 Loss before benefit for income taxes (48,511 ) (106,186 ) Benefit for income taxes Net loss $ (48,511 ) $ (106,186 ) (1) Cost of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses for the periods include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 902 $ 62 Research and development 13,472 2,841 Sales and marketing 1,298 67 General and administrative 15,784 4,778 Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) Revenue $ 11,131 $ 2,099 $ 9,032 430 % Revenue increased by $9.0 million, or 430%, to $11.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by new revenue contracts under which we provided services during the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase in revenue from our cloud service providers and an increase in revenue from services provided under our contract with UMD, as well as other existing contracts. 63 Cost of revenue Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) $ 2,944 $ 1,040 $ 1,904 183 % Cost of revenue increased by $1.9 million, or 183%, to $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was driven primarily by the increase in costs to service contracts for the year ended December 31, 2022, including an increase in labor costs to service consulting arrangements. Research and development Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) Research and development $ 43,978 $ 20,228 $ 23,750 117 % Research and development expense increased by $23.8 million, or 117%, to $44.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $20.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an $18.1 million increase in payroll-related expenses, including stock-based compensation of $10.6 million, as a result of increased headcount, a $2.6 million increase in materials, supplies and equipment costs, and a $2.3 million increase in professional service costs to support research and development initiatives. Sales and marketing Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 8,385 $ 3,233 $ 5,152 159 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $5.2 million, or 159%, to $8.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $3.7 million of payroll-related expenses, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $1.2 million, as a result of increased headcount, and increased costs to promote our services and other marketing initiatives of approximately $1.5 million. General and administrative Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) General and administrative $ 35,966 $ 13,737 $ 22,229 162 % General and administrative expenses increased by $22.2 million, or 162%, to $36.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $14.9 million in payroll-related expenses, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $11.0 million, due to increased headcount, and an increase of $3.4 million in director and 64 officer liability insurance costs. The remaining increase is primarily due to additional transition costs incurred to operate as a public company and other general and administrative activities as a result of hiring additional personnel. Depreciation and amortization Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) Depreciation and amortization $ 5,604 $ 2,548 $ 3,056 120 % Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $3.1 million, or 120%, to $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $0.7 million due to amortization of capitalized internally developed software and an increase of $1.3 million in depreciation expense associated with capitalized quantum computing system costs, as well as an increase of $1.0 million in depreciation expenses associated with other property and equipment. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) Change in fair value of warrant liabilities $ 30,136 $ (63,332 ) $ 93,468 148 % The change in fair value of warrant liabilities increased by $93.5 million, or 148%, to a gain of $30.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from a loss of $63.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to mark-to-market income adjustments recorded for the public and private warrants assumed as part of the Business Combination. Interest income, net Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) Interest income, net $ 7,093 $ 64 $ 7,029 NM NM-Not meaningful Interest income, net increased by $7.0 million to $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by interest income earned on our cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments from the investment of the proceeds from the Business Combination. Offering costs associated with warrants Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change 2022 2021 (in thousands) Offering costs associated with warrants $ $ (4,259 ) $ 4,259 100 % 65 Offering costs associated with warrants decreased by $4.3 million, or 100%, to zero for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. In connection with the Business Combination, $4.3 million of transaction costs were allocated and expensed related to the liability-classified public and private warrants. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2022, we had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities of $537.8 million. Excluded from our available liquidity is $2.0 million of restricted cash, which is recorded in other noncurrent assets in our consolidated balance sheets. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and investments as of December 31, 2022, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities and available funds from our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. However, this determination is based upon internal projections and is subject to changes in market and business conditions. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and as of December 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $194.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we incurred net losses of $48.5 million. We expect to incur significant losses and higher operating expenses for the foreseeable future. Future Funding Requirements We expect our principal sources of liquidity will continue to be our cash, cash equivalents and investments and any additional capital we may obtain through additional equity or debt financings. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including investments in growth and technology. We may, in the future, enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, which may require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Upon the closing of the Business Combination, we received approximately $636.0 million of gross proceeds. The proceeds are invested in money market funds, commercial paper, corporate and municipal notes and bonds, and other U.S. government and agency securities as disclosed in Note 4 in our consolidated financial statements. We expect to use these investments to fund our strategic operations. Our primary uses of cash and investments are to fund our operations as we continue to grow our business. We require a significant amount of cash for expenditures as we invest in ongoing research and development and commercialization of our products. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from commercializing our quantum computing technology, if ever, we expect to finance our liquidity needs through our cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as equity or debt financings or other capital sources, including potential collaborations and other similar arrangements. However, we may be unable to raise additional funds or enter into such other arrangements when needed on favorable terms or at all. Rising interest and inflation rates present a recent challenge impacting the U.S. economy and could make it more difficult for us to obtain traditional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be or could be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we raise funds through collaborations, or other similar arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our quantum computing technology on terms that may not be favorable to us and/or may reduce the value of our common stock. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our quantum computing development efforts. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors. Other than operating expenses and our continued investment in our quantum computers, cash requirements for fiscal year 2023 are expected to consist primarily of capital expenditures for corporate facilities. 66 Our material cash requirements as of December 31, 2022, include operating lease commitments, including the lease of our headquarters in College Park, Maryland and manufacturing and office space in Bothell, Washington. As of December 31, 2022, we have total operating lease obligations of $16.1 million, with $0.7 million payable within 12 months. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the period indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (44,698 ) $ (26,537 ) Net cash used in investing activities (309,056 ) (213,785 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,096 603,227 Cash flows from operating activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by the growth of our business, primarily related to research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities during year ended December 31, 2022, was $44.7 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $48.5 million, adjusted for non-cash activity, primarily related to the gain recorded as a result of mark-to-market activity for our public warrants offset by stock-based compensation and other working capital activities. The increase in net cash used in operations from the prior year period was primarily related to increased research and development activities, increased compensation costs as a result of hiring personnel and increased costs incurred as a public company. Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2021, was $26.5 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $106.2 million, adjusted for non-cash activity, primarily related to the loss recorded as a result of mark-to-market activity for our public and private warrants, stock-based compensation and offering costs associated with warrants, as well as other working capital activities. Cash flows from investing activities Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, was $309.1 million, primarily resulting from purchases of available-for-sale securities of $605.7 million, additions of $9.3 million to property and equipment primarily related to the development of our quantum computing systems, offset by cash received from sales and maturities of available-for-sale investments of $310.0 million. Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2021, was $213.8 million, primarily resulting from purchases of available-for-sale securities of $203.8 million, additions of $7.8 million to property and equipment primarily related to the development of our quantum computing systems, $1.6 million of capitalized internal software development costs, and $0.6 million of intangible asset acquisition costs. Cash flows from financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022, was $1.1 million, primarily resulting from proceeds from stock options exercised. 67 Net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2021, was $603.2 million primarily reflecting proceeds received from the Business Combination, including the PIPE investment, as well as cash received from the exercise of warrants and exercise of stock options. Critical Accounting Estimates This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We also make estimates and assumptions on revenue generated and reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Our critical accounting policies are described in greater detail in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Critical accounting estimates are defined as those reflective of significant judgments, estimates and uncertainties, which may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. We have listed below our critical accounting estimates that we believe to have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Revenue recognition We derive revenue from our QCaaS arrangements, consulting services related to co-developing algorithms on our quantum computing systems, and from contracts associated with the design, development, and construction of specialized quantum computing systems together with related services. We have applied judgment in determining that our QCaaS contracts represent a combined, stand-ready performance obligation to provide access to our quantum computing systems together with related maintenance and support. For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, judgment is used to determine whether multiple services in the contract should be accounted for separately or as a group. Judgment is also applied when determining the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation, including determining when to apply the residual method, as this is used to allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation within the contract. We determine standalone selling price based on the observable price of a product or service when we sell the products or services separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. When the standalone selling price is not known, due to it being either highly variable or uncertain, we allocate the transaction price using the residual approach. In addition, we apply judgment in evaluating any consideration payable to the customer and whether it is in exchange for distinct goods or services or should be reflected as a reduction of revenue. For arrangements where we enter into multiple contracts with a single counterparty at or near the same time, we use judgment in determining whether the contracts should be combined and whether we should account for them as a single contract. We account for them as a single contract when one or more of the following criteria are met: (i) the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective; (ii) consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract; and (iii) goods or services promised are a single performance obligation. Contracts with customers are evaluated at the time of execution and may vary in terms. The amount of revenue recognized in a period may vary with respect to the allocation of arrangement consideration to performance obligations with different revenue recognition patterns and changes to existing contract terms. 68 Quantum computing systems Quantum computing systems are included within property and equipment, net on the consolidated balance sheet. Prior to 2019, we built certain quantum computing systems solely for research and development purposes and these quantum computing systems were deemed to have no alternative future use. In 2019, we began to commercialize our quantum computing systems via the offering of QCaaS and quantum computing systems built thereafter were determined to provide a probable future economic benefit. As a result, hardware and labor costs associated with the building of such quantum computing systems were capitalized in the period the costs were incurred. Costs to maintain quantum computing systems are expensed as incurred. Judgment is used to determine when hardware and labor costs incurred for our quantum computing systems should be capitalized as a result of our assessment of whether the system will provide a probable future economic benefit and whether or not the costs represent activities necessary to build the systems, maintain the systems or to perform certain research and development functions. Judgment is also used to determine when the systems are placed into service and the estimated useful life of the associated systems. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of capitalized costs, which could result in material changes to reported property and equipment, net. The amount of depreciation expense associated with the quantum computing systems may also vary based on the estimated useful life. Capitalized internally developed software Capitalized internally developed software, which is included in intangible assets, net, on the consolidated balance sheet, consists of costs to purchase and develop internal-use software, which we use to provide services to our customers. Judgment is used to determine when costs to develop internal-use software for a specific project should be capitalized and whether or not the costs represent activities necessary to enhance the functionality of the software or maintain the performance of the software, and whether it is considered probable that the software will be used to perform the function intended. Judgment is also used to determine when the software is available for use as well as the estimated useful life of the software. The assumptions used to capitalize internally developed software costs consider when the preliminary project stage is completed, whether the software will perform the function intended, and whether the development activities enhance the functionality of the software or maintain the performance of the software. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of capitalized costs, which could result in material changes to reported intangible assets, net. The amortization of capitalized internally developed software may also be impacted by the estimated useful life associated with these intangible assets. Impairment of long-lived assets Long-lived assets, such as our quantum computing systems and capitalized internally developed software, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2022, we did not have an impairment of any long-lived assets. In determining whether a potential impairment exists, judgment is used in determining the level at which the assessment is made. We have determined that the company consists of one entity-wide asset group for purposes of assessing whether a triggering event has occurred that would indicate the long-lived asset groups carrying value is not recoverable. Impairment calculations, if necessary, contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate future cash flows and asset fair values. Key assumptions used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values include projected revenue growth and operating expenses, as well as forecasting asset useful lives and selecting an appropriate discount rate with respect to any terminal value cash flows. 69 Triggering events occur when there are indicators that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. These indicators may include internal and external economic factors, including significant decrease in market price of our capital stock, adverse market conditions, and an adverse change in the manner of which the asset is used. The assumptions used to assess impairment consider historical trends, macroeconomic conditions, and projections consistent with our operating strategy including the pace of technological change or specific technological challenges in building our quantum computing systems. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of fair value, which could result in material impairment losses. Emerging Growth Company Status and Smaller Reporting Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. During the extended transition period, it may be difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that complies with public company effective dates for accounting standard updates because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2025, (b) the last date of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.235 billion, (c) the last day of the fiscal year in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of the prior June 30th or (d) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the previous three-year period. We are also a smaller reporting company as defined in the Exchange Act. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company even after we are no longer an emerging growth company. We may take advantage of certain of the scaled disclosures available to smaller reporting companies and will be able to take advantage of these scaled disclosures for so long as (i) our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is less than $250.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter or (ii) our annual revenue is less than $100.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and our voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates is less than $700.0 million measured on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter.