Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains statements that may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, our business strategy and plans, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believes, expects, intends, estimates, projects, anticipates, will, plan, may, should, or similar language are intended to identify forward-looking statements. It is routine for our internal projections and expectations to change throughout the year, and any forward-looking statements based upon these projections or expectations may change prior to the end of the next quarter or year. Readers of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. As a result of a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, our actual results or performance may be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties are identified under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A herein and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). All forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date hereof. Unless otherwise required by law, we do not undertake, and specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise after the date of such statement. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 26, 2025. Overview We are developing quantum computers and networks designed to solve some of the worlds most complex problems, and transform business, society and the planet for the better. We believe that our proprietary technology, our architecture, and the technology exclusively available to us through license agreements will offer us advantages both in terms of research and development, as well as the commercial value of our intended product offerings. Today, we sell specialized quantum computing and networking hardware together with related maintenance and support. We also sell access to several quantum computers of various qubit capacities and are in the process of researching and developing technologies for quantum computers with increasing computational capabilities. We currently make access to our quantum computers available via three major cloud platforms, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Amazon Braket, Microsofts Azure Quantum and Googles Cloud Marketplace, and also to select customers via our own cloud service. This cloud-based approach enables the broad availability of quantum-computing-as-a-service (QCaaS). We supplement our offerings with professional services focused on assisting our customers in applying quantum computing and networking to their businesses. We also expect to sell full quantum computing systems to customers, either over the cloud or for local access. We also offer quantum networking products which offer customers secure communication networks and enable networked quantum computing. We are still in the early stages of commercial growth. Since our inception we have incurred significant operating losses. Our ability to generate revenue sufficient to achieve profitability will depend heavily on the successful development and further commercialization of our quantum computing systems. Our net losses were $32.3 million and $39.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. As of March 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $716.0 million. We expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future as we prioritize reaching the technical milestones necessary to achieve an increasingly higher number of stable qubits and higher levels of fidelity than presently existsprerequisites for quantum computing to reach broad quantum advantage. Business and Technical Highlights We announced the acceleration of our quantum networking and quantum computing roadmap via the intended acquisition of LightsynqTechnologies, Inc. Lightsynq's founders built the first-ever quantum repeater capable of extending the range of quantum networks, a key technology for enabling quantum devices to connect together in a future quantum internet. Lightsynqs core mission is to use this same technology to build the worlds best photonic interconnects that link quantum processors at high speed. We announced the expansion of our quantum networking business, naming Jordan Shapiro our first President and General Manager, Quantum Networking. To facilitate development of this network, we have announced the proposed acquisition of Capella, a Colorado-based signals platform leader for top-secret government and commercial applications. 25 We announced the joint development of a new quantum computing innovation center with EPB in Chattanooga, TN, housing the first quantum computing and networking hub. This deal includes the system sale of a Forte Enterprise system for $22 million for the two companies to jointly develop algorithms designed for energy grid optimization. We announced that we have been selected by DARPA for the first stage of its Quantum Benchmarking Initiative (QBI). This program is designed to assess and validate the feasibility of developing industrially useful quantum computers ahead of conventional projections. Additionally, working with the State of Maryland under its Capital of Quantum Initiative, we are progressing on our expected new headquarters on UMD's College Park campus, and are pleased to see that DARPA's Quantum Benchmarking Initiative has announced they will be a next door neighbor. We announced that we have closed our acquisition of a majority stake of Geneva-based ID Quantique, a global leader in quantum-safe networking and quantum detection systems with offices in Seoul and Boston. We announced the global availability of our Europe-based Forte Enterprise system, which can be accessed by customers through Amazon Braket, a managed quantum computing service from Amazon Web Services (AWS), as well as the IonQ Quantum Cloud. We announced a flagship distributor partnership with Toyota Tsusho Corporation to accelerate quantum computing in Japan. This milestone marks our entrance into the Japanese market reinforcing our commitment to advancing quantum computing opportunities globally. We announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the Global Research and Development Center for Business by Quantum-AI Technology (G-QuAT), a division of one of the largest public research organizations in Japan, the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST). This memorandum facilitates cooperation between us and G-QuAT intended to advance quantum computing technologies in Japan. We announced a Memorandum of Understanding with Intellian Technologies, Inc., a leading global provider of satellite communication antennas and ground gateway solutions, to explore how secure quantum networking can transform satellite communications. We participated in NVIDIAs first-ever Quantum Day, taking place at GTC, where we shared details of several recent real-world demonstrations of quantum-accelerated computation for commercially-relevant applications. This included a ground-breaking milestone with Ansys, simulating the performance of a blood pump using quantum-processed data and achieving results up to 12% faster than classical computing alone. We announced new research advancements in applying quantum computing to artificial intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning, marking significant progress in hybrid quantum-classical approaches that enhance both large language models (LLMs) and generative AI. We announced the commissioning of a ground-breaking quantum system optimized for research and development to the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) in Rome, New York. We announced the completion of our next-generation ion trap vacuum package prototype intended to realize smaller, more compact, room temperature quantum systems. We have completed a state-of-the-art assembly chamber capable of manufacturing miniaturized ion trap vacuum packages that can sustain Extreme High Vacuum (XHV) levels that are comparable to the vacuum levels found on the surface of the Moon. We announced strong momentum toward our technological roadmap with a portfolio of more than 950 owned and controlled patents and patents pending with the inclusion of ID Quantique and the pending acquisition of Lightsynq. We announced a significant milestone in the development of high-speed, mixed-species quantum logic gates for trapped-ion quantum computing and networking. The findings further our momentum in driving scalable, high-fidelity quantum networking and distributed quantum computing. The research shows a novel approach to achieving an orders-of-magnitude increase in physical gate speed of two-qubit gates between different atomic species. We published new ground breaking Quantum Error Correction (QEC) research, releasing new QEC codes optimized for our trapped-ion long-chain architecture and showed they outperform the state-of-the-art. The Merger Agreement On March 7, 2021, Legacy IonQ, dMY and Ion Trap Acquisition Inc. (the Merger Sub) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the closing, the Merger Sub was merged with and into Legacy IonQ, with Legacy IonQ continuing as the surviving corporation following the merger, being a wholly owned subsidiary of dMY and the separate corporate existence of the Merger Sub ceased (the Business Combination). Contemporaneously with the Business Combination, dMY changed its name 26 to IonQ, Inc. and Legacy IonQ changed its name to IonQ Quantum, Inc. IonQ became the successor registrant with the SEC, meaning that Legacy IonQs financial statements for previous periods have been disclosed in the registrants periodic reports filed with the SEC. Impact of the Macroeconomic Climate on Our Business Inflationary factors, interest rates and overhead costs may adversely affect our operating results. High interest and inflation rates also present a recent challenge impacting the U.S. economy and could make it more difficult for us to obtain traditional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. These inflationary effects may be exacerbated by recent increases in U.S. tariffs. Although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations to date, we may experience increases in the future on our operating costs, including due to supply chain constraints, consequences associated with bank failures, trade wars and the effect of recently heightened, scheduled, and threatened tariffs by the U.S. or its trading partners, geopolitical tensions in and around Ukraine, Israel and other areas of the world, and employee availability and wage increases, which may result in additional stress on our working capital resources. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue from contracts associated with the design, development, construction and sale of specialized quantum computing hardware together with related maintenance and support, from contracts providing access to QCaaS, and from consulting services related to co-developing algorithms on quantum computing systems. In arrangements with the cloud service providers, the cloud service provider is considered the customer and we do not have any contractual relationships with the cloud service providers end users. Certain of our contracts contain multiple performance obligations, most commonly in contracts for the sale of specialized quantum computing hardware together with related maintenance and support. Such contracts may also include access to our QCaaS. A contracts transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when or as the performance obligation is satisfied. When there are multiple performance obligations in a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price when available. We determine standalone selling price based on the observable price of a product or service when we sell the products or services separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. Certain products and services have limited or no history of being sold on a standalone basis, requiring us to estimate the standalone selling price. We estimate the standalone selling price based on other contracts for similar products and services adjusted for differing terms than the contract being evaluated, as well as internal pricing guidelines and market factors. In addition, we take into consideration the estimated costs to be incurred to satisfy the performance obligation plus an appropriate profit margin. Performance obligations are satisfied over time if the customer receives the benefits as we perform the work, if the customer controls the asset as it is being produced (continuous transfer of control), or if the product being produced for the customer has no alternative use and we have a contractual right to payment for performance to date. For performance obligations related to specialized quantum computing hardware and consulting services, revenue is recognized over time based on the efforts incurred to date relative to the total expected effort, primarily based on a cost-to-cost input measure. We apply judgment to determine a reasonable method to measure progress and to estimate total expected effort. Factors considered in these estimates include our historical performance, the availability, productivity and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of work to be performed, the effect of change orders, availability and cost of materials, and the effect of any delays in performance. We have determined that our QCaaS contracts represent a combined, stand-ready performance obligation to provide access to our quantum computing systems together with related maintenance and support. The transaction price generally consists of a fixed fee for a minimum volume of usage to be made available over a defined period of access. Fixed fee arrangements may also include a variable component whereby customers pay an amount for usage over contractual minimums contained in the contracts. For performance obligations related to providing QCaaS access, fixed fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over the access period. Variable usage fees are recognized in the period they occur. We have determined that contracts that contain consulting services related to co-developing quantum computing algorithms and the ability to use our quantum computing systems to run such algorithms represent a combined performance obligation that is satisfied over-time. Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to construction of specialized quantum computing hardware and delivery of our services, including personnel-related expenses, hardware costs, allocated overhead costs for customer facing functions, and costs associated with maintaining our in-service quantum computing systems to ensure proper calibration as well as costs incurred for maintaining the cloud on which the QCaaS resides. Personnel-related expenses include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. Cost of revenue excludes depreciation and amortization related to our quantum computing systems and related software. 27 Research and development Research and development expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, and allocated overhead costs for our research and development functions. Unlike a standard computer, design and development efforts continue throughout the useful life of our quantum computing systems to ensure proper calibration and optimal functionality. Research and development expenses also include purchased hardware and software costs related to quantum computing systems constructed for research purposes that are not probable of providing a future economic benefit and have no alternate future use as well as costs associated with third-party research and development arrangements. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, commissions, benefits and stock-based compensation, costs for direct advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures and allocated overhead costs for our sales and marketing functions. We expect to continue to make the necessary sales and marketing investments to enable us to increase our market penetration and expand our customer base. General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, and allocated overhead costs for our corporate, executive, finance, and other administrative functions. General and administrative expenses also include expenses for outside professional services, including legal, auditing and accounting services, recruitment expenses, information technology, travel expenses, certain non-income taxes, insurance, and other administrative expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we scale our support functions with the growth of our business. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense results from depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment, including our quantum computing systems, and intangible assets that are recognized over their estimated lives. Nonoperating Costs and Expenses Gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities The gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities consists of mark-to-market fair value adjustments recorded associated with the public warrants assumed as part of the Business Combination. Interest income, net Interest income, net consists of income earned on our money market funds and other available-for-sale investments. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists of gains and losses that arise from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and certain other nonoperating expenses. Income tax benefit (expense) Income tax expense consists of income taxes related to foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. 28 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 7,566 $ 7,582 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization)(1) 4,315 3,414 Research and development(1) 39,953 32,368 Sales and marketing(1) 8,610 6,701 General and administrative(1) 23,806 14,020 Depreciation and amortization 6,561 3,955 Total operating costs and expenses 83,245 60,458 Loss from operations (75,679 ) (52,876 ) Gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities 38,494 8,627 Interest income, net 4,894 4,799 Other income (expense), net 51 (134 ) Loss before income tax expense (32,240 ) (39,584 ) Income tax benefit (expense) (12 ) (8 ) Net loss $ (32,252 ) $ (39,592 ) (1) Cost of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses for the periods include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,063 $ 1,005 Research and development 17,392 12,366 Sales and marketing 4,356 2,775 General and administrative 10,442 5,915 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2025 2024 Change Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 7,566 $ 7,582 $ (16 ) % Revenue was relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from the three months ended March 31, 2024. Increases in revenue from services on new and existing platform, consulting and support services arrangements were offset by decreases in revenue from arrangements to build specialized quantum computing hardware. 29 Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2025 2024 Change Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) $ 4,315 $ 3,414 $ 901 26 % Cost of revenue increased by $0.9 million, or 26%, to $4.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was driven primarily by an increase in labor costs to service contracts for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Research and development Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2025 2024 Change Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 39,953 $ 32,368 $ 7,585 23 % Research and development expense increased by $7.6 million, or 23%, to $40.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $32.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $10.1 million in payroll-related expenses, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $5.0 million, as a result of increased headcount and new equity grants, offset by a decrease of $3.0 million in materials, supplies and equipment costs. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2025 2024 Change Change (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 8,610 $ 6,701 $ 1,909 28 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $1.9 million, or 28%, to $8.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $6.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $2.2 million of payroll-related expenses, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $1.6 million, as a result of increased headcount and new equity grants, offset by a decrease of $0.3 million in professional service fees. General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2025 2024 Change Change (in thousands) General and administrative $ 23,806 $ 14,020 $ 9,786 70 % General and administrative expenses increased by $9.8 million, or 70%, to $23.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $14.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $7.2 million of payroll-related expenses, including an increase in stock-based compensation of $4.5 million, as well as an increase of $2.5 million in professional service fees and allocated overhead costs. 30 Depreciation and amortization Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2025 2024 Change Change (in thousands) Depreciation and amortization $ 6,561 $ 3,955 $ 2,606 66 % Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $2.6 million, or 66%, to $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $1.0 million and $0.7 million in depreciation expense associated with capitalized quantum computing system costs and other property and equipment, respectively, and an increase of $0.9 million due to amortization of capitalized internal-use software and acquired intangible assets. Gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2025 2024 Change Change (in thousands) Gain (loss) on change in fair value of warrant liabilities $ 38,494 $ 8,627 $ 29,867 346 % The change in fair value of warrant liabilities increased by $29.9 million, or 346%, to a gain of $38.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from a gain of $8.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was due to mark-to-market adjustments based on changes in the trading price for our public warrants. Interest income, net Three Months Ended March 31, $ % 2025 2024 Change Change (in thousands) Interest income, net $ 4,894 $ 4,799 $ 95 2 % Interest income, net increased by $0.1 million, or 2%, to $4.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, from $4.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in the available-for-sale investments balance. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2025, we had cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities of $697.1 million. Excluded from our available liquidity is $2.7 million of restricted cash, which is primarily recorded in other noncurrent assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and investments as of March 31, 2025, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next 12 months. We believe we will meet longer term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities and available funds from our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. However, this determination is based upon internal projections and is subject to changes in market and business conditions. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and as of March 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $716.0 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we incurred net losses of $32.3 million. We expect to incur significant losses and higher operating expenses for the foreseeable future. Future Funding Requirements We expect our principal sources of liquidity will continue to be our cash, cash equivalents and investments and any additional capital we may obtain through additional equity or debt financings. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including investments in growth and technology. We may, in the future, enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, which may require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Our primary uses of cash and investments are to fund our operations as we continue to grow our business and our investing activities, including capital expenditures and potential acquisitions. We require a significant amount of cash for expenditures as we invest in ongoing research and development and commercialization of our products. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from commercializing our quantum computing technology, if ever, we expect to finance our liquidity needs through our cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as equity or debt financings or other capital sources, including potential collaborations and other similar arrangements. However, we may be 31 unable to raise additional funds or enter into such other arrangements when needed on favorable terms or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be or could be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we raise funds through collaborations, or other similar arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our quantum computing and networking technology on terms that may not be favorable to us and/or may reduce the value of our common stock. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our quantum computing and networking development efforts. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors. Our material contractual commitments as of March 31, 2025, primarily relate to operating lease commitments. As of March 31, 2025, we have total operating lease obligations of $21.2 million, with $3.9 million payable within 12 months. Other than operating lease commitments, cash requirements for the next 12 months are expected to consist primarily of operating expenses and continued investment in our quantum computers. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the period indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (33,025 ) $ (20,465 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (230,176 ) 43,529 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 368,734 1,359 Cash flows from operating activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by the growth of our business, primarily related to research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025, was $33.0 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $32.3 million, adjusted for non-cash activity, primarily related to stock-based compensation, the gain recorded as a result of mark-to-market activity for our public warrants, depreciation and amortization, and other working capital activities. The increase in net cash used in operations from the prior year period was primarily related to increased compensation costs and costs for materials and supplies to support the production of quantum computing systems, customer contracts, and other research and development activities. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024, was $20.5 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $39.6 million, adjusted for non-cash activity, primarily related to the gain recorded as a result of mark-to-market activity for our public warrants, stock-based compensation and other working capital activities. Cash flows from investing activities Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025, was $230.2 million, primarily resulting from purchases of available-for-sale securities of $320.6 million and additions of $2.3 million to property and equipment primarily related to the development of our quantum computing systems and other supporting equipment, offset by cash received from maturities of available-for-sale securities of $93.8 million. Net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024, was $43.5 million, primarily resulting from cash received from maturities of available-for-sale securities of $115.0 million, offset by purchases of available-for-sale securities of $66.6 million, additions of $3.1 million to property and equipment primarily related to leasehold improvements and the development of our quantum computing systems, and additions of $1.4 million related to capitalized software development costs. 32 Cash flows from financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025, was $368.7 million, primarily resulting from proceeds from the 2025 ATM Offering Program and warrants exercised. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024, was $1.4 million, primarily resulting from tax withholding receipts related to restricted stock units and proceeds from stock options exercised. Critical Accounting Estimates This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We also make estimates and assumptions on revenue generated and reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates from those described under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical accounting estimates are defined as those reflective of significant judgments, estimates and uncertainties, which may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Within our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have disclosed our critical accounting estimates that we believe to have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting estimates have not differed materially from actual results. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Standards See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.