Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 (our 2017 10-K). In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that are not historical facts but reflect, among other things, our current expectations and anticipated results of operations, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, market trends, or industry results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Therefore, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements and should be evaluated as such. Without limiting the foregoing, the words anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, projects, should, targets, will and the negative thereof and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking information to reflect actual results or changes in our outlook or the factors affecting such forward-looking information. We caution you that any such forward-looking statements are further qualified by important factors that could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including without limitation, that most of our contracts may be terminated on short notice, and we may be unable to maintain large customers contracts or to enter into new contracts; our financial results may be adversely affected if we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documenting change orders; the historical indications of the relationship of our backlog to revenues may not be indicative of their future relationship; we may be unable to maintain our information systems or effectively update or protect them; customer or therapeutic concentration could harm our business; our business is subject to risks associated with international operations, including economic, political and other risks, such as compliance with a myriad of laws and regulations, complications from conducting clinical trials in multiple countries simultaneously and changes in exchange rates; the market for our services may not grow as we expect; government regulators or our customers may limit the scope of prescription or withdraw products from the market, and government regulators may impose new regulatory requirements or may adopt new regulations affecting the biopharmaceutical industry; we may be unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets; our failure to perform services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations may subject us to significant costs or liability, which could also damage our reputation and cause us to lose existing business or not receive new business; our services are related to treatment of human patients, and we could face liability if a patient is harmed; we may be unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate businesses, services and technologies; our investments in our customers businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance; we face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations; our restructuring plans may not result in the annualized cost savings we expect; and we have substantial indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition. For a further discussion of the risks relating to our business, see Part IItem 1ARisk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, as updated in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview IQVIA Holdings Inc. (IQVIA, the Company, we, our and/or us) is a leading global provider of advanced analytics, technology solutions, and contract research services to the life sciences industry. We apply human data science leveraging the analytic rigor and clarity of data science to the ever-expanding scope of human science to enable companies to reimagine and develop new approaches to clinical development and commercialization, speed innovation, and accelerate improvements in healthcare outcomes. Powered by the IQVIA CORE, we deliver unique and actionable insights at the intersection of large-scale analytics, transformative technology and extensive domain expertise, as well as execution capabilities. With more than 55,000 employees, we conduct operations in more than 100 countries. We manage our business through three reportable segments, Commercial Solutions, Research & Development Solutions and Integrated Engagement Services. Commercial Solutions provides critical information, technology solutions and real-world insights and services to our life science customers. Research & Development Solutions, which primarily serves biopharmaceutical customers, is engaged in research and development and provides clinical research and clinical trial services. Integrated Engagement Services provides contract sales to both biopharmaceutical customers and the broader healthcare market. 24 E ffective January 1, 2018, we adopted the re quirements of Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09) using the full retrospective method and ASU 2017-07, CompensationRetirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of N et Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost (ASU 2017-07). As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and ASU 2017-07 , the Company retrospectively adjusted related presentation s in its condensed consolidated financial statements, and amounts and disclosures set forth in this Form 10-Q reflect these change s . See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies within Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for more information about these changes . Sources of Revenue Total revenues are comprised of revenues from the provision of our services. We do not have any material product revenues. Costs and Expenses Our costs and expenses are comprised primarily of our costs of revenue, which includes reimbursed expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. Costs of revenue include compensation and benefits for billable employees and personnel involved in production, data management and delivery, and the costs of acquiring and processing data for our information offerings; costs of staff directly involved with delivering technology-related services offerings and engagements, related accommodations and the costs of data purchased specifically for technology services engagements; costs related to facilities; costs related to training and expenses for information technology (IT), reimbursed expenses that are comprised principally of payments to investigators who oversee clinical trials and travel expenses for our clinical monitors and sales representatives; and other expenses directly related to service contracts such as courier fees, laboratory supplies, professional services and travel expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses include costs related to sales, marketing, and administrative functions (including human resources, legal, finance and general management) for compensation and benefits, travel, professional services, facilities and training and expenses for IT. Foreign Currency Translation In the first three months of 2018, approximately 35% of our revenues were denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar , which represents approximately 55 currencies . Because a large portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and our financial statements are reported in United States dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our results of operations. The revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into United States dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into United States dollars for purposes of reporting our condensed consolidated results. As a result, we believe that reporting results of operations that exclude the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations on certain financial results can facilitate analysis of period-to-period comparisons. This constant currency information assumes the same foreign currency exchange rates that were in effect for the comparable prior-year period were used in translation of the current period results. Consolidated Results of Operations For information regarding our results of operations for Commercial Solutions, Research & Development Solutions and Integrated Engagement Services, refer to Segment Results of Operations later in this section. Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in millions) 2018 2017 $ % Revenues $ 2,563 $ 2,360 $ 203 8.6 % For the first quarter of 2018, our revenues increased $203 million, or 8.6%, as compared to the same period in 2017. This increase was comprised of constant currency revenue growth of approximately $123 million, or 5.2%, and a positive impact of approximately $80 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency revenue growth was comprised of an $80 million increase in Commercial Solutions and a $73 million increase in Research & Development Solutions offset by a $30 million decrease in Integrated Engagement Services. 25 Costs of Revenue, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Costs of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 1,652 $ 1,526 % of revenues 64.5 % 64.7 % The $126 million increase in costs of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, included a constant currency increase of approximately $68 million, or 4.5%, and a negative impact of approximately $58 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency increase consisted of a $55 million increase in Commercial Solutions and a $35 million increase in Research and Development Solutions offset by a $22 million decrease in Integrated Engagement Services. As a percentage of revenues, costs of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were 64.5%, consistent with the percentage for the same period in 2017. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 420 $ 381 % of revenues 16.4 % 16.1 % The $39 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, included a constant currency increase of approximately $20 million, or 5.2% and a negative impact of approximately $19 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency growth primarily consisted of a $15 million increase in Research and Development Solutions and a $10 million increase in Commercial Solutions offset by decreases of $3 million in general corporate and unallocated expenses and $2 million in Integrated Engagement Services. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Depreciation and amortization $ 282 $ 232 % of revenues 11.0 % 9.8 % The $50 million increase in depreciation and amortization in the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, is due to higher intangible asset balances as a result of foreign currency fluctuations and acquisitions occurring in 2017 and 2018. Restructuring Costs Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Restructuring costs $ 26 $ 19 During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we recognized $26 million and $19 million of restructuring charges, net of reversals, for changes in estimates under our existing restructuring plans. The remaining actions under these plans are expected to occur throughout 2018 and into 2019 and are expected to consist of severance, facility closure and other exit-related costs . 26 Interest Income and Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Interest income $ (2 ) $ (2 ) Interest expense $ 96 $ 75 Interest income includes interest received primarily from bank balances and investments. Interest expense during the first quarter of 2018 was higher than the same period in 2017 due to an increase in the average debt outstanding, primarily as a result of the February 2017 issuance of 1,425 million (approximately $1,522 million) of 3.25% senior notes, the September 2017 issuance of 420 million (approximately $501 million) of 2.875% senior notes and the incremental term B loan of $750 million. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Loss on extinguishment of debt $ $ 3 During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we recognized a $3 million loss on extinguishment of debt for fees and expenses incurred related to the refinancing of our senior secured credit facilities. Other Expense (Income), Net Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Other expense (income), net $ 4 $ (1 ) Other expense (income), net for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased by $5 million, as compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily as a result of higher foreign currency losses and gains of $2 million on investments in mutual funds recognized in the first quarter of 2017 that did not reoccur in 2018. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Income tax expense $ 19 $ 24 The effective income tax rate was 22.4% and 18.9% during the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively. In the first quarter of 2018, our effective income tax rate was favorably impacted by the reduction in the United States (U.S.) statutory tax rate to 21% as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in 2017 (the Tax Act). This favorability was partially offset by an increased U.S. tax base as a result of the Tax Act. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our effective income tax rate was also favorably impacted by a tax benefit of $47 million and $64 million, respectively, related to purchase accounting amortization of approximately $207 million and $182 million, respectively, as a result of the merger between Quintiles Transnational Holdings Inc. (Quintiles) and IMS Health Holdings, Inc. (IMS Health) . The favorable impact related to purchase accounting in 2018 was substantially less than 2017 due to the reduction in the U.S. statutory tax rate to 21% in 2018. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates $ 7 $ (1 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates primarily included earnings (losses) from our investment in NovaQuest Pharma Opportunities Fund III, L.P. 27 Net Income Attributable to Non-controlling Interests Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests $ (4 ) $ (2 ) Net income attributable to non-controlling interests primarily included Quest Diagnostics Incorporateds interest in Q 2 Solutions. Segment Results of Operations The Companys revenues and profit by segment are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Segment Revenues Segment Profit (in millions) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Commercial Solutions $ 985 $ 863 $ 253 $ 232 Research & Development Solutions 1,365 1,263 286 264 Integrated Engagement Services 213 234 13 19 Total 2,563 2,360 552 515 General corporate and unallocated (61 ) (62 ) Depreciation and amortization (282 ) (232 ) Restructuring costs (26 ) (19 ) Consolidated $ 2,563 $ 2,360 $ 183 $ 202 Certain costs are not allocated to our segments and are reported as general corporate and unallocated expenses. These costs primarily consist of stock-based compensation and expenses for corporate overhead functions such as senior leadership, finance, human resources, information technology, facilities and legal. We do not allocate depreciation and amortization or restructuring costs to our segments. Commercial Solutions Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in millions) 2018 2017 $ % Revenues $ 985 $ 863 $ 122 14.1 % Costs of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 547 467 80 17.1 Selling, general and administrative 185 164 21 12.8 Segment profit $ 253 $ 232 $ 21 9.1 % Revenues Commercial Solutions revenues were $985 million for the first quarter of 2018, an increase of $122 million over the same period in 2017. This increase was comprised of constant currency revenue growth of approximately $80 million, or 9.3%, and a positive impact of approximately $42 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency increase resulted primarily from revenue growth in the Americas region as well as the Europe and Africa region. The revenue growth in these regions resulted from growth across technology solutions, information offerings and real world analytical services as well as acquisitions that closed during 2017. Costs of Revenue, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Commercial Solutions costs of revenue increased $80 million in the first quarter of 2018 over the same period in 2017. This increase included constant currency growth of approximately $55 million, or 11.8%, and a negative impact of approximately $25 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation and related expenses to support revenue growth and incremental costs from acquisitions that closed during 2017. 28 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Commercial Solutions selling, general and administrative expenses increased $21 million, or 12.8%, in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, which includes a constant currency increase of approximately $10 million, or 6.1%, and a negative impact of approximately $11 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency increase was primarily related to an increase in compensation and related expenses from an increase in headcount to support revenue growth and incremental costs from acquisitions that closed during 2017. Research & Development Solutions Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in millions) 2018 2017 $ % Revenues $ 1,365 $ 1,263 $ 102 8.1 % Costs of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 923 863 60 7.0 Selling, general and administrative expenses 156 136 20 14.7 Segment profit $ 286 $ 264 $ 22 8.3 % Backlog Research and Development Solutions contracted backlog was $15.16 billion at March 31, 2018, including reimbursed expenses, and we expect approximately $4.6 billion of this backlog to convert to revenue in the next 12 months. Contracted backlog was $14.84 billion at December 31, 2017, including reimbursed expenses. Revenues Research & Development Solutions revenues were $1,365 million in the first quarter of 2018, an increase of $102 million, or 8.1%, over the same period in 2017. This increase was comprised of constant currency revenue growth of approximately $73 million, or 5.8%, and a positive impact of approximately $29 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency revenue growth primarily included volume-related increases in Asia-Pacific as well as acquisitions that closed during 2017. Costs of Revenue, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Research & Development Solutions costs of revenue increased $60 million, or 7.0%, in the first quarter of 2018 over the same period in 2017. This increase included constant currency growth of approximately $35 million, or 4.1% and a negative impact of approximately $25 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency costs of revenue increase was primarily due to an increase in compensation and related expenses as a result of increased headcount to support revenue growth and our next generation of clinical development capabilities, which include data-driven methods and technology to optimize trial design, as well as incremental costs from acquisitions that closed during 2017. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Research & Development Solutions selling, general and administrative expenses increased $20 million, or 14.7%, in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, which includes a constant currency increase of approximately $15 million, or 11.0%, and a negative impact of approximately $5 million from the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency increase was primarily related to an increase in compensation and related expenses from an increase in headcount to support revenue growth and our next generation of clinical development capabilities, as well as incremental costs of acquisitions that closed during 2017. 29 Integrated Engagement Services Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in millions) 2018 2017 $ % Revenues $ 213 $ 234 $ (21 ) (9.0 )% Costs of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 182 196 (14 ) (7.1 ) Selling, general and administrative expenses 18 19 (1 ) (5.3 ) Segment profit $ 13 $ 19 $ (6 ) (31.6 )% Revenues Integrated Engagement Services revenues were $213 million in the first quarter of 2018, a decrease of $21 million, or 9.0%, over the same period in 2017. This decrease included a constant currency revenue decrease of approximately $30 million, or 12.8%, partially offset by approximately $9 million from the positive effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The decline in revenue was largely due to cancellations in the Americas region. Costs of Revenue, exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Integrated Engagement Services costs of revenue decreased $14 million, or 7.1%, in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the first quarter of 2017. This decrease included a constant currency decrease of approximately $22 million, or 11.2%, partially offset by approximately $8 million from the negative effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The constant currency costs decline was due to a decrease in compensation and related expenses resulting from a decrease in billable headcount. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Integrated Engagement Services selling, general and administrative expenses remained relatively flat in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. Our principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows. In addition to operating cash flows, other significant factors that affect our overall management of liquidity include: capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements, dividends, equity repurchases, adequacy of our revolving credit and receivables financing facilities and access to the capital markets. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by monitoring the funds available among our subsidiaries and determining the extent to which those funds can be accessed on a cost-effective basis. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. We have and expect to transfer cash from those subsidiaries to the United States and to other international subsidiaries when it is cost effective to do so. We had a cash balance of $960 million at March 31, 2018 ($255 million of which was in the United States), an increase from $959 million at December 31, 2017. Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our available cash and cash equivalents, future cash flows from operations and our ability to access funds under our revolving credit and receivables financing facilities will enable us to fund our operating requirements and capital expenditures and meet debt obligations for at least the next 12 months. We regularly evaluate our debt arrangements, as well as market conditions, and from time to time we may explore opportunities to modify our existing debt arrangements or pursue additional financing arrangements that could result in the issuance of new debt securities by us or our affiliates. We may use our existing cash, cash generated from operations or dispositions of assets or businesses and/or proceeds from any new financing arrangements or issuances of debt or equity securities to repay or reduce some of our outstanding obligations, to repurchase shares from our stockholders or for other purposes. As part of our ongoing business strategy, we also continually evaluate new acquisition, expansion and investment possibilities or other strategic growth opportunities, as well as potential dispositions of assets or businesses, as appropriate, including dispositions that may cause us to recognize a loss on certain assets. Should we elect to pursue any such transaction, we may seek to obtain debt or equity financing to facilitate those activities. Our ability to enter into any such potential transactions and our use of cash or proceeds is limited to varying degrees by the terms and restrictions contained in our existing debt arrangements. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to complete any such financing arrangements or other transactions on favorable terms or at all. Equity Repurchase Program During the first quarter of 2018, we repurchased 874,627 shares of our common stock for approximately $86 million. As of March 31, 2018, we have remaining authorization to repurchase up to $1.6 billion of our common stock under the Repurchase Program. In addition, from time to time, we have repurchased and may continue to repurchase common stock through private or other transactions outside of the Repurchase Program. See Note 10 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional details regarding our repurchase program. Debt As of March 31, 2018, we had $10.5 billion of total indebtedness, excluding $0.4 billion of additional available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. On April 6, 2018, we amended our credit agreement to increase our revolving credit facility borrowing capacity to $1.5 billion. See Note 9 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information regarding this amendment. Our long-term debt arrangements contain usual and customary restrictive covenants and, as of March 31, 2018, we believe we were in compliance with our restrictive covenants in all material respects. 31 Three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 182 $ 56 Cash provided by operating activities increased $126 million during the first three months of 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017. The increase in cash provided by operating activities includes higher receipts associated with loyalty card programs we administer on behalf of our clients, higher cash-related net income and normal fluctuations in accounts payable, partially offset by slower cash collections from customers. Cash collections from customers can vary significantly each reporting period depending on the timing of cash receipts under contractual payment terms relative to the recognition of revenue over a project lifecycle and the timing of renewals. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Net cash used in investing activities $ (120 ) $ (240 ) Cash used in investing activities decreased $120 million during the first three months of 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017. The decrease is primarily related to lower cash used for the acquisition of businesses in the 2018 period. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 Net cash used in financing activities $ (41 ) $ (176 ) Cash used in financing activities decreased $135 million during the first three months of 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily related to a decline in cash used to repurchase common stock ($1,221 million), partially offset by less cash from debt issuances, net of repayments ($1,035 million), $40 million of higher payments related to employee stock purchase and option plans and $14 million from contingent consideration and deferred purchase price payments. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have various contractual obligations, which are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as operating lease obligations, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed. There have been no material changes, outside of the ordinary course of business, to our contractual obligations as previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Application of Critical Accounting Policies With the exception of the changes to our accounting for revenue from contracts with customers below and the presentation of the other components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost disclosed in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. 32 Revenue Recognition The Companys arrangements are primarily service contracts that range in duration from a few months to several years. In some cases, contracts provide for variable consideration that is contingent upon the occurrence of uncertain future events, such as performance incentives (including royalty payments or penalty clauses that can either increase or decrease the transaction price). We estimate the amount of variable consideration at the expected value or at the most likely amount depending on the type of consideration. Estimated amounts are included in the transaction price to the extent it is probable based on available information (historical, current and forecasted). Cash payments made to customers as incentives to induce the customers to enter into service agreements with us are amortized as a reduction of revenue over the period the services are performed. We record revenues net of any tax assessments by governmental authorities, such as value added taxes, that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue generating transactions. We derive the majority of our revenues in the Commercial Solutions segment from various information and technology services offerings. Technology services offerings may contain multiple performance obligations consisting of a mix of small and large-scale services and consulting projects, multi-year outsourcing contracts and Software-as-a-Service ( SaaS) arrangements . These arrangements typically have terms ranging from several weeks to three years, with a majority having terms of one year or less. For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to the identified performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling prices. For these contracts, the standalone selling prices are based on our normal pricing practices when sold separately with consideration of market conditions and other factors, including customer demographics and geographic location. The majority of revenue in our Research & Development Solutions segment is recognized over time using a cost-based input method since there is no single output measure that would fairly depict the transfer of control over the life of the performance obligation. Progress on the performance obligation is measured by the proportion of actual costs incurred to the total costs expected to complete the contract. Costs included in the measure of progress include direct labor and third-party costs (such as payments to investigators and travel expenses for the Companys clinical monitors). This cost-based method of revenue recognition requires us to make estimates of costs to complete our projects on an ongoing basis. Significant judgment is required to evaluate assumptions related to these estimates. These significant estimates of project costs are updated and adjusted on a regular basis. These updates and adjustments are likely to result in variability in our revenue recognition from period to period that may cause unexpected variability in our operating results. At any point in time, we are working on thousands of active client projects, which are governed by individual contracts. Most projects are customized based on the needs of the client, the type of services being provided, therapeutic indication of the drug, geographic locations and other variables. Project specific terms related to pricing, billing terms and the scope and type of services to be provided are generally negotiated and contracted on a project-by-project basis. Changes in the scope of work are common, especially under long-term contracts, and generally result in a change in contract value. In such situations, we enter into negotiations for a contract amendment to reflect the change in scope and the related price. Depending on the complexity of the amendment, the negotiation process can take from a few weeks for a simple adjustment to several months for a complex amendment. Management may authorize the project team to commence work on activities outside the contract scope while we negotiate and finalize the contract amendment. In these limited cases, if we are not able to obtain a contract amendment from the client, our profit margin on the arrangement may be impacted. This result occurs because our costs of delivery are expensed as they are incurred, while revenue is not recognized unless the client has agreed to the changes in scope and renegotiated pricing terms in a form that meets the definition of a contract under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The majority of revenue in our Integrated Engagement Services segment is from contract sales to the biopharmaceutical industry and broader healthcare market and recognized over time using a single measure of progress dependent on the performance obligation. Some of our Integrated Engagement Services contracts contain multiple performance obligations with distinct promises including recruiting, sales force automation and deployment of sales representatives. The nature of the terms of these performance obligations will vary based on the customized needs of the customer. For contracts that have multiple performance obligations, the standalone selling prices of our performance obligations are not directly observable since they are rarely sold standalone. Therefore, we estimate the standalone selling prices using an expected cost plus a margin approach under which expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation are forecasted and added to an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service. See Note 1 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for further discussion. 33 I tem 3.