ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements that reflect plans, estimates and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described in Part IIItem 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. As disclosed in our Annual Report, we have transitioned from International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS), to GAAP. All comparative figures in this Quarterly Report have been adjusted to GAAP for consistency. Key impacts of this transition are discussed in Transition from IFRS to GAAP and Note 3 to the financial statements included in our Annual Report. Overview We are a leading provider of AI Cloud Services, delivering large-scale GPU clusters for AI training and inference. Our vertically integrated platform is underpinned by an expansive portfolio of grid-connected land and data centers in renewable-rich regions across the U.S. and Canada. During the quarter ended September 30, 2025, the Group revised its reportable segments to better align with its evolving business operations and strategic objectives. Accordingly, comparative information for prior periods has been recast to conform to the current-period presentation. Previously, the Group operated and reported as a single segment. We now have two reportable business segments: AI Cloud Services and Bitcoin mining. Our AI Cloud Services operations generate revenue by providing access to cloud-based GPU computing to customers for AI training and interference workloads. As of September 30, 2025, we had approximately 2,100 GPUs operating in our data centers. Our Bitcoin mining operations generate revenue by earning Bitcoin through a combination of Block rewards and transaction fees from the operation of our Bitcoin miners and exchanging these Bitcoin for fiat currencies such as USD or CAD. We typically liquidate all the Bitcoin we mine daily and therefore did not have any Bitcoin held on our balance sheet as of September 30, 2025. As of September 30, 2025, we had installed hashrate capacity of approximately 50 EH/s. We are also pursuing a strategy of expanding and diversifying our revenue sources into other HPC and AI services beyond AI Cloud Services, including through the development of purpose-built AI data centers for colocation. Our cash and cash equivalents were $1,032.3 million as of September 30, 2025. Our total revenue was $240.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to total revenue of $52.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. We generated net income of $384.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to a net loss of $51.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. We generated EBITDA of $662.7 million and $(18.8) million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We generated Adjusted EBITDA of $91.7 million and $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are financial measures not defined by GAAP. For a definition of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, an explanation of our managements use of these measures and a reconciliation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to loss after income tax expense, see Key Indicators of Performance and Financial Conditions. We are a vertically integrated business, and currently own and operate our computing hardware (consisting of GPUs for AI Cloud Services and ASICs for Bitcoin Mining), as well as our electrical infrastructure and data centers, including the freehold land. This provides us with additional security and operational control over our assets. We believe data center ownership also allows our business to benefit from more sustainable cash flows and operational flexibility in comparison with operators that rely upon third-party colocation services or short-term land leases which may be subject to termination rights, profit sharing arrangements and/or potential changes to contractual terms such as pricing. 33 We generally target development of data centers in regions where there are low-cost and attractive renewable energy sources. Our data centers are currently powered by 100% renewable energy (whether from clean or renewable energy sources or through the purchase of RECs). We also focus on grid-connected power access which we believe not only helps facilitate a more reliable, long-term supply of power, but also provides us with the ability to support the energy markets in which we operate (for example, through potential participation in demand response, ancillary services provision and load management in deregulated markets such as Texas). Over 80% of our operating data center capacity is currently located in the United States. We have three data center sites in Texas, United States with executed grid connection agreements, namely Childress, Sweetwater 1 and Sweetwater 2. Our 750MW Childress site has been operating since April 2023 and, as of September 30, 2025, has approximately 650MW of operating data center capacity and installed hashrate capacity of approximately 40.1 EH/s. We are currently undertaking an expansion of our data center capacity at Childress to support direct-to-chip liquid cooling deployments known as Horizon 1, Horizon 2, Horizon 3 and Horizon 4 with a combined IT load of up to 200MW (based on rack density of up to 200kW, subject to customer requirements) for potential growth opportunities for HPC and AI services. We do not expect a material reduction in hashrate capacity at our Childress site until the full deployment of Horizon 3 and Horizon 4. We procure RECs in respect of 100% of our energy consumption at our Childress site on a periodic basis. Our 1,400MW Sweetwater 1 and 600MW Sweetwater 2 sites are under development and located approximately 40 miles from Abilene, Texas. As of September 30, 2025, we had paid $11.7 million of connection deposits for Sweetwater 1, as well as $13.5 million in connection deposits and $4.1 million in non-refundable connection costs for Sweetwater 2, with such payments facilitating a direct connection to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) grid. We expect to pay up to $13.5 million in connection deposits over the next 12 months, related to our Sweetwater 2 site. Construction of substation infrastructure has commenced at Sweetwater 1 (along with site establishment works such as construction offices, laydown areas and warehouse construction), and we are targeting grid connection and a substation energization date in the second quarter of calendar year 2026 for Sweetwater 1 and the fourth quarter of calendar year 2027 for Sweetwater 2. Design works are complete for a direct fiber loop between Sweetwater 1 and Sweetwater 2. We also have three data center sites in British Columbia, Canada, namely Canal Flats, Mackenzie and Prince George. Our Canal Flats site was acquired from PodTech Innovation Inc. and certain of its related parties in January 2020, and has been operating since 2019. As of September 30, 2025 it had approximately 30MW of data center capacity and hashrate capacity of approximately 1.6 EH/s. Our Mackenzie site has been operating since April 2022 and, as of September 30, 2025, had approximately 80MW of data center capacity and hashrate capacity of approximately 5.2 EH/s. Our Prince George site has been operating since September 2022 and, as of September 30, 2025, had approximately 50MW of data center capacity and hashrate capacity of approximately 2.1 EH/s. Our AI Cloud Service, comprising approximately 2,200 GPUs as of September 30, 2025, is also currently operated at our Prince George site. We expect that all of the hashrate capacity at Prince George will be displaced following the full deployment of GPUs at the site. Each of our sites in British Columbia are connected to BC Hydro electricity transmission network and have been 100% powered by renewable energy since commencement of operations (currently approximately 98% sourced from clean or renewable sources, including through hydroelectric sources, wind, solar and biomass, as reported by BC Hydro and approximately 2% accounted for by the purchase of RECs). BC Hydro retains the environmental attributes from the renewable energy they sell us. Our contracts with BC Hydro each had an initial term of one year and shall extend until terminated in accordance with the terms of the agreement upon six months notice. As of September 30, 2025, 83% and 17% of the Companys non-current assets were located in the United States of America and Canada, respectively. Recent Developments AI Cloud Services During the three months ended September 30, 2025 we signed additional multi-year cloud services contracts with leading AI companies, consisting of approximately 5,000 GPUs of our total fleet of approximately 23,300 GPUs (installed or on order) as of September 30, 2025. In addition, on October 4, 2025 and October 30, 2025, we signed additional cloud services contracts consisting of approximately 4,000 GPUs and 1,100 GPUs, respectively. 34 On November 2, 2025, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft Corporation, pursuant to which we will provide Microsoft with dedicated GPU services at Horizon data center facilities located in Childress, Texas over a five-year average term. The GPU services will be made available to Microsoft in several tranches targeted for deployment during 2026 (subject to extension in certain circumstances). The total contract value is approximately $9.7 billion through 2031, with 20% of the contract value for each tranche to be paid prior to the applicable delivery date and credited against the service fees due and payable after the 24th calendar month of the applicable GPU service term on a pro rata basis. The GPUs that will be used to provide the GPU services will be installed across four data center facilities at Childress known as Horizon 1, Horizon 2, Horizon 3 and Horizon 4, representing a combined IT load of approximately 200MW. Cash flows from the Microsoft Agreement will be used to finance part of the approximately $5.8 billion of GPU related capital expenditure anticipated to be required in connection with the agreement. Hardware Purchases During the three months ended September 30, 2025,we procured, through a combination of purchases and equipment finance leasing, approximately 21,200 GPUs, to be installed at our Prince George site, that brought the total GPU fleet to approximately 23,300 GPUs (installed or on order) as of September 30, 2025. On November 2, 2025, the Group entered into a purchase agreement with Dell Marketing L.P. (Dell) pursuant to which Dell will supply to the Group GPUs and ancillary products and services, scheduled to be delivered in several tranches from March 2026, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $5.8 billion payable in installments within 30 days of each tranche shipping. The Company has agreed to provide an unconditional parent guarantee with respect to the obligations under this agreement. Additionally, on November 5, 2025, the Group entered into financing arrangements with Dell Financial Services to finance a portion of the Groups GPU orders. The facility provides $199.8 million of financing, structured as a 24-month lease. The lease includes a purchase option at the Groups sole discretion, allowing the acquisition of the GPUs upon maturity of the lease for $1. The Company has agreed to provide a parent guarantee with respect to all payment obligations under this facility. Transition to U.S. Domestic Issuer Reporting As of December 31, 2024, the Group no longer met the definition of a foreign private issuer under U.S. federal securities regulations and is therefore required to file periodic reports on U.S. domestic issuer forms from June 30, 2025. Accordingly, this Quarterly Report contains unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Executive Leadership Change On September 8, 2025, we appointed Anthony Lewis as Chief Financial Officer. Our former Chief Financial Officer ceased employment the same day. Convertible Notes Transaction On October 14, 2025, the Group completed the issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2031. Net proceeds from the offering were approximately $979.0 million after deducting initial purchasers discounts, commissions, and estimated offering expenses. The Group used approximately $56.7 million of the net proceeds to enter into capped call transactions. See Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information. Factors Affecting Our Performance Ability to Expand HPC and AI services and Secure Customers Our growth strategies include pursuing a strategy to expand and diversify our revenue streams into new markets. Pursuant to that strategy, we are increasing our focus on diversification into HPC and AI services, including the provision of AI Cloud Services and potential colocation services. We believe we may be able to leverage our existing infrastructure 35 and expertise to continue to expand our HPC and AI Cloud Services offering and target a range of customers across various sectors. We are pursuing a strategy of replacing ASICs for Bitcoin mining with GPUs and/or contracts for HPC and AI services at some of our data centers. We are advancing the design of direct-to-chip liquid cooling systems, including to support an initial IT load of up to 200MW (based on rack density of 200kW, subject to customer requirements) liquid-cooled deployment at Childress. As we enter into new markets for HPC and AI services, we will face new sources of competition, new business models and new customer relationships. Our ability to secure and retain customers on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and specifically our ability to attract and retain customers under contracts that generate recurring revenue, will affect our expansion into HPC and AI services. Our strategy may not be successful as a result of a number of factors described under Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our BusinessOur increased focus on HPC and AI services may not be successful and may result in adverse consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition in our Annual Report. Our efforts to diversify our revenue streams may distract management, require significant additional capital, expose us to new competition and market dynamics, and increase our cost of doing business. Market Value of Bitcoin We primarily derive our revenues from Bitcoin mining. We earn rewards from Bitcoin mining that are paid in Bitcoin. We currently liquidate rewards that we earn from mining Bitcoin in exchange for fiat currencies such as USD or CAD, typically on a daily basis. Because the rewards we earn from mining Bitcoin are paid in Bitcoin, our operating and financial results are tied to fluctuations in the value of Bitcoin. In addition, positive or negative changes in the global hashrate impact mining difficulty and therefore the rewards we earn from mining Bitcoin may as a result materially affect our revenue and margins. In a declining Bitcoin price environment, the Bitcoin mining protocol may provide a natural downside protection for low-cost Bitcoin miners through an adjustment to the number of Bitcoin mined. For example, when the Bitcoin price falls, the ability for higher cost miners to pay their operating costs may be impacted, which in turn may lead over time to higher cost miners switching off their operations (for example, if their marginal cost of power makes it unprofitable to continue mining, they may exit the network). As a result, in such circumstances the global hashrate may fall, and remaining low-cost miners may benefit from an increased percentage share of the fixed Bitcoin network rewards. Conversely, in a rising Bitcoin price environment, additional mining machines may be deployed by miners, leading to increased global hashrate in the overall network. In periods of rising Bitcoin prices we may increase our capital expenditures in mining machines and related infrastructure to take advantage of potentially faster return on investments, subject to availability of capital and market conditions. However, we also note that the global hashrate may also increase or decrease irrespective of changes in the Bitcoin price. While the supply of Bitcoin is capped at 21 million, the price of Bitcoin fluctuates not just because of traditional notions of supply and demand but also because of the dynamic nature of the market for Bitcoin. Having been created in just a little over a decade as of the date of this Quarterly Report, the market for Bitcoin is rapidly changing and subject to global regulatory, tax, political, environmental, cybersecurity, and market factors beyond our control. For a discussion of other factors that could lead to material adverse changes in the market value of Bitcoin, which could in turn result in substantial damage to or even the failure of our business, see Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business in our Annual Report. Further, the rewards for each Bitcoin mined is subject to halving adjustments at predetermined intervals. At the outset, the reward for mining each block was set at 50 Bitcoins and this was cut in half to 25 Bitcoins on November 28, 2012 at block 210,000, cut in half to 12.5 Bitcoins on July 9, 2016 at block 420,000, cut in half to 6.25 Bitcoins on May 11, 2020 at block 630,000, and cut in half again to 3.125 Bitcoins on April 20, 2024 at block 840,000. The next two halving events for Bitcoin are expected to take place in 2028 at block 1,050,000 (when the reward will reduce to 1.5625 Bitcoins), and in 2032 at block 1,260,000 (when the reward will reduce to 0.78125 Bitcoins). As the rewards for each Bitcoin mined reduce, the Bitcoin we earn relative to our hashrate capacity decrease. As a result these adjustments have had, and will continue to have, material effects on our operating and financial results. Efficiency of Mining Machines As global mining capacity increases, we will need to correspondingly increase our total hashrate capacity in order to maintain our proportionate share relative to the overall global hashrate all else being equal to maintain the same amount of Bitcoin mining revenue. Our Bitcoin mining operations currently utilize the Bitmain S21 XP miners, S21 Pro miners, 36 S21 miners and T21 miners. To remain cost competitive compared to other mining sector participants, in addition to targeting cost effective sources of energy and operating efficient data center infrastructure, we expect we will need to maintain an energy efficient mining fleet, which will require capital outlays to purchase new miners, so that we can make periodic upgrades to our existing mining fleet. In certain periods, there may be disruption in global supply chain leading to shortage of advanced mining machines that meet our standard of quality and efficiency. To maintain our competitive edge over the long-term, we strive to maintain strong relationships with suppliers and vendors across the supply chain so that our fleet of miners is competitive. Ability to Secure Low-Cost Electricity, Particularly Renewable Power Bitcoin mining and HPC and AI services consume extensive energy, including for both the mining and cooling aspects of our operations. In particular, we believe the increasing difficulty of the network, driven by more miners and higher global hashrate, and the periodic halving adjustments of Bitcoin reward rates, as well as the global demand for HPC and AI services for various programs, including AI Cloud Services, and the need for reliability in such industry, will drive the increasing importance of access to power and cost effectiveness in Bitcoin mining and HPC and AI services over the long-term. Certain governments and regulators are increasingly focused on the energy and environmental impact of Bitcoin mining and HPC and AI services. This has led, and could lead, to new governmental measures regulating, restricting or prohibiting the use of electricity for Bitcoin mining and HPC and AI services, or Bitcoin mining or HPC and AI services generally or could result in increased power costs for these types of power consumers. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsAny electricity outage, non-supply or limitation of electricity supply, including as a result of political pressures or regulations, may result in material impacts to our operations and financial performance and Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulations and Regulatory FrameworksBitcoin mining and HPC and AI services are energy-intensive, which may restrict the geographic locations of miners and operations, in particular, to locations with renewable sources of power. Government regulators and utilities may potentially restrict the ability of electricity suppliers to provide electricity to Bitcoin miners or HPC and AI service providers, including us, or Bitcoin mining or HPC and AI services generally in our Annual Report. For example, the British Columbia Court of Appeal has recently upheld the Government of British Columbias moratorium on new and early-stage BC Hydro connection requests from cryptocurrency mining projects and the State of Texas has introduced, and may introduce, new laws and regulations that impose new processes and requirements for relating to the interconnection of facilities of large electrical loads to the ERCOT grid which include, among other things, voltage ride-through and/or frequency ride-through requirements. The price we pay for electricity depends on numerous factors including sources of generation, regulatory environment, electricity market structure, commodity prices, transmission cost allocation, instantaneous supply/demand balances, counterparty and procurement method. These factors may be subject to change over time and result in increased power costs. In regulated markets, such as in British Columbia, suppliers of renewable power rely on regulators to approve raises in rates, resulting in fluctuations subject to requests for rate increases and their approval thereof; in markets that are largely deregulated, such as in Texas, prices of renewable power in the competitive market within ERCOT will fluctuate within the wholesale market alongside sources of electricity from non-renewable resources, which is often driven by price fluctuations in commodities such as natural gas. In addition, developments in the United States, including actions taken by the new Trump Administration, such as a series of executive orders aimed at, among other things, pausing approvals of wind power projects, pausing funding of programs aimed at promoting renewable energy and increasing oil and gas production, as well the Department of Energys cancellation of certain grants for clean energy projects, signal a policy shift away from supporting renewable energy production. Likewise, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act decreases or eliminates certain tax credits available for new renewable generation projects, which could result in fewer such projects being constructed and lead to increases in electricity prices as demand increases. There have also been legislative proposals and other legal developments targeting renewable energy and large electrical loads in certain states, including Texas. While the impacts of these actions and any future developments cannot be fully predicted at this time, any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, laws, programs or incentives that provide electricity to Bitcoin miners or HPC and AI services operators or that support renewable energy, or the implementation of more arduous requirements for renewable energy projects, could potentially limit the availability of, and increase the costs we incur for, electricity, and including renewable energy, in the United States. 37 Competitive Environment We compete with a variety of Bitcoin miners globally, including individual hobbyists, mining pools and public and private companies, as well as HPC and AI service providers including large and well-funded companies. We believe that, even if the price of Bitcoin decreases, the Bitcoin mining market will continue to draw new miners and increase the scale and sophistication of competition in the Bitcoin mining industry, while the HPC and AI services industry continues to draw companies with significant resources to dedicate to growing their HPC and AI services business as well as expertise in the industry. Increasing competition generally results in increase to the global hashrate, which in turn would generally lead to a reduction in the percentage share of the fixed Bitcoin network rewards that Bitcoin miners, including the Company, would earn, and may result in larger and more established HPC and AI services providers increasing their resource allocation and attention to the industry, which could make our ability to compete, including to attract and maintain customers, more difficult. In addition, the new Trump Administration in the United States has suggested it may introduce different regulatory treatment for digital assets, including Bitcoin, that are mined within the United States compared to those that are mined outside of the United States. As a result, we may face increased competition specifically within the United States for low-cost energy and mining hardware from those attempting to benefit from any potential favorable treatment from mining within the United States. Inflation and Macroeconomic Risk Global economic and geopolitical conditions have been increasingly volatile due to factors such as trade restrictions, inflation, rising interest rates and supply chain disruptions. The impacts of inflation have resulted in increased operating expenses as we grow and develop our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems, consistent with its impact on the general economy. If our costs, in particular labor, information system, technology, hardware and utilities costs, were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we might not be able to effectively mitigate such higher costs. In addition, inflation may impact our ability to obtain financing for future capital expenditures at a price that is acceptable. Our inability or failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Market Events Impacting the Digital Asset Industry In the past, market events in the digital asset industry have negatively impacted market sentiment towards the broader digital asset industry. There have also been declines from time to time in the value of digital assets generally, including the value of Bitcoin, in connection with these events, which have impacted the Group from a financial and operational perspective. We expect that any such declines that may occur in the future would also impact the business and operations of the Group, and if such declines are significant, they could result in reduced revenue and operating cash flows and net operating losses, and could also negatively impact our ability to raise additional financing. Market Events Impacting Digital Asset Trading Platforms In the past, market events in the digital asset markets have involved and/or impacted certain digital asset trading platforms. As previously described, the mining pools, that we utilize for the purposes of our Bitcoin mining, currently transfer the Bitcoin we mine to Kraken, a digital asset trading platform, on a daily basis. Such Bitcoin is then exchanged for fiat currency on the Kraken exchange or via its over-the-counter trading desk on a daily basis. Because we currently exchange the Bitcoin we mine for fiat currency on a daily basis, we believe we have limited exposure to fluctuations in the value of Bitcoin with respect to the Bitcoin that we mine once we have mined such Bitcoin. In addition, we currently aim to withdraw fiat currency proceeds from Kraken on a daily basis and transfer such proceeds to one or more of our banks or other financial institutions. As a result, we have only limited amounts of Bitcoin and fiat currency with Kraken at any time, and accordingly we believe we have limited exposure to potential risks related to excessive redemptions or withdrawals of digital assets or fiat currencies from, or suspension of redemptions or withdrawals of digital assets or fiat currencies from, Kraken, or any other digital asset trading platform or custodian we may use in the future for purposes of liquidating the Bitcoin we mine on a daily basis. However, if Kraken, or any such other digital asset trading platform or custodian suffers excessive redemptions or withdrawals of digital assets or fiat currencies, or suspends redemptions or withdrawals of digital assets or fiat currencies, as applicable, any Bitcoin we have transferred to such platform that has not yet been exchanged for fiat currency, as well as any fiat currency that we have not yet withdrawn, as applicable, would be at risk. 38 In addition, if any such event were to occur with respect to Kraken or any such other digital asset trading platform or custodian we utilize to liquidate the Bitcoin we mine, we may be required to, or may otherwise determine it is appropriate to, or if for any reason we decide to, switch to an alternative digital asset trading platform and/or custodian, as applicable. We do not currently use any other digital asset trading platforms or custodians to liquidate the Bitcoin we mine. While we expect to continue to utilize Kraken, there are numerous alternative digital asset trading platforms that operate exchanges and/or over-the-counter trading desks with similar functionality to Kraken, and there are also several alternative funds transfer arrangements for facilitating the transfer of fiat currency proceeds from Kraken either with or without the use of a third-party custodian. We have onboarded Coinbase as an alternative digital asset trading platform to liquidate Bitcoin that we mine, although we have not utilized the Coinbase platform as of September 30, 2025. We may explore opportunities with alternative digital asset trading platforms, over-the-counter trading desks and custodians, and believe we have the ability to switch to Coinbase or alternative digital asset trading platforms and/or funds transfer arrangements to liquidate Bitcoin we mine and transfer the fiat currency proceeds without material expense or delay. As a result, we do not believe our business is substantially dependent on the Kraken digital asset trading platform. However, digital asset trading platforms and third-party custodians, including Kraken, are subject to a number of risks outside our control which could impact our business. In particular, during any intervening period in which we are switching digital asset trading platforms and/or third-party custodians, we could be exposed to credit risk with respect to any Bitcoin or fiat currency held by them. In addition, we could be exposed to fluctuations in the value of Bitcoin with respect to the Bitcoin that we mine during such period or that was previously mined but has not yet been exchanged for fiat currency. Impact of Tariffs During the 2025 calendar year, the United States announced the intention to impose tariffs on various countries, including an across-the-board 10% tariff on all countries and individualized higher tariffs on certain countries, including countries from which we have historically sourced miners (including Malaysia, Indonesia, and Thailand) and other hardware and equipment. Several of such tariffs have come into effect as of the date of this report, which could result in higher prices in order to obtain miners and other hardware and equipment, as well as limit the availability of miners and other hardware and equipment and could impact our timelines for installation, energization and expected revenue. In addition to those tariffs which have already come into effect, additional tariffs and trade restrictions have been suggested and others may be suggested in the future, which, if they were enacted, could further impact our business. For example, on August 7, 2025, the United States proposed a 100% tariff on semiconductors imported to the United States. Uncertainty around geopolitical conditions and international trade policies may continue to affect the movement and costs of goods, materials, services and capital. Further, we have received notices disputing the origin of Bitcoin miners imported during 2024 and 2025 from Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, claiming the origin of such miners is China and that an additional 25% tariff is applicable to certain shipments imported during such period. While we believe these disputes are without merit, including based on representations from the seller, and we have challenged them, if we are unsuccessful we would owe additional tariffs with respect to the import of such miners which could be material and could materially impact our business, prospects, operations and financial performance. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsChanging political and geopolitical conditions, including changing international trade policies and the implementation of wide-ranging, reciprocal and retaliatory tariffs and trade restrictions, could adversely impact our business, prospects, operations and financial performance in our Annual Report. Key Indicators of Performance and Financial Condition Key operating and financial metrics that we use, in addition to our GAAP unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, to assess the performance of our business are set forth below for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, include: EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA, EBITDA Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are not presented in accordance with GAAP. EBITDA is defined as net income (loss), excluding income tax (expense) benefit, finance expense, interest income, and depreciation and amortization, which are important components of our net income (loss). EBITDA Margin is defined as EBITDA divided by revenue. As a capital-intensive business, EBITDA excludes the impact of the cost of depreciation of computer hardware equipment and other fixed assets, which allows us to measure the liquidity of our business on a current basis, which we believe provides a useful tool for comparison to our competitors in a similar industry. We believe 39 EBITDA is a useful metric for assessing operating performance before the impact of non-cash and other items. Our presentation of EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these items. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA, further adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation, foreign exchange gain (loss), impairment of assets, certain other non-recurring income, gain (loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment, unrealized fair value gain (loss) on financial instruments, gain (loss) on partial extinguishment of financial liabilities, increase (decrease) in fair value of assets held for sale and certain other expense items. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is defined as Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful metric because it allows us to monitor the profitability of our business on a current basis and removes expenses which do not impact our ongoing profitability and which can vary significantly in comparison to other companies. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these items. We believe EBITDA, EBITDA Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin have limitations as analytical tools. These measures should not be considered as alternatives to Net income (loss) and Net income (loss) margin, as applicable, determined in accordance with GAAP. They are supplemental measures of our operating performance only, and as a result you should not consider these measures in isolation from, or as a substitute analysis for, our net income (loss) as determined in accordance with GAAP, which we consider to be the most comparable GAAP financial measure. For example, we expect depreciation of our fixed assets will be a large recurring expense over the course of the useful life of our assets, and that stock-based compensation is an important part of compensating certain employees, officers and directors. EBITDA, EBITDA Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin do not have any standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and therefore are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness as a comparative tool. 40 The following table shows a reconciliation of net income (loss) to EBITDA, EBITDA Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin: Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 ($ thousands) ($ thousands) Net income (loss) 384,611 (51,703) Income tax expense (benefit) 190,687 1,282 Finance expense 9,280 22 Interest income (7,128) (2,289) Depreciation and amortization 85,226 33,931 EBITDA 662,676 (18,757) Revenue 240,295 52,764 Net income (loss) margin (1) 160 % (98 %) EBITDA margin (2) 276 % (36 %) Add (deduct) the following: Unrealized (gain) loss on financial instruments (664,993) - (Increase) decrease in fair value of assets held for sale (3) - 2,582 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense $75 exercise price options 2,967 3,085 Non-cash stock-based compensation expense other 69,438 5,099 Impairment of assets (4) 16,257 6,942 Foreign exchange (gain) loss 5,382 (1,190) (Gain) loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 (833) Other one-off expense items (5) - 5,607 Adjusted EBITDA 91,740 2,535 Adjusted EBITDA margin (6) 38 % 5 % ____________________ (1)Net income (loss) margin is calculated as Net income (loss) divided by Revenue. (2)EBITDA margin is calculated as EBITDA divided by Revenue. (3)(Increase) decrease in fair value of assets held for sale for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was nil and $2.6 million, respectively. See Results of OperationsComparison of the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 Increase (decrease) in fair value of assets held for sale for further information. (4)Impairment of assets for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, was $16.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively. See Results of OperationsComparison of the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 Impairment of assets for further information. (5)Other one-off expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2024, includes a one-time liquidation payment incurred in August 2024 resulting from the transition to spot pricing at the Groups site at Childress, the reversal of the unrealized loss recorded on fixed price contracted amounts outstanding at June 30, 2024, loss on mining hardware in transit and one-off professional fees incurred in relation to litigation matters. (6)Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated as Adjusted EBITDA divided by Revenue. Net electricity costs Total net electricity costs, net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining and net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined are not presented in accordance with GAAP. Total net electricity costs is defined as the sum of electricity charges, demand response program income, demand response program fees, realized gain (loss) on financial instruments - electricity 41 financial assets, excluding a one-off liquidation payment incurred in August 2024 resulting from the transition to spot pricing at the Groups site at Childress and the reversal of the unrealized loss recorded on fixed price contracted amounts outstanding at June 30, 2024. Electricity charges are disclosed in cost of revenue (as described in Note 3 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report). The liquidation payment and reversal of the unrealized loss are included in the realized gain (loss) on financial instruments (as described in more detail in Note 8 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report), while demand response program income is included in other operating income and demand response program fees are included in selling, general and administrative expenses (as described in more detail in Note 4 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report). Total net electricity costs exclude the cost of RECs. Net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining is defined as Total net electricity costs less electricity costs attributable to AI Cloud Services as disclosed in cost of revenue - AI Cloud Services (as described in Note 3 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report). Net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined is defined as Net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining divided by the total Bitcoin mined for the relevant fiscal period. A key measure of the performance factor of our business is our ability to secure low-cost power, and similarly a key measure of the performance of our Bitcoin mining operations is the amount of power used to mine each Bitcoin. Total net electricity costs, net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining and net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined allows us to measure the costs of electricity of our business on a current basis and we believe provides a useful tool for comparison to our competitors in a similar industry. We believe total net electricity costs, net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining and net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined are a useful metrics for assessing operating performance, including any gain/(loss) on the electricity purchased and subsequently resold, and earnings for our participation in demand response programs. We believe total net electricity costs, net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining and net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined have limitations as an analytical tool. These measures should not be considered as alternatives to electricity charges as included in Cost of revenue, as applicable, determined in accordance with GAAP. They are supplemental measures of our operating performance only, and as a result you should not consider these measures in isolation from, or as a substitute analysis for, our electricity charges as determined in accordance with GAAP, which we consider to be the most comparable GAAP financial measure. Total net electricity costs, net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining and net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined do not have any standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and therefore are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness as a comparative tool. The following table shows a reconciliation of total net electricity costs, net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining and net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined to the most comparable GAAP financial measure: Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 ($ thousands) ($ thousands) Total Electricity charges (included in Cost of revenue) $ (75,938) $ (29,822) Add (deduct) the following: Realized gain (loss) on financial instruments - Electricity financial asset - (4,215) One off liquidation payment (included in Realized gain (loss) on financial instruments) (1) - 7,210 Reversal of unrealized loss (included in Realized gain (loss) on financial instruments) (2) - (3,448) Demand response program income (included in Other operating income) 3,807 1,626 Demand response program fees (included in Selling, general and administrative expenses) (228) (98) Total net electricity costs (72,359) (28,747) Electricity charges - AI Cloud Services (included in Cost of revenue - AI Cloud Services) 109 38 Net electricity costs - Bitcoin Mining (72,250) (28,709) Bitcoin mined 2,039 813 Net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined (3) (35.4) (35.3) 42 ____________________ (1)One-off liquidation payment includes the amount paid to exit positions previously entered into under a fixed price and fixed quantity contract, on transition to a spot price and actual usage contract. (2)Reversal of unrealized loss is calculated as the unrealized loss on financial instruments as at June 30, 2024. (3)Net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined is calculated as Net Electricity Costs - Bitcoin mining divided by Bitcoin mined. There was no material change to net electricity costs per Bitcoin mined for the three months ended September 30, 2025, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operation, disclosed in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024. Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 ($ thousands) ($ thousands) Revenue: Bitcoin mining revenue $ 232,948 $ 49,575 AI Cloud Services revenue 7,347 3,189 Total revenue 240,295 52,764 Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below): Bitcoin mining (79,945) (31,627) AI Cloud Services (728) (232) Total cost of revenue (80,673) (31,859) Operating (expenses) income: Selling, general and administrative expenses (138,359) (25,172) Depreciation and amortization (85,226) (33,931) Impairment of assets (16,257) (6,942) Gain (loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (13) 833 Other operating expenses (4,405) Other operating income 3,828 1,626 Total operating (expenses) income (236,027) (67,991) Operating (loss) income (76,405) (47,086) Other (expense) income: Finance expense (9,280) (22) Interest income 7,128 2,289 Increase (decrease) in fair value of assets held for sale (2,582) Realized gain (loss) on financial instruments (5,756) (4,215) Unrealized gain (loss) on financial instruments 664,993 Foreign exchange gain (loss) (5,382) 1,190 Other non-operating income 5 Total other (expense) income 651,703 (3,335) Income (loss) before taxes 575,298 (50,421) Income tax (expense) benefit (190,687) (1,282) Net income (loss) $ 384,611 $ (51,703) 43 Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 Bitcoin mining revenue Our Bitcoin mining revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, was $232.9 million and $49.6 million, respectively. This revenue was generated from the mining and sale of 2,039 and 813 Bitcoin during the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase in revenue is primarily due to a $43.3 million increase attributable to the increase in the average Bitcoin price and $140.0 million increase attributable to the increase in average operating hashrate during the three months ended September 30, 2025 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, which was partially offset by the increase in the difficulty implied global hashrate during the same period. Average operating hashrate increased to 45.3 EH/s for the three months ended September 30, 2025 as compared to 12.1 EH/s for the three months ended September 30, 2024. AI Cloud Services revenue Our AI Cloud Services revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, was $7.3 million and $3.2 million, respectively. This increase was primarily due to an increase in AI Cloud Services customers and contracts, as a result of continued capacity expansion. Cost of revenue - Bitcoin Mining (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of revenue - Bitcoin Mining consist of electricity charges, employee benefits, and other direct expenses incurred in generating Bitcoin mining revenue. Cost of revenue - Bitcoin Mining for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $79.9 million and $31.6 million, respectively. This increase was primarily due to a $46.0 million increase in electricity costs, in line with the increase in Bitcoin mined during the same period and a $1.6 million increase in employee benefits as a result of increased site headcount. Cost of revenue - AI Cloud Services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of revenue - AI Cloud Services consist of electricity charges, employee benefits, and other direct expenses incurred in generating AI Cloud Services. Cost of revenue - AI Cloud Services for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $0.7 million and $0.2 million, respectively. This increase was primarily due to an increase in employee benefits as a result of increased headcount, as well as continued capacity expansion. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist of employee benefits expense, RECs, site expenses (including property taxes), repairs and maintenance, stock-based compensation and professional fees, among other expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $138.4 million and $25.2 million, respectively. This increase includes a $31.6 million increase in accrued payroll taxes payable upon exercise of stock-based compensation awards, a $3.3 million increase in employee benefits expense related to a rise in the employee headcount as a result of expansion of business operations, a $2.2 million increase in the consumption of RECs as a result of continued expansion of the Childress site and a $64.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to the September 2025 vesting of certain market-based RSUs and the resulting accelerated recognition of the remaining unrecognized compensation cost, the amortization of the certain stock-based payment awards modified and awarded in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2025, and the amortization of RSUs issued to employees and directors during the three months ended September 30, 2025. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses also included a $4.0 million increase in professional fees, a $2.5 million increase in sponsorships and marketing, a $2.2 million increase in insurance costs, and a $1.3 million increase in property taxes as a result of the expansion of our business operations and ongoing expenses as a publicly listed company. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization consist primarily of the depreciation of Bitcoin mining hardware, HPC hardware and data centers. Depreciation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $85.2 million and $33.9 million respectively. This increase was primarily due continued expansion at Childress and additional hardware miners and GPUs placed into service during the fiscal year 2025, including three months ended September 30, 2025. 44 Impairment of assets Impairment of assets for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $16.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively. Impairment was primarily due to the S21 Pro miners and non-functioning T21 miners during the three months ended September 30, 2025, and the initial classification of the S19jPro miners as held for sale during the three months ended September 30, 2024. See Note 9 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for further information. Gain (loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment The net gain (loss) on disposal of property and equipment for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $0.0 million and $0.8 million, respectively. The net gain in three months ended September 30, 2024 relates to the exchange of Bitmain T21 mining hardware for miners of the same model and specification under the Bitmain S21XP exchange agreement. Other operating expenses Other operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was nil and $4.4 million, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2024 we incurred a $1.7 million loss on theft of mining hardware in transit and a $2.7 million provision for non-refundable GST, which was subsequently released during the year ended June 30, 2025. Other operating income Other operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $3.8 million and $1.6 million, respectively. This increase is primarily due to a $2.2 million increase in demand response program income at the Groups site at Childress. Finance expense Finance expense for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $9.3 million and $0.0 million, respectively. The increase was primarily related to interest expense on the convertible notes issued in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year 2025. Interest income Interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $7.1 million and $2.3 million, respectively. The increase in interest income was primarily related to an increase in average cash and cash equivalents balance in the quarter ended September 30, 2025 as compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2024, as a result of the convertibles notes issued in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2025. Increase (decrease) in fair value of assets held for sale Increase (decrease) in fair value of assets held for sale for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was nil and $(2.6) million, respectively. This increase was primarily related to the change in fair value of the S19j Pro miners held for sale during the three months ended September 30, 2024. No assets were held for sale as of September 30, 2025. Realized gain (loss) on financial instruments Realized gain (loss) recorded on financial instruments for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $(5.8) million and $(4.2) million, respectively. Realized gain (loss) on financial instruments represent the loss on the electricity purchased and subsequently resold under a power supply agreement at the Groups Childress site during the three months ended September 30, 2024 and the loss on expired Bitcoin purchase options during the three months ended September 30, 2025. See Notes 8 and 10 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for further information. 45 Unrealized gain (loss) on financial instruments Unrealized gain (loss) on financial instruments for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $665.0 million and nil, respectively. The unrealized gain (loss) during the three months ended September 30, 2025 related to the changes in fair value of the Capped Call Transactions and Prepaid Forward Transactions, which were entered into during the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year 2025. Foreign exchange gain (loss) Foreign exchange gain (loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $(5.4) million and $1.2 million, respectively. The increase in the loss was primarily related to foreign exchange movements in the translation of monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than the functional currency of the Group. Income tax (expense) benefit Income tax (expense) benefit for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was an expense of $(190.7) million and $(1.3) million, respectively. The quarter-over-quarter increase was driven primarily by higher deferred tax expense from the unrealized gain (loss) on financial instruments during the three months ended September 30, 2025. Net income (loss) Net income (loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $384.6 million and $(51.7) million respectively. The increase in net income (loss) is primarily attributable to the increase in Bitcoin revenue and the changes in the fair value of the Capped Call Transactions and Prepaid Forward Transactions during the three months ended September 30, 2025. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,032.3 million. For the three months ended September 30, 2025, we had net income (loss) of $384.6 million and net operating cash inflow of $142.4 million. Our primary sources of liquidity and capital during the three months ended September 30, 2025, included available cash and cash equivalents, proceeds from sales under our at-the-market facility, proceeds from issuances of convertible notes and cash inflows from operations. Historically, our primary cash requirements have been for working capital needs to support capital expenditure for our data center platform, equipment financing, and the purchase of additional Bitcoin miners and GPUs, as well as investments in growth and development initiatives. Based on our current operating plans and business conditions, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, expected cash flows from operations and proceeds from future financing activities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated liquidity requirements for the next 12 months and for the reasonably foreseeable future. Our liquidity outlook could be adversely affected by events that materially reduce our access to the capital markets or impair our production capabilities, including, but not limited to, our ability to maintain our existing operations, failure to effectively execute our growth strategies, the impact of Bitcoin halving events, significant increases in electricity costs not accompanied by corresponding increases in the price of Bitcoin, and broader deteriorating macroeconomic conditions. Furthermore, we have generated significant negative cash flows from investing activities as we continue to support the growth of our AI Cloud Services segment. We anticipate making significant investments for the foreseeable future, including capital requirements associated with the recently signed agreement with Microsoft Corporation (see Recent Developments), which includes GPU acquisitions and the development of the Horizon 1, Horizon 2, Horizon 3 and Horizon 4 data center facilities. We expect these and other planned investments to require substantial additional capital to support the continued expansion in this segment. The total number of Ordinary shares outstanding as of October 31, 2025, is 283,465,490. We continue to monitor funding markets for opportunities to raise additional debt, equity or equity-linked capital to fund further capital or liquidity needs and our growth plans, and we are actively exploring alternative financings. Any such financings are subject to market conditions and there can be no assurance as to the structure, timing, amount or other terms of any such financing but any could be material. 46 At-the-market facilities We are party to an At Market Sales Agreement (the Sales Agreement) with B. Riley Securities, Inc., Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., Compass Point Research & Trading, LLC, Canaccord Genuity LLC, Citigroup Global Markets, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Macquarie Capital (USA) Inc. Pursuant to the Sales Agreement, we may offer and sell our Ordinary shares from time to time in an amount not to exceed the lesser of the amount registered on an effective registration statement and for which we have filed a prospectus, and the amount authorized from time to time to be issued and sold under the Sales Agreement by the Board. As a result, we may increase the amount of our Ordinary shares that may be sold from time to time pursuant to the Sales Agreement in accordance with the terms of the Sales Agreement. As of October 31, 2025, the Company had issued 66,707,732 shares pursuant to its at-the-market offering under the Sales Agreement at varying prices generating an aggregate of approximately $1.0 billion in proceeds, with no further amounts remaining available for sale under our prospectus supplement relating to the Sales Agreement and related registration statement. We expect to register additional Ordinary shares for sale under the Sales Agreement, potentially in the near term, to provide additional financing flexibility. Any sales of Ordinary shares under the Sales Agreement could be substantial. Convertible notes On October 14, 2025, we issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Convertible Notes. The 2031 Convertible Notes will mature on July 1, 2031, unless earlier converted or redeemed or repurchased by us. Before the close of business on the business day immediately before April 1, 2031, noteholders will have the right to convert their 2031 Convertible Notes only upon the occurrence of certain events. On or after April 1, 2031 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately before the maturity date, noteholders may convert their 2031 Convertible Notes at any time at their election. We will generally have the right to elect to settle conversions by paying or delivering, as applicable, cash, Ordinary shares or a combination of cash and Ordinary shares. The initial conversion rate is 11.6784 Ordinary shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2031 Convertible Notes, which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $85.63 per Ordinary share. The conversion rate and conversion price will be subject to customary adjustments upon the occurrence of certain events. In addition, if certain corporate events that constitute a Make-Whole Fundamental Change (as defined in the indenture governing the 2031 Convertible Notes) occur, then the conversion rate will, in certain circumstances, be increased for a specified period of time. In connection with each of the 2029 Convertible Notes offering, the 2030 Convertible Notes offering and the 2031 Convertible Notes offering (together, the Convertible Notes), we entered into Capped Call Transactions. The Capped Call Transactions are expected generally to reduce potential dilution to our Ordinary shares upon any conversion of each series of the Convertible Notes and/or offset any payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Convertible Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. The Capped Call Transactions will expire upon the maturity of the relevant series of Convertible Notes. Also in connection with each of the 2029 Convertible Notes offering and the 2030 Convertible Notes offering, we entered into Prepaid Forward Transactions. The Prepaid Forward Transactions are generally intended to facilitate privately negotiated derivative transactions, including swaps, between the forward counterparty or its affiliates and investors in such series of Convertible Notes relating to our Ordinary shares. As a result, the Prepaid Forward Transactions are expected to allow the investors to establish short positions that generally correspond to (but may be greater than) commercially reasonable initial hedges of their investment in the relevant series of Convertible Notes. The Prepaid Forward Transactions will expire shortly after the maturity of such Convertible Notes. Hardware Purchase Contracts On July 3, 2025, we announced that we entered into a purchase order with respect to approximately 2,400 GPUs for a total purchase price of approximately $130 million, which are to be delivered by the end of calendar year 2025 and installed at our Prince George site. On August 23, 2025, we terminated part of the July purchase order and entered into an equipment lease pursuant to which we agreed to refinance $102 million of the purchase price of such purchase, with the remaining amounts under the July purchase order to be funded from existing cash. Further in August 2025, we entered into a purchase order with respect to an additional approximately 4,200 GPUs for a total purchase price of approximately $193 million and entered into a further purchase agreement for approximately 1,200 47 GPUs for a total purchase price of approximately $71.4 million. We also procured approximately 1,200 GPUs through an equipment lease as detailed below. These additional GPUs are expected to be delivered by end of calendar year 2025 and will be installed at our Prince George site. Further in September 2025, we entered into purchase orders with respect to an additional approximately 4,200 GPUs for a total purchase price of approximately $205.7 million, purchase agreements for approximately 7,100 GPUs for a total purchase price of approximately $429.2 million and a purchase agreement for approximately 1,100 GPUs for a total purchase price of approximately $39.3 million. These additional GPUs are expected to be delivered by the end of the first calendar quarter of 2026 and will be installed at our Prince George site. Equipment Leasing Agreements As noted above, on August 23, 2025 we entered into an arrangement pursuant to which we secured $102 million in financing for the prior purchase of approximately 2,200 GPUs. The financing is structured as a 36-month lease for 100% of the purchase price of the GPUs, with fixed monthly lease payments of $2.8 million. The financing structure incorporates a fair market value purchase option which, at the sole discretion of the Company upon maturity of the 36-month term, allows for the acquisition of the GPUs at the lower of its prevailing fair market value and 18% of the initial purchase cost of approximately $102 million. Further, on August 28, 2025 we entered into an arrangement pursuant to which we secured approximately $96 million in financing to support the acquisition of approximately 1,200 GPUs. The financing is structured as a 24-month lease for 100% of the purchase price of the GPUs, with fixed monthly lease payments of $4.4 million. The financing structure also incorporates a $1 buyout option at the sole discretion of the Company upon maturity of the 24-month term. The Company has provided a parent guarantee with respect to both equipment leases. See Note 24 to our audited financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2025, included in the Annual Report for further information. Additionally, on November 5, 2025, the Group entered into financing arrangements with Dell Financial Services to finance a portion of the Groups GPU orders. The facility provides $199.8 million of financing, structured as a 24-month lease. The lease includes a purchase option at the Groups sole discretion, allowing the acquisition of the GPUs upon maturity of the lease for $1. The Company has agreed to provide a parent guarantee with respect to all payment obligations under this facility. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2025, there have been no material changes to our off-balance sheet arrangements as reported under Item 7 in the Annual Report. Historical Cash Flows The following table sets forth a summary of our historical cash flows for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 presented. Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 ($ thousands) ($ thousands) Net cash from (used in) operating activities 142,353 (3,915) Net cash from (used in) investing activities (280,877) (387,137) Net cash from (used in) financing activities 606,137 84,669 Net cash and cash equivalents increase/(decrease) 467,613 (306,383) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 564,526 404,601 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 124 371 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period $ 1,032,263 $ 98,589 48 Operating activities Comparison of cash flows for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 Our net cash from operating activities was $142.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to net cash used in operating activities of $(3.9) million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Our net cash from (used in) operating activities was $142.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to net income of $384.6 million. The increase in net income to net cash from (used in) operating activities primarily reflects non-cash adjustments of $(483.1) million, which is driven by unrealized (gain) loss on financial instruments of $(665.0) million, depreciation and amortization of $85.2 million, stock-based compensation expense of $72.4 million, and impairment of assets of $16.3 million. Other non-cash items, including realized gain (loss) on financial instruments, foreign exchange (gain) loss, amortization of debt issuance costs, and (gain) loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, collectively contributed $9.3 million. Refer to Results of Operations for further detail of associated costs. Unrealized (gain) loss on financial instruments reflects the changes in fair value of the Capped Call Transactions and Prepaid Forward Transactions, which were entered into during the second and fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2025. Depreciation and amortization reflects ongoing investment in property, plant, and equipment, and stock-based compensation reflects the amortization expense associated with the issuance of equity incentives. Changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in a net cash increase of $239.5 million, primarily due to an increase in tax related liabilities of $187.9 million, an increase in other liabilities of $48.7 million reflecting an increase in accrued payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, and an increase in deferred revenue of $22.5 million from AI Cloud Service contracts. This was partly offset by increase in accounts receivable and other receivables of $13.1 million related to AI Cloud Service contracts, and a $12.6 million increase in prepayments and deposits reflecting an increase in computer hardware prepayments and deposits for land options and other deposits. Investing activities Comparison of cash flows for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 Our net cash used in investing activities was$280.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $387.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. For the three months ended September 30, 2025, the decrease in cash outflows of $106.2 million was attributable to a decrease in payments for computer hardware prepayments and payments for other prepayments and other assets, partially offset by an increase in payments for property, plant and equipment, net of hardware prepayments. Payments for computer hardware prepayments included payments relating to mining and HPC hardware, which were paid in respect of the Hardware Purchases Agreements as outlined in Hardware Purchase Contracts. Our $180.3 million payment for property, plant and equipment net of mining hardware prepayments primarily related to the continuing expansion of our data center capacity at Childress, including Horizon 1 and Horizon 2, and at the Sweetwater 1 and Sweetwater 2 sites. Financing activities Comparison of cash flows for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 Net cash from financing activities was $606.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to net cash from financing activities of $84.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. For the three months ended September 30, 2025, our cash inflows comprised primarily of $618.4 million in gross proceeds from the issuance of 23,041,102 shares under the Sales Agreement pursuant to our at-the-market program and $6.6 million in proceeds from options sale, partially offset by offerings costs related to the at-the-market program of $18.5 million. Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2025, the Group had commitments of $1,083.8 million, as compared to $368.8 million as of June 30, 2025. The increase in total commitments was primarily due to an increase in commitments related to our 49 expansion into HPC and AI services and includes committed capital expenditure on computer hardware and infrastructure related to site development at Horizon 1 and Horizon 2 at the Childress site and the Sweetwater 1 and Sweetwater 2 sites. The commitments set forth above do not reflect commitments related to hardware purchase agreements entered into after September 30, 2025 as described under Hardware Purchase Contracts above. Assuming the remaining outstanding 2030 Convertible Notes and 2029 Convertible Notes, and 2031 Convertible Notes are not converted into Ordinary shares, repurchased or redeemed prior to maturity, (i) annual interest payments of approximately $14.3 million in each calendar year from 2025 through 2030 in connection with the 2030 Convertible Notes and annual interest payments of approximately $19.3 million in each calendar year from 2025 through 2029 in connection with the 2029 Convertible Notes, and (ii) principal for each of the Convertible Notes upon maturity, for a total of $1,990 million, will be payable under the terms of the Convertible Notes. Refer to Notes 14 and 20 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report for further information. Research and Development, Patents and Licenses, etc. We are building proprietary data centers that continue to be refined through research and development efforts to further optimize the operational environment and efficiencies, including targeting stable performance during high and low temperature periods, as well as the life of our hardware. One recent focus area has been on implementing power cost optimization initiatives at our Childress site in Texas, which enable the transition between Bitcoin mining and energy trading to optimize profitability. We are also pursuing a strategy of expanding and diversifying our revenue sources into new markets, and we are continuing to diversify into HPC and AI services pursuant to that strategy. Design, research and development have not been significant components of our business, however such activities may become more significant in the future. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. We consider the following policies to be critical because of their complexity and the high degree of judgment involved in implementing them: stock-based compensation expense, estimation of useful lives of assets, income taxes, impairment of long-lived assets, and loss contingencies. During the three months ended September 30, 2025, there were no changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those described in our Annual Report, except as mentioned in Note 2 Basis of presentation, summary of significant accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.