Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, seek, anticipate, estimate, future, intend, plan, strategy, predict, likely, should, will, would, could, can, may, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based only on managements current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of the Company, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in particular, those included in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this report, and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. Any forward-looking statement made in this report speaks only as of the date of this report, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. is a well-rounded financial technology company that strengthens connections between financial institutions and the people and businesses they serve. For nearly 50 years, we have provided technology solutions to help banks and credit unions innovate faster, strategically differentiate, and successfully compete while serving the evolving needs of their accountholders. We empower approximately 7,400 financial institutions and diverse corporate entities with people-inspired innovation, personal service, and insight-driven solutions. Mission Statement We strengthen the connections between people and their financial institutions through technology and services that reduce the barriers to financial health. This mission has always been part of the foundation on which Jack Henry was built. Our founders, Jack Henry and Jerry Hall, were committed to their community and believed they could help financial institutions better serve the needs of their accountholders by using more innovative technology and services. Since our founding in 1976, much has changed, but our commitment to supporting community and regional banks and credit unions remains unwavering. We continue to be guided by our founding philosophy: do the right thing, do whatever it takes, and have fun. Who We Serve We provide products and services primarily to community and regional banks and credit unions (see "Our Industry" below): Core bank integrated data processing systems are provided to over 950 banks. Our banking solutions support both on-premise and private cloud operating environments with functionality for core processing platforms and integrated complementary solutions. Core credit union data processing solutions are provided to credit unions of all sizes, with a client base of approximately 715 credit unions. We offer a flagship core processing platform and integrated complementary solutions that support both on-premise and private cloud operating environments. Non-core highly specialized core-agnostic products and services are also provided to banks and credit unions. We offer complementary solutions that include highly specialized financial performance, imaging and payment solutions, information security and risk management, retail delivery, and online and mobile functionality. These products and services enhance the performance of traditional banks and credit unions of all asset sizes and charters, and non-traditional diverse corporate entities. In total, we serve approximately 1,670 bank and credit union core clients and over 5,710 non-core clients. Our products and services provide our clients with solutions that can be tailored to support their unique growth, service, operational, and performance goals. Our well-rounded solutions also enable banks and credit unions to offer the high-demand products and services required by their accountholders to compete more successfully and to capitalize on evolving trends shaping the financial services industry. We are committed to exceeding our clients expectations. We measure and monitor their satisfaction using a variety of surveys, such as an annual survey on the client's anniversary date and randomly-generated online surveys initiated each day by routine support requests to ensure feedback is received throughout the year. The survey results are analyzed and provided to operational areas to ensure our service consistently exceeds our clients expectations. We believe this process ensures we understand the Voice of the Customer which contributes to our excellent retention rates. We are focused on establishing long-term client relationships, continually expanding and strengthening those relationships. We do so with cross sales of additional products and services that support our clients' strategy, earning new financial and non-financial clients, and ensuring our product offerings are highly competitive. The majority of our support and services revenue is derived from our private and public cloud services for our hosted clients that are typically on a six-year contract, recurring electronic payment solutions that are generally on a contract term of six years, and our on-premise clients that are typically on a one-year contract. Less predictable software license fees, paid by clients implementing our software solutions on-premise, and hardware sales, including all non-software products that we re-market in order to support our software systems, complement our primary revenue sources. Information regarding the classification of our business into four separate segments is set forth in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements (see Item 8). 5 We recognize that our associates and their collective contributions are ultimately responsible for Jack Henry's past, present, and future success. Recruiting and retaining high-quality associates is essential to our ongoing growth and financial performance, and we believe we have established an organizational culture that sustains high levels of associate engagement. For further discussion of our human capital considerations, see "Human Capital" below. Our Industry Our core banking solutions generally serve commercial banks and savings institutions with up to $55 billion and abovein assets and are designed to be capable of serving institutions with up to $150 billion in assets. We complete annual, third-party testing to validate this capability each August. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), there were approximately 4,440 commercial banks and savings institutions in the $55 billion and under asset range as of December 31, 2024, and we currently support over 950 of these banks with one of our three core information processing platforms and a significant number of complementary/payment products and services. Our core credit union solutions serve credit unions of all asset sizes. According to America's Credit Unions ("ACU") (formerly Credit Union National Association), there were 4,550 domestic credit unions as of December 31, 2024, and we currently support approximately 715 of these credit unions with one flagship core information processing platform and a significant number of complementary/payment products and services. Our non-core solutions serve banks and credit unions of all asset sizes and charters and other diverse corporate entities. We support these organizations with specialized solutions for generating additional revenue and growth, increasing security, mitigating operational risks, and controlling operating costs. The FDIC reports the number of commercial banks and savings institutions declined 13% from the end of calendar year 2019 to the end of calendar year 2024, due mainly to mergers and acquisitions. Although the number of banks continued to decline at a 3% compound annual rate during this period, aggregate assets increased at a compound annual rate of 5% and totaled $24.1 trillion as of December 31, 2024. There were six new bank charters issued in calendar year 2024 and sixissued in the 2023 calendar year. Comparing calendar years 2024 to 2023, the number of transactions of FDIC-insured banks acquiring or merging with other banks or credit unions decreased 18%. ACU reports the number of credit unions declined 15% from the end of calendar year 2019 to the end of calendar year 2024. Although the number of credit unions declined at a 3% compound annual rate during this period, aggregate assets increased at a compound annual rate of 8% and totaled $2.3 trillion as of December 31, 2024. Despite continued industry consolidation, Jack Henry net core footprints increased year-over-year from calendar year 2023 to calendar year 2024 in both bank and credit union client bases. Furthermore, the average assets under management for our banking core clients grew from $1.26 billion to $1.29 billion, and the average assets under management for our credit union core clients grew from $1.17 billion to $1.20 billion. Community and regional banks and credit unions are vitally important to the communities, consumers, and businesses they serve as well as to the local economies where they operate. Bank and credit union accountholders rely on these institutions to provide personalized, relationship-based service and competitive financial products and services available through the accountholders' delivery channel of choice. Institutions are recognizing that attracting and retaining accountholders in todays highly competitive financial industry and realizing near-term and long-term performance goals are often technology dependent. Banks and credit unions must implement technological solutions that enable them to: Offer digital strategies that provide the convenience-driven services required in todays financial services industry. Maximize performance with accessible, accurate, and timely business intelligence information. Provide the high-demand products and services needed to successfully compete with traditional and non-traditional competitors created by convergence within the financial services industry. Foster growth and efficiency through delivering accountholders exceptional user experiences. Expand existing accountholder relationships and strengthen exit barriers by cross selling additional products and services. Capitalize on new revenue, and deposit and loan portfolio growth opportunities. Increase operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Protect mission-critical information assets and operational infrastructure. Protect accountholders with various security tools from fraud and related financial losses. Maximize the day-to-day use of technology and return on technology investments. Ensure full regulatory compliance. 6 Jack Henrys extensive product and service offerings help diverse banks and credit unions meet business challenges and capitalize on opportunities. We strive to get to know our clients, understand their strategies and challenges, and provide innovative solutions that help them achieve short- and long-term success. Business Strategy Our fundamental business strategy is to generate organic revenue and earnings growth augmented by strategic acquisitions. Our strategy for the next three to five years is to enable banks and credit unions to win on exceptional user experience and trust through open, innovative technology, data-driven insights, and service, resulting in greater growth and efficiency. We intend to execute this strategy by: Providing community and regional banks and credit unions with core processing systems that provide excellent functionality and support on-premise and private cloud delivery environments with identical functionality. Expanding each core client relationship by cross-selling complementary/payment products and services that enhance the functionality provided by our core processing systems. Delivering non-core highly specialized core-agnostic complementary/payment products and services to banks and credit unions, including institutions not utilizing one of our core processing systems, and diverse corporate entities. Developing and deploying a long-term technology modernization strategy to provide public cloud-native solutions that provide clients with greater flexibility, optionality, open integration, speed to market, and other benefits. Upholding a company-wide commitment to service that consistently exceeds our clients expectations and generates high levels of retention. Carrying out a large client strategy that focuses on deep engagement with banks and credit unions to align objectives, optimize revenue streams, and foster collaborative growth and innovation through continuous engagement and commitment to excellence. Growing our market share of services to small and medium-sized businesses offering features through banks and credit unions. Building, maintaining, and enhancing a protected environment and tools that help our clients and Jack Henry protect accountholder data, assets, and comply with regulations. Maintaining a disciplined acquisition strategy. Technology Modernization Strategy Our public cloud-native technology modernization strategy seeks to enable our bank and credit union clients to innovate faster, differentiate themselves in the markets they serve, and meet the evolving needs of their accountholders. The Jack Henry PlatformTM is the centerpiece of this strategy and operates as a single public cloud-native, API-first platform, which we are developing into a fully functional modern alternative for existing core functions. The platform includes services like wire transfers, a centralized data hub for reporting and analysis, exception item processing, general ledger, deposit servicing, and entitlements. These services can be combined with other Jack Henry public cloud-native solutions, such as digital banking, digital payments, and fraud detection, as well as third-party provider solutions on a single, unified platform. The Jack Henry Platform leverages public cloud advantages, including high system availability, rapid processing, modern security standards, easily deployable upgrades, and scalability. Acquisition Strategy We have a disciplined approach to acquisitions and have been successful in supplementing our organic growth with 35 strategic acquisitions since the end of fiscal year 1999. We continue to explore acquisitions that have the potential to: Expand our suite of complementary/payment products and services. Provide products and services that can be sold to both existing core and non-core clients as well as outside our core base to new clients. Accelerate our internal development efforts for technology modernization. Provide selective opportunities to sell outside our traditional markets in the financial services industry. After nearly 50 years in business, we have very few gaps in our product line, so it is increasingly difficult to find proven products or services that would enable our clients and prospects to better optimize their business opportunities or solve specific operational issues. In addition, we see few acquisition opportunities that would 7 expand our market or enable our entry into adjacent markets within the financial services industry that are fairly priced or that we could assimilate into our Company without material distractions. We have a solid track record of executing acquisitions from both a financial and operational standpoint, and we will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities that support our strategic direction, complement and accelerate our organic growth, and generate long-term profitable growth for our stockholders. While we seek to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, we will continue to explore alternative ways to leverage our cash position and balance sheet to the benefit of our stockholders, such as continued investment in new products and services for our clients, repurchases of our stock, and continued payment of dividends. Our most recent acquisition was: Fiscal Year Company or Product Name Products and Services 2023 Payrailz, LLC ("Payrailz") Provider of cloud-native modern digital payment capabilities leveraging AI and machine learning features for the financial services industry. Solutions Our core banking solutions support commercial banks with information and transaction processing platforms that provide enterprise-wide automation. We have three functionally distinct core bank processing systems and many fully integrated complementary/payment solutions, including business intelligence and bank management, retail and business banking, digital and mobile internet banking and electronic payment solutions, fraud and risk management and protection, account origination, and item and document imaging solutions. Our core banking solutions have state-of-the-art functional capabilities, and we can re-market the hardware required by on-premise use of each software system. Our banking solutions can be delivered on-premise or through our private cloud delivery model and are backed by a company-wide commitment to provide exceptional client support. Our core credit union solutions support credit unions of all sizes with an information and transaction processing platform that provides enterprise-wide automation. Our solution includes one flagship core processing system and many fully integrated complementary/payment solutions, including business intelligence and credit union management, accountholder and accountholder business services, digital and mobile internet banking and electronic payment solutions, fraud and risk management and protection, account origination, and item and document imaging solutions. Our credit union solution also has state-of-the-art functional capabilities. We also re-market the hardware required by on-premise use of the software system. Our credit union solution can be delivered on-premise, through our private cloud, or through our partner private cloud delivery models. Each is backed by our company-wide commitment to provide exceptional client support. Our non-core solutions for banks, credit unions, and diverse corporate entities are specialized products and services assembled primarily through our focused diversification acquisition strategy. These core-agnostic solutions are compatible with a wide variety of information technology platforms and operating environments and offer a large number of complementary/payment solutions, including proven solutions for generating additional revenue and growth, increasing security and mitigating operational risks, and/or controlling operating costs. Our non-core products and services enhance the performance of banks and credit unions of all asset sizes and charters, and diverse corporate entities. These distinct products and services can be implemented individually or as solution suites to address specific business problems or needs and enable effective responses to dynamic industry trends. We are committed to developing and maintaining modern and integrated solutions supported by high service levels. We continuously update and improve these solutions through an interactive client enhancement process, ensuring compliance with relevant regulations, and incorporating proven advances in technology. Our goal is to uphold our Company's reputation as a premium solution and service provider. Core Software Systems Core software systems primarily consist of the integrated applications required to process deposit, loan, and general ledger transactions, and to maintain centralized accountholder information. Our core banking solutions consist of three software systems marketed to banks, and our core credit union solution consists of one software system marketed to credit unions. These core systems are available for on-premise installation at client sites, or banks and credit unions can choose to leverage our private cloud environment for ongoing information processing. 8 Core banking platforms are: SilverLake System, a robust system primarily designed for commercial-focused banks that currently serves banks with assets ranging from $1 billion to over $55 billion. Some progressive smaller banks and de novo (start-up) banks also select SilverLake. This system is in use by 520 banks, and now serves nearly 12% of the domestic banks in the $55 billion and under asset range. CIF 20/20, a parameter-driven, easy-to-use system that now supports 260 banks ranging from de novo institutions to those with assets of $6 billion. Core Director, a cost-efficient system with point-and-click operation that now supports over 170 banks ranging from de novo institutions to those with assets of $2 billion. Core credit union platform is: Symitar (formerly known as Episys), a robust system designed specifically for credit unions. It has been implemented by approximately 715 credit unions with assets ranging from $20 million to $33 billion, and according to National Credit Union Administration ("NCUA") data, is the system implemented by more credit unions with assets exceeding $25 million than any other credit union core system. Clients electing to install our solutions on-premise license the proprietary software systems. The majority of these clients pay ongoing annual software maintenance fees. We re-market the hardware, hardware maintenance, and peripheral equipment that is required by on-premise use of our software solutions; and we perform software implementation, data conversion, training, ongoing support, and other related services. On-premise clients generally license our core software systems under a standard license agreement that provides a fully paid, nonexclusive, nontransferable right to use the software on a single computer at a single location. Clients can eliminate the significant up-front capital expenditures required by on-premise installations and the responsibility for operating information and transaction processing infrastructures by leveraging our private cloud environment for those functions. Our core private cloud services are provided through a highly resilient data center configuration across multiple physical locations. We also provide image item processing services from two host/archive sites and several key entry and balancing locations throughout the country. We print and mail accountholder statements for banks and credit unions from three regional printing and rendering centers. Clients electing to outsource their core processing typically sign contracts for six years that include "per account" fees and minimum guaranteed payments during the contract period. We are dedicated to meeting the evolving business needs of our core bank and credit union clients by continuously enhancing each core system, introducing new integrated complementary products regularly, integrating practical new technologies, and adhering to regulatory compliance initiatives. Additionally, we serve as a single point of contact for each core client for support and accountability. Complementary Products and Services We have a large number of complementary/payment products and services that are targeted to our core banks and credit unions. Many of these are selectively sold to banks and credit unions that use other core processing systems. These complementary/payment solutions enable core bank and credit union clients to respond to evolving accountholder demands, expedite speed-to-market with competitive offerings, increase efficiency, address specific operational needs, and generate new revenue streams. The highly specialized solutions enable diverse banks, credit unions, and corporate entities to generate additional revenue and growth opportunities, increase security, mitigate operational risks, and control operating costs. We regularly introduce new products and services based on demand for integrated complementary/payment solutions from our existing core clients and based on the growing demand among banks, credit unions, and corporate entities for specialized solutions capable of increasing revenue and growth opportunities, mitigating and controlling operational risks, and/or containing costs. Our Industry Research department solicits client guidance on the business solutions they need, evaluates available solutions and competitive offerings, and manages the introduction of new product offerings. Our new complementary/payment products and services are developed internally, acquired, or provided through strategic alliances. Implementation and Training Most of our core bank and credit union clients contract with us for implementation and training services in connection with their systems and additional complementary products. A complete core system implementation typically includes detailed planning, project management, data conversion, and testing. Our experienced implementation teams travel to client facilities or work remotely with clients to help 9 manage the implementation process and ensure that all data is transferred from the legacy system to the Jack Henry system. Our implementation fees are fixed or hourly based on the core system being installed. We also provide extensive initial and ongoing education to our clients. We have a comprehensive training program that supports new clients with basic training and longtime clients with continuing education. The training enables banks and credit unions to maximize the use of our core and complementary solutions, learn about ongoing system enhancements, and understand evolving legislative and regulatory requirements. Support and Services We serve our core clients as a single point of contact and support for the solutions we provide. Our comprehensive support infrastructure incorporates: High service standards. Trained support staff available up to 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Assigned account team. Sophisticated support tools, resources, and technology. Broad experience converting diverse banks and credit unions to our core platforms from competitive platforms. Highly effective change management and control processes. Best practices methodology developed and refined through the company-wide, day-to-day experience. Most on-premise clients contract for annual software support services, and this represents a significant source of recurring revenue for Jack Henry. These support services are typically priced at approximately 20% of the respective products software license fee. The subsequent years' service fees generally increase as client assets increase and as additional complementary products are purchased. Annual software support fees typically are billed during June and are paid in advance for the entire fiscal year, with proration for new product implementations that occur during the fiscal year. Hardware support fees also are usually paid in advance for entire contract periods which typically range from one to five years. Most support contracts automatically renew unless the client or Jack Henry gives notice of termination at least 30 days prior to contract expiration. High levels of support are provided to our private cloud clients by the same support infrastructure utilized for on-premise clients. However, these support fees are included as part of monthly private cloud fees. Hardware Systems Our software systems operate on a variety of hardware platforms. We have established remarketing agreements with IBM Corporation, and many other hardware providers that allow Jack Henry to purchase hardware and related maintenance services at a discount and resell them directly to our clients. We currently sell IBM Power Systems; Lenovo, Dell, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Cisco servers and workstations; Canon, Digital Check, Epson, and Panini check scanners; and other devices that complement our software solutions. Digital Products and Services Jack Henry Digital provides a unified platform of digital products and services, anchored by the Banno Digital Platform. This native and browser-based banking solution empowers community and regional banks and credit unions to strategically enhance their digital offerings and compete effectively with larger banks and tech companies. It's a comprehensive business and retail open platform delivering attractive, fast, cloud-native applications for accountholders and cloud-based, core-connected back-office tools for employees. Our treasury platform is a separate digital product that services the needs of banks' and credit unions' larger commercial customers. Payment Solutions Electronic payment solutions provide our clients with the tools necessary to be at the forefront of payment innovation with secure payment processing designed to simplify complex payment processing, attract profitable retail and commercial accounts, increase operating efficiencies, comply with regulatory mandates, and proactively mitigate and manage payment-related risk. JHA Card Processing Solutions ("CPS") supports full-service and in-house debit and credit card programs, as well as an agent credit option, backed by a comprehensive suite of tools for 24/7 fraud mitigation, digital payments, full-service dispute management, plastics manufacturing and personalization, loyalty programs, data analytics, and ATM terminal driving. In addition, advisory services are offered to support a variety of needs including card portfolio growth, start-up program consultation, as well as customized fraud management; all tailored to individual bank and credit union goals and concerns. Enterprise Payment Solutions ("EPS") is a comprehensive payments engine, offering an integrated suite of Automated Clearing House ("ACH"), instant payments, credit card, and remote deposit capture processing that 10 includes supporting tools for accounts receivable posting, risk management, reporting, and application interfaces ("APIs") for banks, credit unions, businesses, and fintechs of all sizes. EPS helps clients succeed in todays competitive market to increase revenue, improve efficiencies, better manage compliance, and enhance accountholder relationships. PayrailzTM Payments Platform provides consumers and businesses with money movement options through their bank's or credit union's digital platforms. It supports our technology modernization strategy by providing next-generation, cloud-native digital payment capabilities to our payment ecosystem. This money movement payments platform incorporates artificial intelligence ("AI") to make predictive and proactive recommendations, a flexible modern user experience, a layered security model, an automated fraud feature powered by machine learning, and a contemporary, adaptable administrative portal. In addition to bill payment capabilities, we provide a 'pay a loan' feature, an 'open looped' real-time person-to-person ("P2P") solution, and account-to-account ("A2A") transfer features. The array of money movement options maintains consumer and business engagement with the bank or credit union. JHA PayCenterTM provides banks and credit unions with a single entry point to both Zelle and Real Time Payments ("RTP") networks, and the Federal Reserve's FedNow network. PayCenter manages the certification process and mandatory updates from the networks, simplifies integration with toolkits, and provides fraud monitoring. Banks and credit unions can send and receive transactions instantly 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, through our core and complementary solutions. Payments as a Service ("PaaS") supports embedded payment capabilities and ties together and further enhances the complete array of electronic payments functionality with a front-end Payments Developers Experience Portal, APIs, and back-end data analytics. Research and Development We invest significant resources in ongoing research and development to build new software solutions and services and enhance existing solutions with additional functionality and features required to ensure regulatory compliance. We enhance our core and complementary systems a minimum of once each year. Product-specific enhancements are largely client-driven with recommended opportunities formally gathered through focus groups, change control boards, strategic initiatives meetings, annual user group meetings, and ongoing client contact. We also continually evaluate and implement process improvements that expedite the delivery of new products and enhancements to our clients and reduce related costs. Research and development expenses (in thousands) for fiscal 2025, 2024, and 2023 were $162,771, $148,256, and $142,678, respectively. We recorded capitalized software (in thousands) in fiscal 2025, 2024, and 2023 of $172,445, $167,175, and $166,120, respectively. Sales and Marketing We serve established, well-defined markets that provide ongoing sales and cross-sell opportunities. The marketing and sales initiatives within the core business lines are primarily focused on identifying banks and credit unions evaluating alternative core information and transaction processing solutions. Our non-core specialized core-agnostic niche solutions are sold to complement existing technology platforms to banks and credit unions of all asset sizes and charters. Sales executives are responsible for the activities required to earn new clients in assigned territories, and regional account executives are responsible for nurturing client relationships and cross selling additional products and services. Our sales professionals receive base salaries and performance-based commission compensation. Sales support staff provide a variety of services, including product and service demonstrations, responses to prospect-issued requests-for-proposals, and proposal and contract generation. Our marketing department supports sales with lead generation and brand-building activities, including participation in state-specific, regional, and national trade shows; print and online advertising; client newsletters; ongoing promotional campaigns; and media relations. We also host an annual national education conference, which provides opportunities to network with existing clients and demonstrate new products and services. Jack Henry has sold select products and services outside the United States, primarily in Latin America, the Caribbean and Canada. International sales accounted for less than 1% of Jack Henrys total revenue in each of fiscal 2025, 2024, and 2023. Competition The market for companies providing technology solutions to financial services organizations is competitive, and we expect that competition from both existing competitors and companies entering our existing or future markets will remain strong. Some of our current competitors have longer operating histories, larger client bases, and greater 11 financial resources. The principal competitive factors affecting the market for technology solutions include culture, service, innovation, strategy, and execution, along with product/service functionality, price, operating flexibility, and ease-of-use. For more than a decade, there has been significant consolidation among providers of products and services designed for banks and credit unions, and this consolidation is expected to continue in the future. Our core solutions compete with large vendors that provide information and transaction processing solutions to banks and credit unions, including Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.; Fiserv, Inc.; Corelation, Inc.; and Finastra. Our non-core specialized solutions compete with an array of disparate vendors that provide niche solutions to financial services organizations and corporate entities. Intellectual Property, Patents, and Trademarks Although we believe our success depends upon our technical expertise more than our proprietary rights, our future success and ability to compete depend in part upon our proprietary technology. We have registered or filed applications for our primary trademarks. Most of our technology is not patented. Instead, we rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our associates, consultants, resellers, clients, and prospects. Access to and distribution of our Companys source code is restricted, and the disclosure and use of other proprietary information is further limited. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties can attempt to copy or otherwise obtain, or use our products or technology. Regulatory Compliance Jack Henry maintains a corporate commitment to address compliance issues and implement requirements imposed by federal regulators prior to the effective date of such requirements when adequate prior notice is given. Our compliance program is coordinated by a team of qualified compliance professionals with extensive regulatory agency and financial institution experience, knowledge and understanding of Federal consumer protection regulations, and a thorough working knowledge of Jack Henry and our solutions. These compliance professionals leverage multiple channels to remain informed about potential and recently enacted regulatory requirements, including discussions on emerging topics with the Federal Banking Agencies (FBA), and training sessions sponsored by various professional associations. We have processes in place to inform internal stakeholders of new and revised regulatory requirements. Upcoming regulatory changes also are presented to the Companys development teams through periodic regulatory compliance meetings and the necessary product changes are included in the ongoing product development cycle. We publish newsletters to keep our clients informed of regulatory changes that could impact their operations. Periodically, client advisory groups are assembled to discuss significant regulatory changes. Internal audits of our systems, networks, operations, business recovery plans, and applications are conducted and specialized outside firms are periodically engaged to perform testing and validation of our systems, processes, plans, and security. The FBA conducts ongoing examinations of the Company and issues Reports of Examination. The Board of Directors provides oversight of these activities through the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee. Government Regulation The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. All financial institutions are subject to substantial regulatory oversight and supervision. Our products and services must comply with the extensive and evolving regulatory requirements applicable to our clients, including but not limited to those mandated by federal truth-in-lending and truth-in-savings rules, the Privacy of Consumer Financial Information regulations, usury laws, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Community Reinvestment Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The compliance of Jack Henrys products and services with these requirements depends on a variety of factors, including the parameters set through the interactive design, the classification of clients, and the manner in which the client utilizes the products and services. Our clients are contractually responsible for assessing and determining what is required of them under these regulations and then we provide solutions that assist them in meeting their regulatory needs through our products and services. We cannot predict the impact these regulations, any future amendments to these regulations or any newly implemented regulations will have on our business in the future. Jack Henry is not chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency ("OCC"), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the FDIC, the NCUA or other federal or state agencies that regulate or supervise depository institutions. However, operating as a service provider to banks and credit unions, Jack Henrys operations are governed by the same regulatory requirements as those imposed on financial institutions, and 12 subject to periodic reviews by FBA regulators who have broad supervisory authority to remedy any shortcomings identified in such reviews. Jack Henry is also subject to periodic examinations by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which provides supervision and enforcement related to federal consumer financial laws applicable to some products and services offered by our clients. We provide private cloud services through Jack Henry Processing Services for banks and EASE Processing Services for credit unions. We provide data centers and electronic transaction processing through JHA Card Processing Solutions, internet banking through NetTeller and BannoTM online solutions, bill payment through our PayrailzTM Payments Platform, network security monitoring and Hosted Network Solutions ("HNS") through our Gladiator unit, cloud services through Hosted Partner Services and Enterprise Integration Services, and business recovery services through Centurion Disaster Recovery. Our private cloud services are subject to examination by FBA regulators under the Bank Service Company Act. These examinations cover a wide variety of subjects, including system development, functionality, reliability, and security, as well as disaster preparedness and business recovery planning. Our private cloud services are also subject to examination by state banking authorities on occasion. Human Capital Our Associates As of June 30, 2025, Jack Henry had approximately 7,240 full-time and part-time associates. Our associates are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement and there have been no labor-related work stoppages. Talent Attraction and Engagement Our people and culture strategy is focused on attracting, engaging, and retaining associates that are qualified and innovative with future-ready technical skills. We are an equal opportunity employer and are committed to considering all qualified candidates for employment. We seek non-traditional talent streams to help identify candidates from underrepresented groups. Our internship attracts college and university students, and our apprenticeship program offers paid training and work for candidates with little to no traditional experience, such as computer coding. Both programs can lead to full-time employment. We are committed to fostering a respectful and inclusive workplace where all individuals are treated with respect and dignity, and we focus on ensuring all associates feel they belong at Jack Henry. Business Innovation Groups ("BIGs"), which are open to all associates, help us to foster a culture of inclusion and belonging. These groups provide input and suggestions to address business problems and offer education and training to foster inclusion and belonging. As of June 30, 2025, we had over 1,770 unique associates and nearly2,810 combined associates participating in six active BIGs. A significant portion of the Companys associates work remotely on either a full-time or hybrid remote/office basis. The Company remains focused on equipping all associates with the tools necessary to effectively communicate, collaborate, and build connections in a remote environment, including ensuring leaders have the skills needed to effectively lead dispersed teams. We seek to actively listen to our associates throughout the year using a defined and continuous listening strategy designed to gather regular feedback on well-being, engagement, leadership, ethics, culture and values, satisfaction, and sense of belonging, through channels such as our annual engagement survey, pulse surveys, skip-a-level interviews, and town halls. This comprehensive strategy allow us to respond to associate concerns, benefit from associate perspectives, and better design and develop processes to support our Company culture. Associates can learn about changes through our internal online news center, regular email communications, monthly Manager Forum events, quarterly associate update videos, or all-associate town hall meetings delivered by senior management. Learning and Development Our success depends not only on attracting and retaining talented associates, but also in developing our current associates and providing new opportunities for their growth. We offer our associates numerous live and on-demand courses, resources, and training programs to help them build knowledge, improve skills, and develop their career at Jack Henry. Learning opportunities include mandatory courses, as well as recommended content in areas such as leadership development, technical skills, business acumen, innovation, and change management. Jack Tracks, an annual, company-wide virtual learning event, offers associates a large selection of curated topics such as technical and operational readiness, technology trends, company solutions, and industry trends. Recognizing the importance of mentoring in career development, we host an internal mentorship marketplace, which allows prospective mentors and mentees to connect and self-initiate a mentoring relationship. Career mobility 13 and personal development resources are available to all associates through dedicated intranet sites including an internal career website where associates can explore new opportunities, register their skills, and view salary ranges. We continue to strengthen our leadership capacity by providing training on effective coaching practices to leaders of the Company. We recognize and value the contribution of our associates who develop, improve, and support our technology solutions. Access to on-demand technical training libraries, customized learning plans, certification programs, and classes facilitated by external experts are available to advance their technical expertise. When there is a critical skill need or where the technology landscape is rapidly changing, we provide unique learning solutions to align associates' development with our strategic initiatives. Wellness and Safety We emphasize the safety and well-being of our associates as a top priority. We define wellness holistically and include mental, physical, emotional, financial, psychological, and environmental considerations. Our benefit plan offerings include supportive and dedicated campaigns that communicate directly to associates about financial wellness, mental health, healthful nutrition and exercise, and other wellness topics. Associate well-being is further supported through policies such as remote work, paid parental leave, military service leave, educational assistance, and bereavement leave policies, as well as paid time off, adoption assistance, an employee assistance program, wellness incentives, and paid community volunteer hours. Available Information Jack Henrys website is easily accessible to the public at jackhenry.com. The Investor Relations" portion of the website provides key corporate governance documents, the code of conduct, an archive of press releases, and other relevant Company information. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other filings and amendments thereto that are made with the SEC also are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practical after these reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at https://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company's business and the results of its operations are affected by numerous factors and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those expected or desired. Business and Operating Risks Data security breaches, failures, or other incidents could damage our reputation and business. Our business relies upon receiving, processing, storing, and transmitting sensitive information relating to our operations, associates, and clients. If we fail to maintain a sufficient digital security infrastructure, address security vulnerabilities and new threats, or deploy adequate technologies to secure our systems against attack, we may be subject to security breaches that compromise confidential information, including valuable intellectual property, proprietary information, trade secrets, know-how, or source code, which could lead to their theft, misuse, unauthorized disclosure, or misappropriation. Such incidents could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, damage our reputation and business, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and expose us to liability. We rely on third parties for various business purposes, and these third parties face similar security risks. A security failure by one of these third parties could expose our data or subject our information systems to interruption of operations and security vulnerabilities. Our information systems rely on hardware, software, and other technological elements, whether developed in-house or provided by third parties, that occasionally need to be patched or updated to address existing or potential security vulnerabilities. If these vulnerabilities are not remediated in a timely manner, our systems and data may be at risk of compromise or interruption. Our services and infrastructure are increasingly reliant on the internet. Computer networks and the internet are vulnerable to disruptive problems such as denial of service attacks or other cyber-attacks carried out by cyber criminals or state-sponsored actors. We are continually subject to attempts by unauthorized parties to access confidential information or to destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses, ransomware or malware, and cyber-attacks. The use of artificial intelligence increasingly enabling their sophistication and accelerating their evolution, including through automated phishing and the rapid development of new malware, which continue to evolve and can be difficult to detect. Those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce associates, clients, vendors, or other authorized users of our systems through phishing schemes or other social 14 engineering methods to disclose sensitive information to gain access to our data or that of our clients or their accountholders. Any such coordinated attacks, if successful, can lead to data loss and exfiltration, disruption to systems and services, and damage to our reputation as a secure financial technology company. We are also subject to the risk that our associates may, unintentionally or with malicious intent, intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information or that corporate-owned computers used by associates are stolen, or client data media is lost in shipment. An interception, misuse, or mishandling of personal, confidential, or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Like other financial institution service providers, we continually face third-party attempts to discover and exploit system weaknesses or to circumvent our security measures. We anticipate that attempts to attack our systems, services, and infrastructure, and those of our clients, third-party service providers and other vendors, will grow in frequency and sophistication. We cannot be certain that our security controls and infrastructure will be adequate to continue to protect our systems and data and our efforts may not be sufficient to combat all current and future technological risks and threats. These risks are further heightened by the fact that a significant portion of our associates and contractors work remotely outside of Company-controlled facilities using networks and devices that are not physically controlled by the Company, potentially limiting the effectiveness of our security controls. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, the use of artificial intelligence, or other events or developments may render our security measures inadequate. Security risks may result in liability to our clients or other third parties, damage to our reputation, and may deter financial institutions from purchasing our products. The significant amount of capital and other resources we currently expend to protect against the threat of security breaches may prove insufficient to prevent a breach. We cannot ensure that any limitation-of-liability provisions in our client and user agreements, contracts with third-party vendors, or other contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to claims relating to a security breach or similar matters. The insurance coverage we maintain to address data security risks may be insufficient to cover all types of claims or losses that may arise, and there is no assurance that such insurance coverage will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In the event of a security breach, we may need to spend substantial additional capital and resources alleviating problems caused by such breach. Under state, federal, and foreign laws, including those requiring consumer notification of security breaches, the costs to remediate security breaches can be substantial. Addressing security problems may result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service to users, any of which could harm our business. Failure to maintain sufficient technological infrastructure or an operational failure in our outsourcing facilities could expose us to damage claims, increase regulatory scrutiny, and cause us to lose clients. Our products and services require substantial investments in technological infrastructure, and we have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions, and data that our technological infrastructure supports. If we fail to adequately invest in and support our technological infrastructure and processing capacity, we may not be able to support our clients processing needs and may be more susceptible to interruptions and delays in services. Damage or destruction that interrupts our outsourcing operations could cause delays and failures in processing which could hurt our relationship with clients, damage our reputation, expose us to damage claims, and cause us to incur substantial additional expenses to relocate operations and repair or replace damaged equipment. Events that could cause operational failures include, but are not limited to, hardware and software defects, breakdowns or malfunctions, cybersecurity incidents, human error, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. Our facilities are also subject to physical risks related to natural disasters or severe weather events, such as tornados, flooding, hurricanes, and heat waves. Climate change may increase the likelihood and severity of such events. Our back-up systems and procedures may prove insufficient or otherwise fail to prevent disruption, such as a prolonged interruption of our transaction processing services. If an interruption extends for more than several hours, we may experience data loss or a reduction in revenues due to such interruption. Any significant interruption of service could reduce revenue, have a negative impact on our reputation and the reputation of our clients, result in damage claims, lead our present and potential clients to choose other service providers, and lead to increased regulatory scrutiny of the critical services we provide to financial institutions, with resulting increases in compliance burdens and costs. Implementing modifications and upgrades to our technological infrastructure subjects us to inherent costs and risks associated with changing systems, policies, procedures, and monitoring tools. 15 Failures associated with payment transactions could result in financial loss. The volume and dollar amount of payment transactions that we process is significant and continues to grow. We direct the settlement of funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses, and consumers, and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks, and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments, real-time payments through faster payment networks (such as Zelle, RTP, and FedNow), and check clearing that support consumers, financial institutions, and other businesses. If the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised in connection with payments transactions, we could suffer financial as well as reputational loss. In addition, we rely on various third parties to process transactions and provide services in support of the processing of transactions and funds settlement for certain of our products and services that we cannot provide ourselves. If we are unable to obtain such services in the future or if the price of such services becomes unsustainable, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may issue short-term credit to consumers, financial institutions, or other businesses as part of the funds settlement process. A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. Failures of third-party service providers we rely upon could lead to financial loss. We rely on third-party service providers to support key portions of our operations. We also rely on third-party service providers to provide part, or all, of certain services we deliver to clients. As we continue to move more computing, storage, and processing services out of our data centers and facilities and into third-party hosting environments, our reliance on these providers and their systems will increase. This reliance is further concentrated as we use certain third-party vendors to provide large portions of our hosting needs. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. A failure of these services by a third party could have a material impact upon our delivery of services to our clients. Such a failure could lead to damage claims, loss of clients, and reputational harm, depending on the duration and severity of the failure. Third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. These third-party vendors are subject to similar risks as us including, but not limited to, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, hardware and software defects, breakdowns or malfunctions, cybersecurity incidents, human error, failures in internal controls, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, computer viruses or other malware, natural disasters or severe weather events, or other events. One or more of our vendors may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by the third-party vendor. Certain of our vendors may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. If a critical vendor is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such a vendor are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products timely and cost-effectively, our clients could be negatively impacted, and it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate in a competitive business environment and our business will be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively. We vigorously compete with a variety of software vendors and service providers in all our major product lines. We compete on the basis of product quality, reliability, performance, ease of use, quality of support and services, integration with other products, and pricing. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their size, product lines, greater marketing resources, or exclusive intellectual property rights. New competitors, including smaller start-ups, regularly appear with new products, services, and technology for financial institutions. If competitors offer more favorable pricing, payment or other contractual terms, warranties, or functionality, or otherwise attract our clients or prevent us from capturing new clients, we may need to lower prices or offer other terms that negatively impact our results of operations in order to successfully compete. Failure to achieve favorable renewals of service contracts could negatively affect our business. Our contracts with our clients for outsourced data processing and electronic payment transaction processing services generally run for a period of six years. We will continue to experience a significant number of these contracts coming up for renewal each year. Renewal time presents our clients with the opportunity to consider other providers or to renegotiate their contracts with us, including reducing the services we provide or negotiating the prices paid for our services. Certain of our renewals have resulted in price compression between the former and renegotiated contracts. If that trend accelerates or becomes more pronounced, it could negatively impact our results of operations. If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates upon favorable terms, revenues and profit margins will suffer. We may experience increased costs for services from our third-party vendors due to inflation or other cost expansion, but because our client contracts typically have longer terms than our vendor contracts, our ability to pass on those higher costs to clients may be limited. If inflation or costs outpace our contractual ability to adjust pricing during the contractual terms of our client contracts, our revenues and profit margins could be negatively impacted. 16 If we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology and the markets we serve, we could lose existing clients and be unable to attract new business. The markets for our products and services are characterized by changing client and regulatory requirements and rapid technological changes. These factors and new product introductions by our existing competitors or by new market entrants could reduce the demand for our existing products and services, and we may be required to develop or acquire new products and services. Our future success is dependent on our ability to enhance our existing products and services in a timely manner and to develop or acquire new products and services. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products and services to address the needs of our clients, or if we fail to sell the new or enhanced products and services in which we have invested, we may incur unanticipated expenses or fail to achieve anticipated revenues, as well as lose prospective sales. The increasing adoption of artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and generative artificial intelligence into our products introduces significant and evolving risks that could lead to unintended consequences, result in reputational harm, and increased litigation. Our business currently utilizes AI and ML and we continue to evaluate and expand their use, including generative AI, to augment our products and services. While these technologies offer distinct business opportunities, they also bring evolving legal, regulatory, and operational risks. Both state and federal regulations relating to these emerging technologies are quickly and constantly evolving and may require significant resources to modify and maintain business practices to comply with U.S. laws, the nature of which cannot be determined at this time. From an operational standpoint, AI algorithms and training methodologies may create accuracy issues, unintended biases, factual errors, misrepresentations, offensive language, inappropriate statements, or other unexpected outcomes that could undermine product and service quality or lead to errors in our decision-making and solution development. Ineffective or inadequate AI development, testing, evaluation, deployment, content labeling, or governance may impair public acceptance or cause harm, resulting in offerings not working as intended, and we also face explainability risk from our potential inability to interpret or justify AI model decisions, which may lead to concerns about trust, regulatory compliance, and accountability. Additionally, the use of AI tools by associateswhether authorized or notfor internal functions or business operations may result in unintended or unreliable outputs, which could negatively impact the quality, accuracy, or consistency of work product and decision-making. Our failure to accurately identify and address our responsibilities and liabilities in this new environment could negatively affect any solutions we develop incorporating such technology and could subject us to reputational harm, regulatory action, or litigation, which may harm our financial condition and operating results. These same risks apply to our third-party service providers who are implementing these tools into the products or services they provide to us. Any failures to manage and mitigate these risks by these third-party service providers may negatively affect the products and services we provide our clients. Software defects or problems with installations and updates may harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects, especially in connection with newly released products and software updates. Software defects may cause interruptions or delays to our services as we attempt to correct the problem. We may also experience difficulties in installing or integrating our products on systems used by our clients. Defects in our software, installation problems or delays, or other difficulties could result in negative publicity, loss of revenues, loss of competitive position, or claims against us by clients. In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors or defects that could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. If patches or updates are not properly tested prior to installation, or are not properly installed, our systems and data may be at risk of compromise or interruption as a result of such failures. Expansion of services to non-traditional clients could expose us to new risks. We have expanded our services to business lines that are marketed outside our traditional, regulated, and litigation-averse base of financial institution clients. These non-regulated clients may entail greater operational, credit, and litigation risks than we have faced before and could result in increases in bad debts and litigation costs. Regulatory and Compliance Risks The software and services we provide to our clients are subject to government regulation that could hinder the development of our business, increase costs, or impose constraints on the way we conduct our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. As a supplier of software and services to financial institutions, portions of our operations are subject to ongoing supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the National Credit Union Association, among other regulatory agencies. These agencies regulate services we provide and the way we operate, and we are required to comply with a broad range of applicable federal and state laws and regulations. We are routinely subject to the examination process with such regulators, which includes the identification of areas where we can improve our practices to better comply with the applicable regulations and guidelines. If regulators 17 identify significant issues, or if we fail to meet supervisory remediation expectations, we could be subject to regulatory actions that could harm our client relationships and reputation. Failure by third parties, with whom we contract or partner, to comply with regulations or guidelines could also harm our relationships and reputation. Such failures could require significant expenditures to correct and could negatively affect our ability to retain clients and obtain new clients. In addition, existing laws, regulations, and policies could be amended or interpreted differently by regulators in a manner that imposes additional costs and has a negative impact on our existing operations or that limits our future growth or expansion. New regulations could require additional programming or other costly changes in our processes or personnel. Our clients are also regulated entities, and actions by regulatory authorities could influence both the decisions they make concerning the purchase of data processing and other services and the timing and implementation of these decisions. We will be required to apply substantial research and development and other corporate resources to adapt our products to this evolving, complex, and often unpredictable regulatory environment. Our failure to provide compliant solutions could result in significant fines or consumer liability on our clients, for which we may bear ultimate liability. Compliance with new and existing data privacy and cybersecurity laws, regulations, and rules may adversely impact our expenses, development, and strategy. We are subject to complex laws, rules, and regulations related to data privacy and cybersecurity. If we fail to comply with such requirements, we could be subject to reputational harm, regulatory enforcement, and litigation. The use, confidentiality, and security of private client information is under increased scrutiny. Regulatory agencies, Congress, state legislatures, and foreign regulatory and governmental bodies are considering numerous regulatory and statutory proposals to protect the interests of consumers and to require compliance with standards and policies that have not been defined. The number of state privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations has grown tremendously over the past several years, resulting in an increasingly complex and fragmented regulatory landscape. These laws often include industry-specific requirements and board consumer data protection obligations. While many of these frameworks share common principles each jurisdiction imposes unique compliance standards, definitions, and obligations that may not align with one another. This lack of uniformity, combined with frequent legislative updates and regulatory amendments, creates ongoing challenges for organizations seeking to maintain consistent and compliant data governance practices across multiple jurisdictions. Further, the FTC and state attorneys general may interpret federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. In addition, compliance with these laws and regulations may require changes to our technology and our internal processes and procedures, including the way that we handle, process, and store data, which could divert company resources and negatively impact growth opportunities. We will also be affected by these regulations as a third-party provider to clients who are subject to such regulations and will seek our assistance in their compliance efforts. Failure to comply or readily address compliance and regulatory rule changes made by payment card networks could adversely affect our business. We are subject to card association and network compliance rules governing the payment networks we serve, including Visa, MasterCard, Zelle, FedNow, and The Clearing Houses RTP network, and all rules governing the Payment Card Data Security Standards. If we fail to comply with these rules and standards, we could be fined or our certifications could be suspended or terminated, which could limit our ability to service our clients and result in reductions in revenues and increased costs of operations. Changes made by the networks, even when complied with, may result in reduction in revenues and increased costs of operations. Economic Conditions Risks Natural disasters, public health crises, wars, acts of terrorism, other armed conflict, and workforce shortages could adversely affect our results of operations. The occurrence of, or threat of, natural disasters, widespread public health crises, political unrest, war, acts of terrorism, other armed conflicts involving the United States or foreign countries, or general workforce shortages can result in significant economic disruptions and uncertainties and could adversely affect our business, results of operation, and financial condition. The conditions caused by such events may affect the rate of spending by our clients and their ability to pay for our products and services, delay prospective clients purchasing decisions, interfere with our associates ability to support our business function, disrupt the ability of third-party providers we rely upon to deliver services, adversely impact our ability to provide on-site services or installations to our clients, or reduce the number of transactions we process, all of which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial position. We are unable to accurately predict the impact of such events on our business due to a number of uncertainties, including the duration, severity, geographic reach and governmental responses to such events, the impact on our clients and vendors' operations, and our ability to continue to provide products and services, including the ability of our associates to work remotely. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business will be harmed. 18 Our business may be adversely impacted by general U.S. and global market and economic conditions or specific conditions in the financial services industry. We derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. If the general economic environment worsens, including if inflation or interest rates continue to increase or remain at higher than recent historical levels, or if conditions or regulatory requirements within the financial services industry changesuch as if financial institutions are required to increase reserve amounts, become subject to new regulatory assessments, or if tariffs or other trade restrictions are imposed or increasedclients may be less willing or able to pay the cost of our products and services, and we could face a reduction in demand from current and potential clients for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, a growing portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees, which depend heavily on levels of consumer and business spending. Deterioration in general economic conditions could negatively impact consumer confidence and spending, resulting in reduced transaction volumes and our related revenues. Consolidation and failures of financial institutions will continue to reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. Our primary market consists of approximately 4,440commercial and savings banks and more than 4,550credit unions. The number of commercial banks and credit unions in the United States has experienced a steady decrease over recent decades due to mergers and acquisitions and financial failures and we expect this trend to continue as more consolidation occurs. Such events may reduce the number of our current and potential clients, which could negatively impact our results of operations. A client who merges with, or is acquired by, an entity that is not our client, or a client that is closed by regulatory action, can lead to a reduction or loss of services and negatively impact our results of operation. Acquisition Risks Our growth may be affected if we are unable to find or complete suitable acquisitions. We have augmented the growth of our business with a number of acquisitions and we plan to continue to acquire appropriate businesses, products, and services. This strategy depends on our ability to identify, negotiate, and finance suitable acquisitions. Merger and acquisition activity in our industry has affected the availability and pricing of such acquisitions. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. Acquisitions subject us to risks and may be costly and difficult to integrate. Acquisitions are difficult to evaluate, and our due diligence may not identify all potential liabilities or valuation issues. We may also be subject to risks related to cybersecurity incidents or vulnerabilities of the acquired company and the acquired systems. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired companies. We may encounter problems with the integration of new businesses, including: financial control and computer system compatibility; unanticipated costs and liabilities; unanticipated quality or client problems with acquired products or services; differing regulatory and industry standards; diversion of management's attention; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and clients; loss of key associates; and significant depreciation and amortization expenses related to acquired assets. To finance future acquisitions, we may have to increase our borrowing or sell equity or debt securities to the public. If we fail to integrate our acquisitions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failed acquisitions could also produce material and unpredictable impairment charges as we review our acquired assets. Intellectual Property Risks If others claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, we could be liable for significant damages or could be required to change our processes. We have agreed to indemnify many of our clients against claims that our products and services infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We also use certain open- source software in our products, which may subject us to suits by persons claiming ownership of what we believe to be open-source software. Infringement claims have been and will in the future be asserted with regard to our software solutions and services. Such claims, whether with or without merit, are time-consuming, may result in costly litigation and may not be resolved on terms favorable to us. If our defense of such claims is not successful, we could be forced to pay damages or could be subject to injunctions that would cause us to cease making or selling certain applications or force us to redesign applications. Our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may adversely affect our competitive position. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon protecting our proprietary systems and technology. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or access systems or technology that we consider proprietary. We actively take steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, including entering into agreements with users of our services for that purpose and maintaining security measures. However, these steps may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult and misappropriation or litigation relating to such matters could have a material negative effect on our results of operation. 19 General Risk Factors A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to mitigate risk of fraud. If material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations or financial condition, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require us to expend significant resources to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies, subject us to fines, penalties or judgments, harm our reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence. The loss of key associates and difficulties in hiring and retaining associates could adversely affect our business. We depend on the contributions and abilities of our senior management and other key associates. Our Company has grown significantly in recent years and our management remains concentrated in a small number of highly qualified individuals. If we lose one or more of our key associates, we could suffer a loss of managerial experience, and management resources would have to be diverted from other activities to compensate for this loss. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. We continue to face a competitive market for hiring and retaining skilled associates. Difficulties in hiring and retaining skilled associates may restrict our ability to adequately support our business needs and/or result in increased personnel costs. These challenges are further compounded by the fact that a substantial portion of our workforce operate in hybrid or fully remote arrangements, which introduces additional complexities related to employee engagement, collaboration, training, and the preservation of corporate culture. As we navigate these dynamics, there is no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary to maintain the Companys strategic direction. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. Our income tax positions result in a significant net deferred income tax liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Unfavorable future tax law changes, including increasing U.S. corporate tax rates, could increase this net liability and negatively impact our provision for income taxes, net income, and cash flow. The impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and intangible assets would adversely affect our results of operations. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent a significant portion of our total assets as of June 30, 2025. On an annual basis, and whenever circumstances require, we review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment. If the carrying value of a material asset is determined to be impaired, it will be written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our operating results. Changes in interest rates could increase our borrowing costs or result in decreased interest income. Although our debt borrowing levels have historically been low, we may require additional or increased borrowings in the future under existing or new debt facilities to support operations, finance acquisitions, or fund stock repurchases. Our current credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates on variable-rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Conversely, if interest rates substantially decrease, we would collect less interest income on settlement accounts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY Cyber Risk Management and Strategy In today's interconnected environment, information is inherently exposed to a wide range of risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. As a provider of products and services to financial institutions, Jack Henry integrates industry-standard frameworks, policies, and procedures to securely process and store sensitive information, prioritizing the protection of our associates, clients, and their private data in an ever-evolving cyber threat landscape. Jack Henrys information and cybersecurity program is a core component of our overall enterprise risk management framework. It is maintained by a team of highly skilled cybersecurity professionals and supported by investments in modern technology, including artificial intelligence and machine learning. The program is designed to safeguard Jack Henry and client confidentiality and privacy by systematically identifying, assessing, and managing material risks and cybersecurity threats through comprehensive cyber defense, threat and vulnerability management, and cyber intelligence. It includes continuous enterprise monitoring and well-defined and regularly tested business 20 resilience and incident response procedures. We also engage third-party vendors and consultants to assist in identifying, assessing, and mitigating cybersecurity risks. Jack Henry systems and services are subject to regular reviews by the same regulatory agencies that oversee financial institutions, including the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB), FDIC, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), NCUA, and the CFPB, among others. These reviews, including those conducted by the Federal Banking Agencies (comprised of the FDIC, FRB, and the OCC) help identify potential security gaps or control deficiencies. In addition, critical services provided to our clients undergo annual System and Organization Controls (SOC) reviews by independent auditors. Our associates and contractors play a vital role in the safeguarding of systems and data. All are required to complete annual security awareness training to ensure they stay current on best practices and emerging cyber threats. We also conduct routine phishing exercises to help associates and contractors recognize and appropriately respond to suspicious emails. Supplemental training is provided throughout the year to individuals and teams with elevated-risk profiles. Jack Henry relies on third-party service providers to deliver certain services and products to our clients. We evaluate and seek to mitigate the cybersecurity risks associated with these providers through pre-engagement and periodic risk assessments to ensure our standards for security are maintained. Our strategic risk management committees review and address any identified risks. In fiscal year 2025, we did not identify any cybersecurity threats, including those arising from prior incidents, that materially affected our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. As a large financial technology provider, we continually face risks from cybersecurity threats that, if realized, are reasonably likely to materially affect our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Despite our efforts to identify and respond to cybersecurity threats, we cannot guarantee that we will not experience a material cybersecurity incident in the future or that an undetected incident has not already occurred. For further discussion of cybersecurity risks, see the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A. CyberSecurity Governance and Oversight Our Board of Directors has ultimate oversight of risk management and has delegated responsibility for enterprise and operational risks, including cybersecurity, to the Boards Risk and Compliance Committee. This Committee oversees Jack Henrys risk assessment and management programs and reviews risk preparedness. The Audit Committee oversees financial risks and would be informed of any material cybersecurity incident that could potentially have a material impact on our financial statements. The Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) reports quarterly to the Risk and Compliance Committee and to the full Board of Directors on information security matters. The CISO also meets with the Risk and Compliance Committee at least annually to evaluate our overall security environment and organization. While the Board of Directors, through the Risk and Compliance Committee, maintains oversight of cybersecurity risks, management is primarily responsible for identifying, assessing, and managing these risks within our broader risk management program. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee, composed of senior executives, monitors governance, risk, and compliance enterprise-wide, including cybersecurity. Management has adopted specific policies and procedures to monitor and mitigate cybersecurity threats including an incident response program, led by the CISO and staffed by professionals with diverse expertise. Incidents meeting pre-established thresholds are escalated to management for threat assessment, mitigation, remediation, and, if necessary, disclosure to clients, third-parties, and regulators. Our CISO, who reports to the Chief Operations Officer, has primary responsibility for Jack Henrys information security strategy, policy, security engineering, operations, and cybersecurity threat detection and response. Our CISO brings more than 20 years experience in technology and cybersecurity, including senior leadership roles at major financial institutions. Under the CISO's direction, the information security team continuously monitors cybersecurity trends and implements proactive and defensive measures to protect against cybersecurity threats. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We own 154 acres located in Monett, Missouri on which we maintain eight office buildings, plus shipping and receiving, security, and maintenance buildings. We also own buildings in Allen, Texas; Birmingham, Alabama; Lenexa, Kansas; Angola, Indiana; Shawnee Mission, Kansas; and Springfield, Missouri. Our owned facilities represent approximately 795,000 square feet of office space in five states. We have 17 leased office facilities in 13 states, which total approximately 445,000 square feet. Of this total, approximately 54,700 square feet relates to our 21 Elizabethtown, Kentucky leased office facility of which approximately 50,900 square feet is subleased. The remaining owned and leased office facilities are for normal business purposes. We own five aircraft. Many of our clients are located in communities that do not have an easily accessible commercial airline service. We primarily use our aircraft in connection with implementation, sales of systems and internal requirements for day-to-day operations. Transportation costs for implementation and other client services are billed to our clients. We lease property, including real estate and related facilities, at the Monett, Missouri regional airport. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are subject to various routine legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. In the opinion of management, any liabilities resulting from current lawsuits are not expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), we record a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These liabilities are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a particular case or proceeding. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. 22 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) under the symbol JKHY." The Company established a practice of paying quarterly dividends in fiscal 1991 and has paid dividends with respect to every quarter since that time. The declaration and payment of any future dividends will continue to be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other factors, our earnings, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, and operating and financial condition. The Company does not currently foresee any changes in its dividend practices. On August 8, 2025, there were approximately 347,295 holders of the Companys common stock, including individual participants in security position listings. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following shares of the Company were repurchased during the quarter ended June 30, 2025: Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price of Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans (1) April 1 April 30, 2025 $ 3,411,018 May 1 May 31, 2025 $ 3,411,018 June 1 June 30, 2025 $ 3,411,018 Total $ 3,411,018 (1)Total stock repurchase authorizations approved by the Company's Board of Directors as of May 14, 2021 were for 35.0 million shares. Under these authorizations, the Company has repurchased and not re-issued 31,579,598 shares and has repurchased and re-issued 9,384 shares. The authorizations have no specific dollar or share price targets and no expiration dates. 23 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following chart presents a comparison for the five-year period ended June 30, 2025, of the market performance of the Companys common stock with the Standard & Poor's 500 ("S&P 500") Index and the Standard & Poor's Composite 1500 Software & Services ("S&P 1500 Software & Services") Index. Historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN Among Jack Henry & Associates, Inc., the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 1500 Software & Services Index The following information depicts a line graph with the following values: 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 JKHY 100.00 89.86 100.03 94.07 94.57 103.95 S&P 500 100.00 140.79 125.85 150.51 187.47 215.89 S&P Composite 1500 Software & Services 100.00 133.46 111.53 144.74 184.18 215.90 This comparison assumes $100 was invested on June 30, 2020, and assumes reinvestments of dividends. The stock performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 24 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following section provides management's view of the Company's financial condition and results of operations and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements, and related notes included elsewhere in this report. All dollar and share amounts, except per share amounts, are in thousands and discussions compare fiscal 2025 to fiscal 2024. Discussions of fiscal 2023 items and comparisons between fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. OVERVIEW Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. is a well-rounded financial technology company headquartered in Monett, Missouri, that employs approximately 7,240 full-time and part-time associates nationwide, and is a leading provider of technology solutions and payment processing services primarily to community and regional banks and credit unions. Our solutions serve approximately 7,400 clients and consist of integrated data processing systems solutions to banks ranging from de novo to multi-billion-dollar institutions with assets up to $55 billion, core data processing solutions for credit unions of all sizes, and non-core highly specialized core-agnostic products and services that enable banks and credit unions of every asset size and charter, and diverse corporate entities outside the financial services industry, to mitigate and control risks, optimize revenue and growth opportunities, and contain costs. Our integrated solutions are available for on-premise installation and delivery in our private and public cloud. Each of our solutions shares the fundamental commitment to provide high-quality business systems, service levels that consistently exceed client expectations, and integration of solutions and practical new technologies. The quality of our solutions, our high service standards, and the fundamental way we do business typically foster long-term client relationships, attract prospective clients, and have enabled us to capture substantial market share. Through internal product development, disciplined acquisitions, and alliances with companies offering niche solutions that complement our proprietary solutions, we regularly introduce new products and services and generate new cross-sales opportunities. We provide compatible computer hardware for our on-premise installations and secure processing environments for our outsourced solutions in our private and public cloud. We perform data conversions, software implementations, initial and ongoing client training, and ongoing client support services. We believe our primary competitive advantage is client service. Our support infrastructure and strict standards provide service levels that generate high levels of client satisfaction and retention. We consistently measure client satisfaction using a variety of surveys, such as an annual survey on the client's anniversary date and randomly-generated surveys initiated each day by routine support requests. Dedicated surveys are also used to grade specific aspects of our client experience, including product implementation, education, and consulting services. Our two primary revenue streams are "services and support" and "processing." Services and support includes: "private and public cloud" revenues that predominantly have contract terms of six years at inception; "product delivery and services" revenues, which include revenues from the sales of licenses, implementation services, deconversions, consulting, and hardware; and "on-premise support" revenues, composed of maintenance fees that primarily contain annual contract terms. Processing includes: "remittance" revenues from payment processing, remote capture, and ACH transactions; "card" revenues, including card transaction processing and monthly fees; and "transaction and digital" revenues, which include transaction and mobile processing revenues. We continually seek opportunities to increase revenue while at the same time containing costs to expand margins. We have four reportable segments: Core, Payments, Complementary, and Corporate and Other. The respective segments include all related revenues along with the related cost of revenue. A detailed discussion of the major components of the results of operations follows. 25 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FISCAL 2025 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2024 In fiscal 2025, total revenue increased 7.2% or $159,745, compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total revenue for deconversion revenue of $33,905 in the current fiscal year and $16,554 in the prior fiscal year, results in a 6.5% increase, or $142,394. This increase was mainly driven by growth in data processing and hosting within cloud revenue as new clients were added and volumes expanded, card processing revenue primarily from expanded fraud detection and prevention risk management services and monthly service fees, digital revenue as active monthly users and volumes increased, and payment processing revenue from expanding volumes and new client revenue. Operating expenses increased 4.7%, or $80,421, in fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total operating expenses for deconversion costs of $6,242 in the current fiscal year and $3,408 in the prior fiscal year and for VEDIP related costs of $16,443 in the prior fiscal year, results in a 5.5% increase, or $94,031 (The VEDIP program was a Company voluntary separation program offered to certain eligible associates who chose to participate in the program from July through December 2023, including immaterial payments that continued into calendar 2024). The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to higher direct costs generally commensurate with increases in the related lines of revenue, higher personnel costs including increases in compensation costs during the trailing twelve months, and higher internal licenses and fees from price increases and more deployments in the current fiscal year. As we move into fiscal 2026 our 50th year in business we are excited and confident about our future, and we remain well-positioned to deliver durable, consistent growth and attractive results for our shareholders. Technology spending by financial institutions remains strong, and there is clear demand for our differentiated and innovative technology solutions. We have a very healthy sales pipeline and a proven ability to attract and win deals, especially with larger financial institutions. Our unwavering focus on culture, service, innovation, strategy, and execution continues to set us apart in the market and will enable us to drive continued industry-leading revenue growth with strong margin expansion, benefiting our associates, clients, and shareholders. A detailed discussion of the major components of the results of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 follows. REVENUE Services and Support Revenue Year Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 Services and support $ 1,361,737 $ 1,275,954 6.7% Percentage of total revenue 57% 58% Services and support includes: "private and public cloud" fees, which predominantly have contract terms of six years at inception; "product delivery and services" revenue, which includes revenue from the sales of licenses, implementation services, deconversion fees, consulting, and hardware; and "on-premise support" revenue, which is composed primarily of maintenance fees with annual contract terms. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, services and support revenue increased 6.7% compared to the prior fiscal year. Reducing total services and support revenue by deconversion revenue for each year, which totaled $33,905 in fiscal 2025 and $16,554 in fiscal 2024, services and support revenue grew 5.4%. This increase was primarily driven by higher data processing and hosting within cloud revenue as new clients were added and volumes expanded and increased consulting, work order, and release revenues, partially offset by the decrease in license and hardware revenues, year over year. Processing Revenue Year Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 Processing $ 1,013,551 $ 939,589 7.9% Percentage of total revenue 43% 42% Processing revenue includes: "remittance" revenue from payment processing, remote capture, and ACH transactions; "card" fees, including card transaction processing and monthly fees; and "transaction and digital" revenue, which includes transaction and mobile processing fees. 26 Table of Contents Processing revenue increased 7.9% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. This increase was driven by growth in card from expanded fraud detection and prevention risk management services and monthly service fees, digital revenue as active monthly users and volumes increased, and payment processing revenue from expanding volumes and new client revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost of Revenue Year Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 Cost of revenue $ 1,360,747 $ 1,299,477 4.7% Percentage of total revenue 57% 59% Cost of revenue for fiscal 2025 increased 4.7% compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total cost of revenue for deconversion costs of $3,517 in the current fiscal year and $2,231 in the prior fiscal year results in a 4.6% increase. This increase was driven by higher direct costs consistent with increases in the related revenue and higher personnel costs including increases in compensation costs during the trailing twelve months. Cost of revenue decreased 2% as a percentage of total revenue for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Research and Development Year Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 Research and development $ 162,771 $ 148,256 9.8% Percentage of total revenue 7% 7% We devote significant effort and expense to develop new software and service products and continually upgrade and enhance our existing offerings. We believe our research and development efforts are highly efficient because of the extensive experience of our research and development staff and because our product development is highly client driven. Research and development expenses for fiscal 2025 increased 9.8% compared to fiscal 2024. This increase was primarily due to higher personnel costs including increased compensation costs and employee headcount additions in the trailing twelve months and internal license and fees expenses from price increases and more deployments in the current fiscal year. The increase in this expense category for the current fiscal year reflects our continuing commitment to the development of strategic products. Research and development expense remained consistent as a percentage of total revenue for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Selling, General, and Administrative Year Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 Selling, general, and administrative $ 283,055 $ 278,419 1.7% Percentage of total revenue 12% 13% Selling, general, and administrative costs included all expenses related to sales efforts, commissions, finance, legal, and human resources, plus all administrative costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses for fiscal 2025 increased 1.7% compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total selling, general, and administrative expense for deconversion costs from each year, which totaled $2,725 in fiscal 2025 and $1,177 in fiscal 2024 and VEDIP program expenses of $16,443 in the prior fiscal year, results in a 7.5% increase. This increase was primarily due to higher personnel costs, excluding severance, including increased compensation and employee headcount additions in the trailing twelve months, increased travel expenses, and higher contract labor, partially offset by the gain on the sale of assets in the current fiscal year compared to the loss on the sale of assets last fiscal year. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased 1% as a percentage of total revenue for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. 27 Table of Contents INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE Year Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 Interest income $ 27,759 $ 25,012 11.0% Interest expense $ (10,438) $ (16,384) (36.3)% Interest income increased over the prior fiscal year due to increased interest earned on balances fiscal year over fiscal year. Interest expense decreased in fiscal 2025 mainly due to the timing and amounts of borrowed and repaid balances ending the current fiscal year with no remaining debt outstanding. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES Year Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 Provision for income taxes $ 130,288 $ 116,203 12.1% Effective rate 22.2% 23.3% The decrease in the Company's effective tax rate in fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024 was the result of differences in the change in uncertain tax positions between the two periods as well as a favorable state law change in the current fiscal year. NET INCOME Year Ended June 30, % Change 2025 2024 Net income $ 455,748 $ 381,816 19.4% Diluted earnings per share $ 6.24 $ 5.23 19.3% Net income grew 19.4% to $455,748, or $6.24 per diluted share, in fiscal 2025 from $381,816, or $5.23 per diluted share, in fiscal 2024. The diluted earnings per share increase fiscal year over fiscal year was 19.3%. This increase was primarily due to organic growth in our lines of revenue and the decrease in one-time severance expenses related to VEDIP fiscal year over fiscal year, partially offset by higher operating expenses in fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024 . REPORTABLE SEGMENT DISCUSSION The Company is a well-rounded financial technology company and is a leading provider of technology solutions and payment processing services primarily to community and regional banks and credit unions. The Companys operations are classified into four reportable segments: Core, Payments, Complementary, and Corporate and Other. The Core segment provides core information processing platforms to banks and credit unions, which consist of integrated applications required to process deposit, loan, and general ledger transactions, and maintain centralized accountholder information. The Payments segment provides secure payment processing tools and services, including ATM, debit, and credit card processing services, online and mobile bill pay solutions, ACH origination and remote deposit capture processing, and risk management products and services. The Complementary segment provides additional software, hosted processing platforms, and services, including digital/mobile banking, treasury services, online account opening, fraud/anti-money laundering ("AML") and lending/deposit solutions that can be integrated with the Company's Core solutions, and many can be used independently. The Corporate and Other segment includes revenue and costs from hardware and other products not attributed to any of the other three segments, as well as operating expenses not directly attributable to the other three segments. The Company evaluates the performance of its segments and allocates resources to them based on various factors, including performance against trend, budget, and forecast. Only revenue and costs of revenue are considered in the evaluation for each segment. 28 Table of Contents Immaterial adjustments between segments were made in fiscal 2025 to reclassify cost of revenue that was recognized in fiscal years 2024 and 2023. These reclasses were made to be consistent with the current allocation of cost of revenue by segment. Cost of revenue reclassed for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, from Complementary to Corporate and Other, was $4,922. Cost of revenue reclassed for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, from Core and Complementary to Corporate and Other, was $64 and $5,206, respectively. Core 2025 % Change 2024 Revenue $ 739,277 7.0% $ 690,738 Cost of Revenue $ 297,372 3.5% $ 287,349 In fiscal 2025, revenue in the Core segment increased 7.0% compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total Core revenue by deconversion revenue from both fiscal years, which totaled $14,765 in fiscal 2025 and $7,292 in fiscal 2024, Core segment revenue increased 6.0%. This increase was primarily driven by organic increases in our data processing and hosting revenue within cloud. Cost of revenue in the Core segment increased 3.5% for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total Core cost of revenue by deconversion costs from both fiscal years, which totaled $2,096 in fiscal 2025 and $1,065 in fiscal 2024, Core segment cost of revenue increased 3.1%. This increase was primarily due to increased direct costs associated with the organic growth in cloud revenue. Core segment cost of revenue decreased 1% as a percentage of revenue for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Payments 2025 % Change 2024 Revenue $ 873,498 6.8% $ 817,708 Cost of Revenue $ 460,151 4.1% $ 442,084 In fiscal 2025, revenue in the Payments segment increased 6.8% compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total Payments revenue by deconversion revenue from both fiscal years, which totaled $11,159 in fiscal 2025 and $5,836 in fiscal 2024, Payments segment revenue increased 6.2%. This increase was primarily driven by growth within card revenue and payment processing within remittance revenue. Cost of revenue in the Payments segment increased 4.1% for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. This increase was primarily due to increased direct costs related to growth in the card and remittance revenue lines, increased personnel costs including higher compensation costs in the trailing twelve months, and increased internal licenses and fees expense from more deployments and pricing in the current fiscal year. Deconversion and/or severance costs did not significantly affect the Payments segment cost of revenue fiscal year over fiscal year. Payments segment cost of revenue decreased 1% as a percentage of revenue for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Complementary 2025 % Change 2024 Revenue $ 675,209 9.2% $ 618,211 Cost of Revenue $ 264,823 5.5% $ 251,085 Revenue in the Complementary segment increased 9.2% for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total Complementary revenue by deconversion revenue from both fiscal years, which totaled $7,709 in fiscal 2025 and $3,217 in fiscal 2024, Complementary segment revenue increased 8.5%. This increase was primarily driven by organic increases in hosting and digital revenues within cloud and higher maintenance fee revenue. Cost of revenue in the Complementary segment increased 5.5% for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total Complementary cost of revenue by deconversion costs from both fiscal years, which totaled $1,119 in fiscal 2025 and $903 in fiscal 2024, Complementary segment cost of revenue increased 5.4%. This increase was primarily due to higher direct costs related to the organic growth in the digital and hosting within cloud revenue lines, increased personnel costs including higher compensation costs in the trailing twelve months, and higher amortization of capitalized software. Complementary segment cost of revenue decreased 1% as a percentage of revenue for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. 29 Table of Contents Corporate and Other 2025 % Change 2024 Revenue $ 87,304 (1.8)% $ 88,886 Cost of Revenue $ 338,401 6.1% $ 318,959 Revenue in the Corporate and Other segment decreased 1.8% for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Reducing total Corporate and Other revenue by deconversion revenue from both fiscal years, which totaled $272 in fiscal 2025 and $209 in fiscal 2024, Corporate and Other segment revenue decreased 1.9%. This decrease was mainly due to decreased hardware revenue, partially offset by increased processing fee revenue and software usage and subscription revenues within support. Cost of revenue for the Corporate and Other segment includes operating expenses not directly attributable to any of the other three segments and increased 6.1% for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. This increase was primarily related to higher direct costs, increased personnel costs including increased compensation costs and employee headcount additions in the trailing twelve months, and higher cloud consumption costs. Deconversion and/or severance costs did not significantly affect Corporate and Other cost of revenue fiscal year over fiscal year. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company's cash and cash equivalents increased to $101,953 at June 30, 2025, from $38,284 at June 30, 2024. The following table summarizes net cash from operating activities in the statement of cash flows: Year Ended June 30, 2025 2024 Net income $ 455,748 $ 381,816 Non-cash expenses 231,613 231,709 Change in receivables 15,056 28,219 Change in deferred revenue (25,559) (10,797) Change in other assets and liabilities (35,354) (62,906) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 641,504 $ 568,041 Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2025 increased 12.9% compared to fiscal 2024, primarily due to the increase in Net income and the net changes in prepaid expenses, deferred costs and other and accrued expenses within Change in other assets and liabilities fiscal year over fiscal year. Cash from operations is primarily used to repay debt, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and for capital expenditures. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2025 totaled $232,163 and included: $172,445 for the ongoing enhancements and development of existing and new product and service offerings; capital expenditures on facilities and equipment of $53,358, mainly for the purchase of computer equipment; $5,363 for the purchase and development of internal use software; and $2,000 for the purchase of investments. These expenditures were partially offset by proceeds from investments of $1,000 and $3 of proceeds from the sale of assets. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2024 totaled $240,165 and included: $167,175 for the ongoing enhancements and development of existing and new product and service offerings; capital expenditures on facilities and equipment of $58,118, mainly for the purchase of computer equipment; $8,646 for the purchase of investments; and $7,130 for the purchase and development of internal use software. These expenditures were partially offset by $904 of proceeds from the sale of assets. Financing activities used cash of $345,672 for fiscal 2025 and included: $164,644 for dividends paid to stockholders; borrowings and repayments on our credit facilities which netted to repayments of $150,000; and $35,051 for the purchase of treasury shares. These expenditures were partially offset by $4,023 of net cash inflow related to stock-based compensation. Financing activities used cash in fiscal 2024 of $301,835 and included $155,877 for dividends paid to stockholders; borrowings and repayments on our revolving credit facility which netted to repayments of $125,000; and $28,055 for the purchase of treasury shares. These expenditures were partially offset by $7,097 of net cash inflow related to stock-based compensation. 30 Table of Contents Capital Requirements and Resources The Company generally uses existing resources and funds generated from operations to meet its capital requirements. Capital expenditures totaling $53,358 and $58,118 for fiscal years ended June 30, 2025, and June 30, 2024, respectively, were made primarily for additional equipment and the improvement of existing facilities. These additions were funded from cash generated by operations. At June 30, 2025, the Company had $58,182 of significant outstanding purchase commitments related to property and equipment. We assessed our liquidity needs throughout fiscal 2025, and determined we had adequate capital resources and sufficient access to external financing sources to satisfy our current and reasonably anticipated funding needs. We will continue to monitor and assess these needs going forward. At June 30, 2025, the Company had contractual obligations of $1,700,611, including operating lease obligations, and $1,643,789 related to off-balance sheet contractual purchase obligations. Included in off-balance sheet contractual purchase obligations was the strategic services agreement that offers full-service debit and credit card processing on a single platform to our customers. This agreement was signed in fiscal 2017 and amended in May 2025 to add two additional service years and $213,053 to contractual obligations, bringing the total remaining purchase commitment at June 30, 2025 to $1,022,283 over the remaining term of the contract, which now extends to January 2038, subject to certain renewal terms. Contractual obligations exclude $22,649 of liabilities for uncertain tax positions as we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement. On July 4, 2025, the President of the United States signed into law legislation referred to as One Big Beautiful Bill Act (H.R. 1), which enacts substantial changes to the federal income tax law. The legislation includes several business-focused provisions, such as the restoration of immediate expensing for domestic research and development expenditures and the reinstatement of 100% bonus depreciation for qualified property placed in service after January 19, 2025. The Act also permanently extends key provisions from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). As the legislation was enacted after the June 30, 2025, balance sheet date, the financial implications are not included in the current fiscal year's financial statements. The Company is in the process of assessing the impacts of the new law and plans to incorporate updates in the financial results next fiscal year beginning in the quarter ending September 30, 2025. The Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase shares of its common stock. Under this authorization, the Company may finance its share repurchases with available cash reserves or short-term borrowings on its existing credit facilities. The share repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables and may be suspended at any time. At June 30, 2025, there were 31,580 shares in treasury stock and the Company had the remaining authority to repurchase up to 3,411 additional shares. The total cost of treasury shares at June 30, 2025 was $1,895,224. During fiscal 2025, the Company repurchased 207 treasury shares for $35,051. At June 30, 2024, there were 31,373 shares in treasury stock and the Company had authority to repurchase up to 3,618 additional shares. Credit facilities On August 31, 2022, the Company entered into a five-year senior, unsecured amended and restated credit agreement. The credit agreement allows for borrowings of up to $600,000, which may be increased to $1,000,000 by the Company at any time until maturity. The credit agreement bears interest at a variable rate equal to (a) a rate based on an adjusted Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") term rate or (b) an alternate base rate (the highest of (i) 0%, (ii) the Prime Rate for such day, (iii) the sum of the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day plus 0.50% per annum and (iv) the Adjusted Term SOFR Screen Rate (without giving effect to the Applicable Margin) for a one month Interest Period on such day for Dollars plus 1.0%), plus an applicable percentage in each case determined by the Company's leverage ratio. The credit agreement is guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of the Company and is subject to various financial covenants that require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios as defined in the credit agreement. As of June 30, 2025, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. The credit facility terminates August 31, 2027. There was $0 and $60,000 outstanding under the amended and restated credit facility at June 30, 2025, and June 30, 2024, respectively. Term loan facility On May 16, 2023, the Company entered into a term loan credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions, with an original principal balance of $180,000. Borrowings under the term loan facility bore interest at a variable rate equal to (a) a rate based on an adjusted SOFR term rate or (b) an alternate base rate (the highest of (i) 0%, (ii) the Prime Rate for such day, (iii) the sum of the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day plus 0.50% per annum and (iv) the Adjusted Term SOFR Screen Rate (without giving effect to the Applicable Margin) for a one month Interest Period on such day for Dollars plus 0.75%), plus an applicable percentage in each case determined by the Company's leverage ratio. The term loan credit agreement was guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of the Company 31 Table of Contents and was subject to various financial covenants that required the Company to maintain certain financial ratios as defined in the term loan credit agreement. The term loan credit agreement matured on May 16, 2025, and at the maturity date the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. There was $0 and $90,000 outstanding under the term loan at June 30, 2025, and June 30, 2024, respectively. Other lines of credit The Company had an unsecured bank credit line which provided for funding of up to $5,000 and bore interest at the prime rate less 1.0%. The credit line expired on April 30, 2025. There was no balance outstanding at June 30, 2025, or 2024. On October 31, 2024, the Company entered into a discretionary line of credit demand note, which provides for funding of up to $50,000 and bears interest at the prime rate less 2.0%. The note does not constitute a committed line of credit. The line of credit expires on October 31, 2025. There was no balance outstanding at June 30, 2025. On July 18, 2025, the Company entered into a new unsecured committed revolving line of credit facility with a commercial bank in the amount of $50,000, which bears interest at the prime rate less 1.0%. The line of credit expires on July 17, 2026. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which improves the disclosures about a public entity's reportable segments through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses that are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker. The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024, and should be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. The Company adopted this ASU effective for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025, with retrospective application of the additional segment information for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024, and 2023. Additional information regarding the Company's reportable segments is included in Note 14Reportable Segment Information. Not Adopted at Fiscal Year End In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, which enhances the transparency and decision usefulness of income tax disclosures. The ASU requires additional disclosure related to rate reconciliation, income taxes paid, and other disclosures to improve the effectiveness of income tax disclosures. The ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024, and applied on a prospective basis. Early adoption and retrospective application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU No. 2024-03, Income StatementReporting Comprehensive IncomeExpense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses, which requires more detailed disclosures of certain categories of expenses such as employee compensation, depreciation, and intangible asset amortization that are components of existing expense captions presented on the face of the consolidated statements of income. The ASU is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2026, and interim reporting periods within annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2027. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments upon historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in estimates or assumptions could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements. We have identified several critical accounting estimates. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both: (a) the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) 32 Table of Contents the impact of changes in the estimates and assumptions would have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue from data processing, transaction processing, software licensing and related services, professional services, and hardware sales. Identification of performance obligations We enter into contracts with clients that may include multiple types of goods and services. At contract inception, we assess the solutions and services promised in our contracts with clients and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the client a solution or service (or bundle of solutions or services) that is distinct that is, if the solution or service is separately identifiable from other items in the arrangement and if the client can benefit from the solution or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available. Judgment is used in the identification and accounting for all performance obligations. We recognize revenue when or as we satisfy each performance obligation by transferring control of a solution or service to the client. Determination of transaction price The amount of revenue recognized is based on the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods and services to the client. Our contracts with our clients frequently contain some component of variable consideration. We estimate variable consideration in our contracts primarily using the expected value method, based on both historical and current information. Where appropriate, we may constrain the estimated variable consideration included in the transaction price in the event of a high degree of uncertainty as to the final consideration amount. Significant judgment is used in the estimate of variable consideration of client contracts that are long-term and include varying transactional volumes. Allocation of transaction price The transaction price, once determined, is allocated between the various performance obligations in the contract based upon their relative standalone selling prices. The standalone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which we separately sell each good or service. For items that are not sold separately, we estimate the standalone selling prices using all information that is reasonably available, including reference to historical pricing data. Contract costs We incur incremental costs to obtain a contract as well as costs to fulfill contracts with clients that are expected to be recovered. These costs consist primarily of sales commissions, which are incurred only if a contract is obtained, and client conversion or implementation-related costs. Capitalized costs are amortized based on the transfer of goods or services to which the asset relates, in line with the percentage of revenue recognized for each performance obligation to which the costs are allocated. Capitalization of software development costs We capitalize certain costs incurred for use in our cloud-based services and to develop commercial software products. For internal use software, capitalization begins at the beginning of application development. Costs incurred prior to this are expensed as incurred. Significant estimates and assumptions include determining the appropriate amortization period based on the estimated useful life and assessing the unamortized cost balances for impairment. Amortization begins on the date the software is placed in service and the amortization period is based on estimated useful life For software that is to be sold, significant areas of judgment include: establishing when technological feasibility has been met and costs should be capitalized, determining the appropriate period over which to amortize the capitalized costs based on the estimated useful lives, estimating the marketability of the commercial software products and related future revenues, and assessing the unamortized cost balances for impairment. Costs incurred prior to establishing technological feasibility are expensed as incurred. Amortization begins on the date of general release and the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of future revenues from sales of the products. We consider various factors to project marketability and future revenues, including an assessment of alternative solutions or products, current and historical demand for the product, and anticipated changes in technology that may make the product obsolete. A significant change in an estimate related to one or more software products could result in a material change to our results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Purchase accounting We account for our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. This method requires estimates to determine the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired, including judgments to determine any acquired intangible assets such as computer software and client-related intangibles. Third-party valuation firms may be used to assist in the appraisal of certain assets and liabilities, but even those determinations would be based on significant estimates provided by us, such as forecast revenues or profits on contract-related intangibles. Numerous factors are typically considered in the purchase accounting assessments, which are conducted by Company professionals from legal, finance, human resources, information systems, program management and other disciplines. Changes in assumptions and estimates of the acquired assets and liabilities would result in changes to the fair values, resulting in an offsetting change to the goodwill balance associated with the business acquired.