Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report. Other than the addition of Business Combinations below, there have been no significant changes to these policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2021. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. We make significant estimates in determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, especially with respect to intangible assets. These estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future, the appropriate weighted-average cost of capital, and the cost savings expected to be derived from acquiring an asset. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates, or actual results. 35 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See the section titled Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 2 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 3. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We have operations in the United States and internationally, and we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of our business. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our revenue and expenses are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Substantially all of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore our revenue is not subject to significant foreign currency risk. However, a significant portion of our operating costs in Israel, consisting principally of salaries and related personnel expenses, and operating lease and facility expenses are denominated in NIS. This foreign currency exposure gives rise to market risk associated with exchange rate movements of the U.S. dollar against the NIS. Furthermore, we anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. To reduce the impact of foreign exchange risks associated with forecasted future cash flows and certain existing assets and liabilities and the volatility in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, we have established a hedging program. Foreign currency contracts are generally utilized in this hedging program. Our foreign currency contracts are generally short-term in duration. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We account for our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accounting for changes in the fair value of the derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. Our hedging program reduces but does not eliminate the impact of currency exchange rate movements. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to our business, after considering our hedging programs, would not have had a material impact on our results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021. Our derivatives expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. We seek to mitigate such risk by limiting our counterparties to major financial institutions and by spreading the risk across a number of major financial institutions. However, failure of one or more of these financial institutions is possible and could result in incurred losses. As of September 30, 2021, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments were primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. A 10% increase or decrease in current exchange rates would not materially affect our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investment balances as of September 30, 2021. Interest Rate Risk As of September 30, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents of $84.6 million, and short-term investments of $317.8 million. Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of cash in banks and money market funds. Short-term investments generally consist of bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, municipal securities, and government and agency debt. Our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held for working capital purposes. Such interest-earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. The primary objectives of our investment activities are the preservation of capital, the fulfillment of liquidity needs and the fiduciary control of cash. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. Due to the short-term nature of these instruments, a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates during any of the periods presented would not have had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021.