Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsNon-GAAP Financial Measures for a discussion of the limitations of Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP performance measure. Our platform provides a differentiated and comprehensive value proposition for our customers. Additionally, we believe the demand for video offerings has reached an inflection point, with several trends driving strong demand for video applications. We intend to continue expanding our Video Experience Cloud with new Media Services, as well as new products and industry solutions. We have also begun to increase our sales and marketing investment to capture the significant market opportunity ahead of us, including increasing the size and reach of our direct sales team, and investing in self-serve products and channel partnerships to expand our presence with smaller customers across all industries. 5 Key Trends Impacting the Video Market The nature of video consumption has transformed in recent years. Several major trends have played a role in this evolution: Availability of Broadband: The availability of internet-based services has increased in recent years, with global telecom operators increasing investment in next-generation mobile networks to reach previously underpenetrated regions and enhance performance in existing ones. This, coupled with the decreasing price of broadband, has accelerated the use of internet-based services such as video across a global audience. Broad Penetration of Smartphones: Billions of people around the world use smartphones today, equipped with sophisticated technology that allows them to create, watch, and transmit video anytime and anywhere. Rise of OTT and Cloud Technologies: Television has left its original home within cable and satellite networks and TV set-top boxes and is now being delivered from the cloud as an internet-based service to any device. OTT video technology has enabled content providers to bypass the traditional distribution value chain and reach consumers directly without relying on network owners as the middleman. Consumerization of Enterprise Technology: Employees in todays businesses expect consumer-like experiences with enterprise technology, expanding their use case of technology at work from simply exchanging information and data, to interacting, socializing, and learning. This has accelerated the use of video for both internal and external use cases. The Shift to Remote Work and Education: The world is shifting to a new normal that includes remote and hybrid work practices that rely heavily on video communication, including virtual meetings and asynchronous communications, each of which require complex, integrated video workflows and analytics, to create comprehensive digital experiences at scale. Additionally, as entire campuses have shifted online, video and virtual classrooms have become a requirement for business continuity and operations. Virtual Events: Over the past two years, COVID-19 has forced conference and event organizers to adopt a virtual experience. Such events have proven their ROI in marketing funnels and employee engagement, enabling a scale of events and digital touchpoints with a lower budget. At the core of these events is video for communication, content, education and more. COVID-19 Pandemic Accelerating Preexisting Trends: We believe the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the use of video for numerous use cases, including remote learning, remote work, remote healthcare, consumer communication, e-commerce and online entertainment. We believe that the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated preexisting trends, with video experiences poised to be a key element of online interactions for decades to come. Limitations of Existing Video Solutions While various video solutions exist in the market today, we believe they are mostly discrete inflexible point solutions that suffer from a lack of modularity, extensibility, and interoperability; offer limited breadth and depth of functionality, data insights, and end user engagement; and do not provide the required cloud-based enterprise-grade reliability, scalability, compliance, and security. As a result, these offerings limit the ability of customers to maximize the benefits of video technology for their businesses and are also too costly and require significant time to value. Discrete Point Solutions: Most existing solution providers lack workflows and experiences connecting different video technologies (live, real-time and on-demand), devices, and use cases. As a result, businesses are faced with the complexity of working with multiple vendors to meet their video needs, often leading to a lack of cohesiveness across offerings, silos of content and disjointed workflows, and security and monitoring concerns. 6 Inflexible Offerings: Many existing video solutions are turnkey applications that provide little by way of integration and customization. Their inflexible architecture often inhibits existing vendors ability to innovate quickly and extend the offering to keep up with the rapidly growing and evolving needs for video. Additionally, existing vendors provide few tools for businesses to build their own advanced video workflows and products. Limited Integration with Ecosystem: Most existing video solution providers have only a few integrations with third-party platforms, and therefore offer limited interoperability and a disjointed end-user experience. Limited Analytics Capabilities: Existing solutions often lack the robust analytics tools that enable interactivity and personalization. This limits the ability of businesses to make data-driven business decisions, further translating to limited end user engagement and a lower return on investment. Not Optimized for End Users: The interfaces of existing solutions are often not intuitive, and do not generate an immersive and engaging end user experience across devices. Not Built for the Cloud: Many existing offerings are not cloud-native and instead rely on legacy on-premise deployments to deliver their solutions, limiting their ability to innovate quickly and provide video seamlessly across devices. This also creates operational complexities for customers managing multiple video solutions and limits their ability to leverage economies of scale. Insufficient Support of Enterprise Standards: Many existing offerings lack the scale, security, and compliance needed by todays enterprises, and also lack the development, contribution, and support for industry standards that promote openness, interoperability, and accessibility. This creates a growing risk for businesses that are using video for mission-critical use cases at scale. Unnecessary Costs: Existing solutions frequently require extensive implementation, hardware maintenance and custom integrations with other video solutions and adjacent tools, often resulting in excess costs for the customer. Kalturas Video Experience Cloud Our Video Experience Cloud powers all types of video experiences: live, real-time, and on-demand. We designed it from the ground up using API-based building blocks that govern the entire video lifecycle and provide the foundation for our video applications. We believe our Video Experience Cloud is differentiated by the following characteristics: Unified Experiences: Our native support for video solutions across the tech stack live, real-time, and on-demand, enables us to create unified experiences that bridge technologies to create simple, cohesive workflows. This enables us to not only simplify operations, but also create new video experiences and richer content, avoiding the content and data silos generated by having several fragmented and disjointed point solutions. Interactive Media Experiences: We provide the complete stack, from video creation tools to playback. By providing tools for creators, we can create more immersive playback experiences, with interactive options for viewers. Live experiences such as webinars and meetings can be translated to interactive on-demand videos, providing not only a better experience for each viewer, but also a longer shelf life for content created. With content-centric experiences, we create engagement around the content, powering learning and collaboration. Media Services and Extensive Developer Tools: We offer developers extensive APIs, SDKs and media capabilities, enabling them to bring video experiences to any application. With embeddable experience components, application developers can shorten time to market, while bringing a complete and mature experience to their users. 7 Ecosystem: We have built a rich ecosystem of over 125 technology partners, extending our experiences with AI, video creation, and network optimization, among others. We make our partners solutions available to our customers through our marketplace, complete with a variety of plugins and out-of-the-box integrations with our platform. This ecosystem further simplifies our customers workflows, enabling them to weave video capabilities into non-video workflows and discover new technologies to further enhance their own offerings, ultimately increasing their satisfaction and stickiness with our platform. Analytics: Our platform offers powerful analytics across multiple dimensions, including insights related to engagement, time and seasonality comparisons, bottleneck identification, and congestion detection. These features help companies maximize the use of the data they are gathering across video channels, and better guide workflows associated with subscription. They also enable us to generate a significant amount of valuable data, which, when coupled with our proprietary AI/ML-powered analytics capabilities, drives further usage of our platform, creating a powerful virtuous cycle. Cloud-Agnostic: While most of our customers use our public cloud products and solutions, our solutions can be deployed across any private, public, or hybrid cloud environment, as well as on-premise, providing our customers with complete flexibility around their deployment. Enterprise-Grade: Our platform offers enterprise-grade reliability, security, and scalability, allowing us to support mission-critical workflows for experiences of any scale. We also offer proactive monitoring and various tiers of customer support. For customers that rely on Kaltura to power TV experiences, we offer service availability commitments of up to 99.995%, the highest industry benchmark required by major media and telecom customers. Additionally, we are a leader in the market with the development, contribution, and support for industry standards such as MPEG-DASH, LTI, Caliper and Open Video Capture standards by IMS Global Learning Consortium. We maintain compliance with accessibility standards, such as 508, CVAA, and WCAG 2.0 AA, and issued a self-disclosing Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) to ensure we adhere to the highest standards. Growth Strategies We intend to drive significant growth by executing on the following key strategies: Acquire New Customers: We believe we have a significant opportunity to expand our presence with Fortune Global 2000 companies and other global enterprises. We are in the process of increasing our investment in sales and marketing to capitalize on our significant market opportunity and on the strong sales efficiency unit economics that we have demonstrated. We are growing our base of field sales representatives and customer success managers, which we believe will drive both geographic and vertical expansion. Additionally, we are investing for the first time in inside sales, self-serve offerings, and distribution channels. We believe this will enable us to expand our presence across all industries beyond enterprises into SMEs, beyond universities into K-12 schools, beyond tier 1 media and telecom companies to tier 2 and 3 media and telecom companies, and beyond providing Media Services to large technology companies to also addressing smaller technology firms and startups. Extend Product Leadership: We believe our platform is ideally suited for expansion across products, solutions, industries, and use cases. We will continue to invest in new technologies and harness existing ones. We intend to continue to invest in our solutions across multiple dimensions: Recent Product Introductions: In 2020, we entered the real-time-conferencing market for the first time with the introduction of our Webinars, Virtual Classroom, and Events products. We believe these products present a significant long-term opportunity, and we intend to harness our growing presence with them. 8 Future New Offerings, including: Products: We will continue to invest in new video products for training, communication and collaboration, marketing, sales and customer care, some of which will be made available as self-serve products. I ndustry Solutions: We believe there is a significant opportunity to extend our platform into more industries. Following the success of our media and telecom and education solutions, we intend to launch solutions for industries such as healthcare and financial services, among others. Media Services: We intend to enhance our Media Services offerings with additional core capabilities and invest in areas such as content creation, personalization and interactivity, content aggregation and syndication, AI and smart monetization. We also intend to add these capabilities into our existing and new products and industry solutions. Increase Revenue from Existing Customers: We plan to continue to increase sales within our existing customer base through increased usage of our platform and the cross-selling of additional products and solutions. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our Net Dollar Retention Rate was 118% and 107%, respectively, demonstrating our ability to expand within our existing customer base. Augment our Platform Offering through Partnerships and Opportunistic M&A: We plan to increase the breadth of partnerships with our technology partners, further allowing us to provide the most comprehensive video solutions to our customers. Additionally, we intend to continue to explore potential transactions that could enhance our capabilities or increase the scope of our technology footprint. Kaltura Video Experience Cloud Video experiences are the driving force for online interactions, at home, at work and at school. Our Video Experience Cloud powers all types of video experiences: live, real-time, and on-demand, engaging millions of end users daily. We designed our Video Experience Cloud from the ground up using API-based building blocks which govern the entire video lifecycle and provide the foundation for our video applications. 9 Our Media Services underpin our products and industry solutions, addressing all Media Services required for creation, transcoding, management, security, distribution, publishing, and analytics across live, real-time, and on demand video experiences. We believe this offering sets us apart by enabling ease of integration and customization, and by allowing us to innovate at a very high pace. Our Media Services are also offered to technology companies and developers in the form of a PaaS that includes APIs, SDKs, and Experience Components. Companies across all industries use our Video Sites, Virtual Classroom, Webinars and Events products for communication, collaboration, training, and customer experience (marketing, sales, and customer care). Our industry solutions are used by educational institutions for in-class and remote teaching and learning, and by media and telecom companies to power TV and entertainment experiences. Kaltura Media Services APIs, SDKs, and Experience Components: These offerings include a comprehensive set of cloud video services addressing creation, ingestion, transcoding, management, security, editing, distribution, publishing, engagement, monetization, monitoring, multi-tenancy, and analyzing of video, audio, and images at scale. We also offer SDKs and Experience Components (a cluster of APIs that together form a software component with a front-end experience, such as a video player, live Q&A widget, online video editor, or polling tool) for fast development of advanced experiences, such as for video creation, capture, playback, webcasting, conferencing. or editing. These offerings not only serve as the video engine and experience layer of our own products and industry solutions, but are also offered to our customers to enable them to build their own video workflows and products. Our Media Services also serve technology partners within our marketplace who build plugins to our platform and enable our and their customers to leverage their value-add services such as for advanced media creation, AI, transcription, and delivery. Our Media Services are used today primarily by technology and healthcare companies; however, we believe they have potential applications across all industries. Video and TV Content Management Systems : Kaltura Video and TV Content Management Systems are a market leading multi-tenant media content management systems (CMS). Our Video CMS offers integrations with social business applications, learning management systems, marketing automation systems, content management systems, and video conferencing solutions. It also provides users with a Video Player Studio to design and configure lightweight, fast, and customizable video players for optimal viewing experiences on any device. Furthermore, it offers video AI and enrichment tools for captions, translations, and auto-chaptering. Our Video CMS also offers deep analytics built in, as well as support for Caliper and xAPI along with reporting APIs. Users can leverage our Video CMS extensible service framework for connecting third-party video enrichment services, as well as a centralized dashboard to manage workflows and budgets across services and departments. Our TV CMS serves as the administration console for our full-service offering which enables the launch and operation of a robust and scalable end-to-end, full-feature TV service. It enables Pay-TV and content providers to manage offers, content catalogs, users, devices and payments, handle marketing campaigns, and collect business intelligence to initiate data-driven decisions to optimize the business outcomes of their TV service. It also offers users a consistent and continuous viewing experience across devices, with TV apps available on Android TV streamers, Android TV STB, Apple TV, Web browsers, iOS, and Android mobile devices and tablets, as well as LG and Samsung Smart TVs. 10 Kaltura Video Products Webinars: Kaltura Webinars offers branded webinars with interactive tools to engage audiences. It provides customers with a brandable solution to ensure consistent brand messaging and customizable management to fit different needs. Additionally, Webinars offers interactive tools with rich video playback, polls, and other features, as well as integrated, advanced analytics to track engagement and connect to marketing automation workflows. Furthermore, via Kaltura Webinars users can scale to any audience with live broadcast, without the need to plan or incur more cost, and rich media recordings are immediately ready for reuse in embeddable galleries and for distribution to social channels. Events : Kaltura Events is a fully customizable events platform designed to support differentiated experiences at scale, supporting live, simulated live, real-time, and on-demand experiences, with unique networking and engagement functionality. Kaltura Events supports any event size and type, from single session meetings, to town halls, to multi-session flagship events, creating dedicated journeys for all attendee types, flexible sponsor packages, and robust analytics. With fully customizable branded templates, organizations can scale their event strategy and create immersive experiences with a click of a button. Video Sites: Video Sites is a market-leading enterprise video portal for watching, searching, creating, and engaging with live, real-time, and on-demand rich media content. This customizable portal can be used for learning and development, knowledge sharing and collaboration, as well as internal and external communication. It allows users, based on their permissions, to create, upload, share, search, browse, respond to quizzes, and watch live, real-time, and on-demand videos, video presentations, screencasts, conferencing recordings, and other rich media content, with full user management and moderation capabilities that enforce compliance and governance. Virtual Classroom: We enable both synchronous learning with Kaltura Virtual Classroom and asynchronous learning with training videos, video quizzes, and much more. User-level and content-level analytics provide feedback for learners and instructors. Kaltura Virtual Classroom offers a persistent virtual learning environment focused on engagement, interaction, and analytics. It enables users to join virtual classrooms with one click where participants interact face-to-face from any device, with no downloads or installations required. Kaltura Virtual Classroom offers collaboration and moderation tools, including whiteboard, quizzes, breakout rooms, and Q&A. Furthermore, Kaltura Virtual Classroom includes integrations to all leading LMS platforms and provides a white-label solution that can be customized to match each instructors class management style. Kaltura Industry Solutions Education LMS Video: Kaltura Learning Management Systems (LMS) Video allows customers to experience rich media as a native part of their LMS workflows by embedding video creation, publishing, search, playback, editing, captioning, analytics, and quizzing anywhere within the learning environment (course content, assignments, discussions, and more). These solutions enable customers to organize media repositories within course media galleries, personal user spaces, and instructor repositories for collaboration, reuse, and sharing of content. Quiz results and video engagement metrics can be seamlessly integrated into LMS gradebooks or analytics features. Kaltura LMS Video is available for various systems, including Moodle, Blackboard, Sakai, Canvas, and Brightspace. Lecture Capture: Kaltura Lecture Capture is a capture tool to record lectures and classrooms and make recordings available to students via Kalturas platform. Lectures and classes can be captured from multiple different devices. Kaltura Lecture Capture allows users to automatically publish course capture recordings to LMS courses, and videos can be enriched with captioning, interactive video quizzes, and advanced metadata. Users can leverage advanced analytics on viewership with user-level heatmaps, insights on engagement, and comparative analysis. Furthermore, they can use learning tools such as video quizzes, dynamic layers, hotspots, and interactive video paths to increase engagement. Customers can also leverage Lecture Capture for automated transcription, editing, advanced analytics, and metadata extraction. 11 Kaltura Industry Solutions Media & Telecom TV Solution: Our TV Solution is a turn-key solution powering TV operators to maximize their revenues, drive conversion and increase customer retention while providing the ability to conduct experiments and evaluate new monetization techniques. Geared towards medium-size media companies and operators, who do not need the level of customization required by tier-1 companies, Kaltura TV Solution contains all the required modules out-of-the-box to manage the TV service offering: content packages, pricing, discounts and coupons (in multiple currencies), support for free trials, seasonal pass and Pay-Per-View, box sets, Electronic-Sell-Through, and Advertising, Subscription, and Transactional offerings, as well as the user interface and apps for consumers. Customers As of December 31, 2021, we served over 1,000 customers, including several of the worlds leading brands across multiple industries, including financial services, high technology, healthcare, education, public sector, media and telecommunications. We serve 28 of the US Fortune 100, and more than 50% of U.S. R1 educational institutions, including seven of the eight Ivy League schools. Additionally, our solutions power 16 major global TV initiatives. Our customers are global, spanning 50 countries, and during the year ended December 31, 2021, our technology reached end users in over 200 countries. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 62% of our revenue was generated from customers in the Americas, 31% from customers in EMEA and 7% from customers in APAC. We have sold our products to customers of all sizes, selling to large global enterprises as well as more recently to SMEs. Sales & Marketing Our sales organization is primarily comprised of direct sales and account teams that focus mainly on acquisition, retention, and growth of large customers, including Fortune Global 2000 organizations. We currently have four direct sales and account teams, as noted below. Each of our teams sells the following offerings: M&T team, which sells our Media Services and TV Solution to media and telecom companies. Education team, which sells our Media Services, Video Products and specialized education industry solutions to universities and K-12 institutions. Technology team, which sells our Media Services and Video Products to technology companies who want to integrate our offerings into their own video workflows and products. All Other Enterprises team, which sells our Media Services and Video Products to all other customers (as well as sells our Video Products to our M&T customers). Additionally, we leverage reseller relationships globally to help market and sell our products to customers worldwide, especially in areas in which we have a limited presence. We are investing in initiatives to more efficiently reach new customers and expand our partnerships with existing ones. For example, we recently launched the option to purchase our Webinars, Virtual Classroom, and Media Services offerings directly from our website, allowing us to reduce our cost of customer acquisition, drive additional opportunities to our direct sales team, reach smaller customers, and broaden our target market. Our marketing efforts are focused on creating preference for our brand, and driving leads to Kaltura through thought leadership, participation in industry events, analyst and press coverage, customer referrals, community work, customer user groups, and Kaltura produced customer and industry events like Kaltura Connect and Kaltura Virtually Live. We also leverage digital campaigns and make free trials available for many of our products to drive engagement and conversion. 12 Research & Development Our business has been driven by constant innovation, anticipating trends ahead of other participants in the market. We believe we are one of the first organizations to recognize the importance and mission-critical nature of video experiences, and the subsequent need for Media Services that allow both us and our customers to support any video experience and workflow. Our ability to be a leader in our target markets and rapidly introduce new applications depends on the constant expansion of our Media Services, and the development of new products and industry solutions that rely on them. We work closely with our customers to address their growing needs for video experiences across all areas of operation. Our engineers aim to stay on the cutting edge of video experiences and have released over 100 new and enhanced features a year, on average for the last several years. Our main research and development facility is located near Tel Aviv, Israel, which we believe is a strategic advantage for us, allowing us to leverage a talented pool of engineers and product experts. Technology & Operations We believe our unique specialized Video Experience Cloud and technology enable a high level of reliability, scalability, performance, and security. Our cloud platform was specifically designed to address the entire lifecycle of video, addressing the need for intense computing resources for encoding, processing, synchronization, and delivery, as well as a higher level of bandwidth and network utilization and performance. We have addressed this in our platform design and development from the start. Our SaaS and PaaS offerings are deployed on AWS across several regions, including in Virginia, Oregon, Canada, Ireland, Frankfurt, Singapore, and Australia. In each region we are deployed on several availability zones for improved availability and resilience. We are also in the process of deploying our platform on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, which we believe will further enhance the resilience, reach and scale of our operations. Our technology and platform are cloud agnostic, allowing us to also offer private cloud, on-premise, and hybrid deployment options. While the great majority of our customers are deployed on our AWS public cloud infrastructure, some customers are hosted on separate and dedicated AWS private cloud environments that are also managed by us. Some customers have a hybrid cloud deployment, running our platform from the public cloud alongside a locally hosted Kaltura Enterprise CDN service or with locally hosted content storage. We also cater to self-hosted on-premise customers that deploy the same Kaltura Video Experience Cloud fully on their own infrastructure, and manage it for themselves. Our cloud operation teams are responsible for maintaining and upgrading our production environments, and for our system availability service-level agreements which vary from 99.9% to 99.995% (depending on the service). Our customer care teams are located around the world and operate on a follow-the-sun model, providing 24/7 service and ensuring that issues with our products and platform are addressed quickly, and according to our service level agreements. Our Video Operations Center (VOC) is responsible for monitoring our applications and services 24/7, responding to system alerts, and managing incidents. 13 Partner Ecosystem We have built an ecosystem consisting of over 125 partners that have integrated with our solutions, and extend our products and platform capabilities with creation, AI, transcripts, and delivery capabilities. We make our partners solutions available to our customers through our marketplace, complete with a variety of plugins and out-of-the-box integrations with our platform. This ecosystem further simplifies our customers workflows, enabling them to weave video capabilities into non-video workflows and discover new technologies to further enhance their own offerings, ultimately increasing their satisfaction and stickiness with our platform. It also allows us to test new experiences and components with our customers and determine which of the partnerships or technologies are strategic to our business. We also leverage a network of value-add resellers that add additional services or integrations to our products, helping us drive the acquisition of new customers around the world, notably those in regions in which we do not have significant presence. We also maintain relationships with cloud partners, most notably Amazon Web Services (AWS). We are an AWS Technology Partner and certified as an AWS competency partner in Education and Digital Workspace, with validated qualifications in Public Sector. As a member of the AWS ISV Accelerate Program, we are able to co-sell with the AWS sales organization to accelerate sales cycles and drive new business. Additionally, our offerings are available in the AWS marketplace. Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2021, we had 758 employees operating across 34 countries on 5 continents. We aim to provide our employees with a competitive salary and benefits that will enable them to achieve a good quality of life and plan for the future. In addition to competitive base salaries and cash compensation, we maintain equity incentive plans to attract, retain and reward personnel through share-based compensation awards. We are committed to ensuring a culture of diversity and equality. Our culture embraces our employees differences in age, race, gender and gender identity, sexual orientation and nationality. Except for certain of our employees in Brazil, our employees are not represented by a labor union in respect to their employment or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and largely consider our relationship with our employees to be good and mutually beneficial. Competition We believe our technology positions us well to compete with other video solution providers. Our key competitors vary based on market and industry. Our main competitors for Media Services (including Kaltura Video Content Management System ) are Microsoft/Azure Media Services, Amazon/AWS Media Services, and Twilio Our main competitors for Video Sites are Microsoft and Vimeo Our main competitors for Webinars are Zoom and Cisco Our main competitors for Events are Cvent, Intrado and Hopin 14 Our main competitor for Virtual Classroom is Adobe Connect Our main competitors for our Education Solutions (Kaltura LMS Video and Lecture Capture) are Zoom, Microsoft, and Cisco Our main competitors for our Media & Telecom Solution are Synamedia (formerly under Cisco), MediaKind (formerly under Ericsson), and Comcast Technology Solutions (part of Comcast) We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets include, but are not limited to: breadth and scale of products, solutions, and Media Services; ability to provide a cross-organization video platform with multiple interoperable video solutions; ability to support converging experiences across live, real time, and on-demand video; flexibility to build and support custom workflows using video technology; ease of customization and integration with other products; quality of service and customer satisfaction; flexibility of deployment options; ability to innovate quickly; data capabilities, including advanced analytics and AI; enterprise-grade reliability, security, and scalability; cost of implementation and ongoing use; brand recognition; and corporate culture. We believe that we compare favorably on the basis of the factors listed above. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources; relationships with large vendor partners; larger global presence; larger customer bases; longer operating histories; greater brand recognition; larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios; and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Furthermore, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships, or strategic relationships. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and IndustryThe markets in which we compete are nascent and highly fragmented, and we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, some of whom have greater financial, technical, and other resources than we do. If we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Intellectual Property Intellectual property is an important aspect of our business and we seek protection for our intellectual property rights as appropriate. To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, know-how and continuing innovation, and contractual restrictions such as confidentiality agreements, licenses, and intellectual property assignment agreements. 15 As of December 31, 2021, we owned nine issued U.S. patents and eleven non-U.S. patents and patent applications. The issued U.S. patents are expected to expire between 2028 and 2035. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. To protect our brand, we file trademark registrations in the United States and in some other jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2021, we owned five registered trademarks in the United States and three registered trademarks in foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union and Brazil, that we consider material to the marketing of our products, including the Kaltura name and logo. We generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements and proprietary rights agreements with our employees and consultants and to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. However, we cannot guarantee that all applicable parties have executed such agreements. Such agreements can also be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. Intellectual property laws, procedures, and restrictions provide only limited protection, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries do not protect intellectual property and proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we therefore may be unable to protect our proprietary technology in certain jurisdictions. Moreover, our platform and many of our products and services incorporate software components licensed to the general public under open-source software licenses. We obtain some components from software developed and released by contributors to independent open-source components of our platform. Open-source licenses grant licensees broad permissions to use, copy, modify and redistribute certain components of our platform. As a result, open-source development and licensing practices can limit the value of our proprietary software assets. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services with the same functionality as our platform. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. Our competitors could also independently develop technologies like ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from selling products and services incorporating those technologies. For more information regarding the risks relating to intellectual property, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Information Technology, Intellectual Property and Data Privacy and Security. Seasonality Historically, we have experienced seasonality in bookings and collections from customers within the education market, with a pattern of higher sales and new academic customers in the second and third quarters of the year as a result of school procurement periods, resulting in lower sequential sales and customer growth in other quarters of the year. We also experience increased usage by these customers during periods when school is in session, leading to higher cost of revenue during the first and fourth quarters of the year. Because the agreements for certain of our solutions do not limit usage or increase pricing for usage in excess of a specified amount, these additional costs may not result in a corresponding increase in revenue. The rapid growth we have experienced in recent years may have masked the full effects of these seasonal factors on our business to date, and as such, these factors may have a greater effect on our results of operations in future periods. 16 Additional Information Kaltura, Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in October 2006. We completed our initial public offering of our common stock in July 2021. Our website is www.kaltura.com. At our Investor Relations website, investors.kaltura.com, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the events described below could harm our business, operating results, financial condition, liquidity, or prospects. In any such event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. See Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately manage this growth and any future growth, or if we are unable to improve our systems, processes and controls, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected . We have experienced rapid growth and increased demand for our offerings in recent periods, including in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and we plan to make continued investments in the growth and expansion of our business and customer base. The growth and expansion of our business places a continuous and significant strain on our management, operational, financial, and other resources. In addition, as customers adopt our offerings for an increasing number of use cases, we have had to support more complex commercial relationships. In order to manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our security and compliance requirements, our operating and administrative systems, our customer service and support capabilities, our relationships with various partners and other third parties, and our ability to manage headcount and processes in an efficient manner. We may not be able to sustain the pace of improvements to our platform, products and solutions, or the development and introduction of new offerings, successfully, or implement systems, processes, and controls in an efficient or timely manner or in a manner that does not negatively affect our results of operations. Our failure to improve our systems, processes, and controls, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to forecast our revenue, expenses, and earnings accurately, or to prevent losses. As we continue to expand our business and operate as a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain our corporate culture while managing our employee growth. Any failure to manage our anticipated growth and related organizational changes in a manner that preserves our culture could negatively impact future growth and achievement of our business objectives. Additionally, our productivity and the quality of our offerings may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. These challenges have been, and likely will continue to be, heightened due to the ongoing pandemic related to COVID-19 and its variants and the related stay-at-home, travel and other restrictions instituted by governments around the world. Failure to manage our growth to date and any future growth effectively could result in increased costs, negatively affect customer satisfaction, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. 17 Our recent growth may not be indicative of our future growth, and we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future. Our growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. Our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $165.0 million and $120.4 million, respectively, representing an annual growth rate of 37%. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior period as an indication of our future performance. As we operate in new and rapidly changing markets, widespread adoption and use of our platform, products and solutions is critical to our future growth and success. We believe our revenue growth will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things, our ability to: attract new customers and maintain our relationships with, and increase revenue from, our existing customers; provide excellent customer and end user experiences; maintain the security and reliability of our platform, products and solutions; introduce and grow adoption of our offerings in new markets outside the United States; hire, integrate, train and retain skilled personnel; adequately expand our sales force and distribution channels; continually enhance and improve our platform, products and solutions, including the features, integrations and capabilities we offer, and develop or otherwise introduce new products and solutions; obtain, maintain, protect and enforce intellectual property protection for our platform and technologies; expand into new technologies, industries and use cases; expand and maintain our partner ecosystem; comply with existing and new applicable laws and regulations, including those related to data privacy and security; price our offerings effectively and determine appropriate contract terms; determine the most appropriate investments for our limited resources; successfully compete against established companies and new market entrants; and increase awareness of our brand on a global basis. If we are unable to accomplish any of these objectives, our revenue growth will be impaired, and even if our revenue continues to increase, we expect that our revenue growth rate will decline in future periods. Many factors may contribute to declines in our growth rate, including greater market penetration, increased competition, slowing demand for our offerings, a failure by us to continue capitalizing on growth opportunities, the maturation of our business, and global economic downturns, among others. Additionally, it is difficult to estimate the extent to which our recent growth has benefited from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which increased demand from new and existing customers across all of our offerings beginning in the second quarter of 2020 and contributed to an acceleration in our revenue growth when compared to prior periods. While market demand for our offerings was growing at a robust rate prior to the pandemic, we are unable to predict the duration, degree, or volatility of our recent or any future growth with any degree of certainty. If our growth rate declines as a result of this or any of the other factors described above, investors perceptions of our business and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, our rapid growth may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. Our ability to forecast our future results of operations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to effectively plan for and model future growth. We have encountered in the past, and may encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries that may prevent us from achieving the objectives outlined above. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, or if we are not able to accurately forecast future growth, our business would be adversely affected. Moreover, if the assumptions that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our market, or if we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, the market price of our common stock could be volatile, and it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. 18 We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred losses in each year since our incorporation in 2006, including net losses of $59.4 million, $58.8 million, and $15.6 million in the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As a result, we had an accumulated deficit of $(322.6) million as of December 31, 2021. We intend to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on, among other things: growing our base of field sales representatives and customer success managers, introducing inside sales and self-serve offerings and distribution channels, and expanding our customer base; extending our product leadership by investing in our Webinars and Events products, as well as our TV Solution and other recently introduced offerings, as well as by developing new products, expanding our platform into additional industries and enhancing our Media Services offerings with additional core capabilities and technologies; increasing sales within our existing customer base through increased usage of our platform and the cross-selling of additional products and solutions; augmenting our current offerings by increasing the breadth of our technology partnerships and exploring potential transactions that may enhance our capabilities or increase the scope of our technology footprint; continuing to grow our international operations; and general administration, including legal, accounting, and other expenses related to our transition to being a new public company. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently, or at all, to offset these higher expenses. In addition, to the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we may also incur increased losses because the costs associated with acquiring customers are generally incurred up front, while the subscription revenue is generally recognized ratably over the subscription term. This will be particularly true as we acquire new customers for our Events product and TV Solution, which entail significant non-recurring up-front costs as compared to our other offerings, and because we expect to significantly increase our sales and marketing spend in anticipation of future revenue growth. If our revenue does not increase to offset the expected increases in our operating expenses, we will not achieve profitability in future periods and our net losses may increase. Revenue growth may slow or revenue may decline for a number of possible reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including slowing demand for our platform, products or solutions, increasing competition, or any of the other factors discussed in this Risk Factors section. Any failure to increase our revenue as we grow our business could prevent us from achieving profitability at all or on a consistent basis, which would cause our business, financial condition, and results of operations to suffer and the market price of our common stock to decline. The ongoing COVID-19 outbreak could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In December 2019, an outbreak of a novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) was first identified and began to spread across the globe and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared it a pandemic. This contagious disease has spread across the globe and is impacting economic activity and financial markets worldwide, including countries in which our end users and customers are located, as well as the United States and Israel where we have business operations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, government authorities around the world have ordered schools and businesses to close, imposed restrictions on non-essential activities and required people to remain at home while imposing significant restrictions on traveling and social gatherings. 19 In light of the uncertain and rapidly evolving situation relating to the spread of COVID-19, as well as government mandates, we took precautionary measures intended to minimize the risk of the virus to our employees, our customers, our partners and the communities in which we operate, which could negatively impact our business. In the first quarter of 2020, we temporarily closed all of our offices and enabled our entire work force to work remotely. We also suspended all travel worldwide for our employees for non-essential business. In the second quarter of 2020, we reopened selected offices, however most of our employees continued to work remotely, a majority of whom continue to do so as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These changes could extend into future quarters. While the pandemic related to COVID-19 and its variants has not had a material adverse impact on our operations through the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the impact of COVID-19 and its variants on our ability to attract, serve, retain, or upsell customers is inherently uncertain and depends on the duration, severity and potential resurgence of the outbreak and its impact on end users, customers, and the macroeconomic environment as a whole. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, our employees traveled frequently to establish and maintain relationships with one another, as well as our customers, partners, and investors. Although we continue to monitor the situation and may adjust our current policies as more information and public health guidance become available, continued limitations on travel and doing business in person may negatively affect our customer success efforts, sales and marketing efforts, challenge our ability to enter into customer contracts in a timely manner, slow down our recruiting efforts, or create operational or other challenges, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the increase in usage we experienced as a result of the pandemic, in the third quarter of 2020, we accelerated our existing plans to move from our own data centers to public cloud infrastructure in order to provide required stability, reliability, scalability and elasticity. Though we do not believe our transition to and reliance on public cloud infrastructure will materially increase our cost of revenue over the long-term, our cost of revenue did increase in the third and fourth quarters of 2020, and we incurred additional costs related to this transition in 2021 as we continued the process of scaling our network infrastructure. Our gross margin and results of operations have also been impacted by, and may continue to be impacted by, the increased usage of certain of our offerings, primarily in the education market, for which the terms of our customer agreements do not limit customer usage or increase pricing for usage above a certain amount. In addition, in connection with our transition to public cloud infrastructure, we recorded a one-time expense during the third quarter of 2020 related to the abandonment of data center equipment. We also experienced an initial period of unstable service during the first few months of this transition, causing us to fall below the service-level commitments in our customer agreements, which could negatively impact customer renewals and, as a result, our Net Dollar Retention Rate, in future periods. Furthermore, the pandemic related to COVID-19 and its variants has disrupted and may continue to disrupt the operations of our customers and technology partners for an indefinite period of time, including as a result of travel restrictions and/or business shutdowns, all of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. More generally, the COVID-19 outbreak has adversely affected economies and financial markets globally, leading to an economic downturn, which could decrease technology spending and adversely affect demand for our offerings and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Existing and potential customers may choose to reduce or delay technology investments in response to the pandemic related to COVID-19 and its variants, or attempt to renegotiate contracts and obtain concessions, which may materially and negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and prospects. The pandemic related to COVID-19 and its variants has also resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital, which could in the future negatively affect our liquidity. It is also possible that continued widespread remote work arrangements may have a negative impact on our operations, the execution of our business plans, the productivity and availability of key personnel and other employees necessary to conduct our business, and on third-party service providers who perform critical services for us, or otherwise cause operational failures due to changes in our normal business practices necessitated by the outbreak and related governmental actions. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event occurred that impacted our employees ability to work remotely, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working may also result in privacy, data protection, data security, and fraud risks, and our understanding of applicable legal and regulatory requirements, as well as the latest guidance from regulatory authorities in connection with the pandemic related to COVID-19 and its variants, may be subject to legal or regulatory challenge, particularly as regulatory guidance evolves in response to future developments. 20 It is not possible at this time to estimate the long-term impact that COVID-19 and its variants could have on our business, financial condition and results of operations as the impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Even after the outbreak of COVID-19 and its variants has subsided, we may experience materially adverse impacts to our business as a result of its global economic impact, including any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. The markets for our offerings are new and evolving and may develop more slowly or differently than we expect. Our future success depends on the growth and expansion of these markets and our ability to adapt and respond effectively to evolving market conditions. The markets in which we operate are relatively new and rapidly evolving. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict customer adoption, renewals and demand, the entry of new competitive products, the success of existing competitive products, and the future growth rate, expansion, longevity, and size of the markets for our platform, products, and solutions. The expansion of these new and evolving markets depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with the technologies that we and others in our industry develop. If we or other companies in our industry experience security incidents, loss of customer data, or disruptions in delivery or service, the market for these applications as a whole, including the demand for our offerings, may be negatively affected. If video products and solutions such as ours do not continue to achieve market acceptance, or there is a reduction in demand caused by decreased customer acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, privacy, data protection and data security concerns, governmental regulation, competing technologies and products, or decreases in information technology spending or otherwise, the market for our offerings might not continue to develop or might develop more slowly than we expect, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Similarly, we do not know whether recent trends, such as the increased utilization of cloud-based live and real-time video experiences as an alternative to in-person experiences, which has accelerated during the COVID-19 pandemic, will continue in the future. Our results of operations are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our results of operations, including our revenue, cost of revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, cash flow, and deferred revenue, have fluctuated from quarter to quarter and year to year in the past and may continue to vary significantly in the future so that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. Accordingly, our financial results in any one quarter should not be relied upon as indicative of future performance. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, may be difficult to predict, and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results include: our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from our existing customers the loss of existing customers subscription renewals, and the timing and terms of such renewals fluctuations in customer usage from period to period, including as a result of seasonality in our customers underlying businesses, which create variability in our cost of revenue customer satisfaction with our products, solutions, platform capabilities and customer support mergers and acquisitions or other factors resulting in the consolidation of our customer base 21 mix of our revenue our ability to gain new partners and retain existing partners fluctuations in stock-based compensation expense decisions by potential customers to purchase competing offerings or develop in-house technologies and solutions as alternatives to our offerings changes in the spending patterns of our customers; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business and operations, including investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative resources our increasing reliance on public cloud infrastructure, which will result in higher variable costs compared to our own data centers; network outages developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or proprietary rights, our platform, products or solutions, or third-party intellectual property or proprietary rights; negative publicity about our company, our offerings or our partners, including as a result of actual or perceived breaches of, or failures relating to, privacy, data protection or data security the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired companies general economic, industry, and market conditions the impact of the ongoing pandemic related to COVID-19 and its variants, or any other pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of infectious disease or other global health crises on our business, the businesses of our customers and partners and general economic conditions the impact of political uncertainty or unrest changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors fluctuations in the growth rate of the markets that our offerings address seasonality in the underlying businesses of our customers, including budgeting cycles, purchasing practices and usage patterns the business strengths or weakness of our customers our ability to collect timely on invoices or receivables the cost and potential outcomes of future litigation or other disputes future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies our overall effective tax rate, including impacts caused by any reorganization in our corporate tax structure and any new legislation or regulatory developments our ability to successfully expand our business in the United States and internationally fluctuations in the mix of on-premise and SaaS/PaaS deployments 22 fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the timing and success of new products and solutions introduced by us or our competitors, or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers or partners. In particular, our cost of revenue is generally higher in periods during which we acquire new customers for our Events product, which can entail significantly higher up-front costs compared to our other offerings. Historically, we have also experienced seasonality in bookings and collections from customers within the education market, with a pattern of higher sales and new academic customers in the second and third quarters of the year as a result of school procurement periods, resulting in lower sequential sales and customer growth in other quarters of the year. We also experience increased usage by these customers during periods when school is in session, leading to higher cost of revenue during the first and fourth quarters of the year. Because the agreements for certain of our solutions do not limit usage or increase pricing for usage in excess of a specified amount, these additional costs may not result in a corresponding increase in revenue. In addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2020 and continuing through the second quarter of 2021, we experienced a significant increase in the usage of our offerings due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of this usage and increased demand from our customers, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs associated with upgrading our infrastructure and expanding our capacity. In addition, operating on public cloud infrastructure has increased our variable costs, which may lead to higher overall costs, particularly in the near term as our usage scales. The impact of one or more of the foregoing or other factors may cause our results of operations to vary significantly. Such fluctuations make forecasting more difficult and could cause us to fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall substantially, resulting in the loss of all or part of your investment, and subject us to costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Additionally, the rapid growth we have experienced in recent years may have masked the full effects of seasonal factors on our business to date, and as such, these factors may have a greater effect on our results of operations in future periods. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, could cause us to fail to timely and accurately report our financial results and result in restatements of our consolidated financial statements. As a consequence, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting and our stock price could suffer. We are a public reporting company subject to the rules and regulations established from time to time by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (Nasdaq). These rules and regulations require, among other things, that we establish and periodically evaluate procedures with respect to our internal control over financial reporting. Reporting obligations as a public company are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Though we will be required to disclose changes made to our internal