ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, the ability of our products to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence of economic instability, and information regarding our and Ixias ability to complete the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the satisfaction of the conditions to the transactions set forth in the Merger Agreement, and our and the combined groups estimated or anticipated future results of operations, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a measurement company providing electronic test and design solutions to communications and electronics industries. On November 1, 2014, Keysight became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution by Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent") of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of Keysight to Agilent's shareholders (the "Separation"). Each Agilent shareholder of record as of the close of business on October 22, 2014 received one share of Keysight common stock for every two shares of Agilent common stock held on the record date, resulting in the distribution of approximately 167 million shares of Keysight common stock. Keysight's Registration Statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on October 6, 2014. Keysight's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "KEYS" on the New York Stock Exchange on November 3, 2014. In fiscal 2015, we initiated a phased program associated with our separation from Agilent to resize and optimize our infrastructure from the one that had been established to serve a diversified technology company. The focus of the first phase of the program was on the IT infrastructure to support finance, sales and human resources. The second phase of the program, which was initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2016, primarily addresses the optimization of the IT infrastructure to support the services business. We recognized costs related to this program of $6 million and $5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to recognize additional costs estimated to range from $19 million to $29 million through fiscal 2018. Overview and Executive Summary We provide electronic design and test instruments and systems and related software, software design tools, and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. We invest in product development to address the changing needs of the market and facilitate growth. We are investing in research and development to design measurement solutions that will satisfy the changing needs of our customers. These opportunities are being driven by evolving technology standards and the need for faster data rates and new form factors. In fiscal 2016, we completed an organizational change to align our organization with the industries we serve. As a result of this organizational realignment, we have three reportable operating segments: Communications Solutions Group, Electronic Industrial Solutions Group and Services Solutions Group. The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the 21 Table of Contents worldwide commercial communications end market, which includes internet infrastructure, and the aerospace, defense and government end market. The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets. The Services Solutions Group provides repair, calibration and consulting services, and remarkets used Keysight equipment. In addition, our global team of experts provides startup assistance, consulting, optimization and application support across all of our end markets. Three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2017 were $695 million, an increase of 2 percent when compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements had a negligible impact on the yearoveryear comparison. Net revenue of $726 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased 1 percent when compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements had a negligible impact on the yearoveryear comparison. Strength in revenue from the Services Solutions Group and leading edge technology solutions was partially offset by decline in the aerospace, defense and government market. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was $109 million compared to $64 million for the corresponding period last year. Looking forward, we believe the long-term growth rate of our markets is 2 to 3 percent, although near-term macroeconomic indicators remain mixed. Our focus is on delivering value through innovative electronic design and test solutions as well as continuously improving our operational efficiency. Restructuring activities We initiated a targeted workforce reduction program in November 2016 that is expected to reduce Keysight's total headcount by between 60 to 200 employees. The timing and scope of workforce reductions will vary based on local legal requirements. This targeted workforce management program was designed to support our site consolidation strategy, align with our new industry segment structure and improve efficiency. In the current period, we recognized $2 million of expense associated with the headcount reduction under this workforce reduction program. As of January 31, 2017, approximately 20 employees exited under the workforce reduction program. We expect to substantially complete this program by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Japan Pension Settlement Gain On December 15, 2016, we transferred a portion of the assets and obligations of our Japanese Employees Pension Fund ("EPF") to the Japanese government. The remaining portion of the EPF was transferred to a new Keysight Japan corporate defined benefit pension plan. The difference between the obligations settled with the government of $142 million and the assets transferred to the government of $51 million resulted in an increase in the funded status of the new defined benefit pension plan of $91 million. The settlement resulted in a gain of $68 million which is included in other operating expense (income) in the consolidated statement of operations. Definitive Agreement to Acquire Ixia On January 30, 2017, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Ixia, a leading provider of network testing, visibility, and security solutions, and, by a joinder executed on February 2, 2017, Keysight Acquisition, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours (Merger Sub), to acquire Ixia in an all-cash transaction totaling approximately $1.6 billion in consideration, net of cash acquired. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into Ixia with Ixia surviving the merger and becoming our wholly-owned subsidiary. Our board of directors and Ixias board of directors have both unanimously approved the transaction, which is anticipated to close no later than the end of October 2017 and is subject to approval by Ixia shareholders, regulatory approvals, and customary closing conditions and approvals. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Ixia shareholders will receive $19.65 per share in cash. The combination of Keysight and Ixia brings together two highly complementary companies to create an innovative force in leading-edge technologies that spans electronic design, device and network validation, and application and security performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. GAAP ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex 22 Table of Contents judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, warranty, restructuring and accounting for income taxes. For a detailed description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our consolidated statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis of up to a rolling twelve-month period. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations Orders and Net Revenue In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Revenue reflects the delivery and acceptance of the products and services as defined on the customer's terms and conditions. Cancellations are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2017 2016 Months (in millions) Orders $ 695 $ 679 2% Net revenue: Products $ 606 $ 601 1% Services and other 120 120 % Total net revenue $ 726 $ 721 1% Orders Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2017 were $695 million, an increase of 2 percent when compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements had a negligible impact on each of the yearoveryear comparisons. For the three months ended January 31, 2017, order growth in the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group and the Service Solutions Group was partially offset by decline in the Communications Solutions Group. Growth in Asia Pacific excluding Japan, Europe and Japan was partially offset by decline in the Americas. 23 Table of Contents Net Revenue The following table provides the percent change in net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 by geographic region including and excluding the impact of currency changes as compared to the same period last year. Year over Year % Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2017 Geographic Region actual currency adjusted Americas (4 )% (4 )% Europe 1 % 4 % Japan 6 % % Asia Pacific ex-Japan 4 % 4 % Total net revenue 1 % 1 % Net revenue of $726 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased 1 percent when compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements had a negligible impact on the yearoveryear comparison. Revenue from the Communications Solutions Group represented approximately 60 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and was flat year-over-year with negligible contribution to total revenue growth. Revenue growth in Europe and Japan was offset by declines in the Americas and Asia Pacific excluding Japan. Strength in 5G and next-generation data center technologies was offset by decline in the aerospace, defense and government market. Revenue from the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group represented approximately 26 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and was flat year-over-year with negligible contribution to total revenue growth. Growth in semiconductor measurement solutions was offset by a decline in general electronics measurement solutions. Revenue growth in Asia Pacific excluding Japan was offset by declines in the Americas, Europe and Japan. Revenue from the Services Solutions Group represented approximately 14 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and grew 5 percent year-over-year. The Services Solutions Group contribution to total revenue growth was 1 percentage point for the three months ended January 31, 2017, driven by an increase in sales for our calibration services and remarketed solutions. Revenue grew in the Americas, Europe and Japan, while Asia Pacific excluding Japan was flat when compared to the same period last year. Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2017 2016 Months Total gross margin 55.7 % 54.3 % 1 ppt Operating margin 22.4 % 13.6 % 9 ppts in millions Research and development $ 108 $ 108 (1)% Selling, general and administrative $ 213 $ 200 7% Other operating expense (income), net $ (79 ) $ (14 ) 447% Gross margin increased 1 percentage point for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period last year. This increase in gross margin was driven by lower warranty and inventory charges, partially offset by an increase in people-related costs. Research and development expense decreased 1 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period last year. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expense was 15 percent for both the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities in order to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by increases in people-related and acquisition and integration costs. 24 Table of Contents Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was an income of $79 million, which includes gains of $68 million from the Japan pension settlement gain and $8 million from sale of land. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased 9 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by the gain from the Japan pension settlement gain and favorable gross margin, partially offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses. As of January 31, 2017, our headcount was approximately 10,400 compared to 10,300 as of January 31, 2016. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 was $12 million and relates to interest on our senior notes issued in October 2014. Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 28.3 percent and 23.7 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Income tax expense was $43 million and $20 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The income tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 included a net discrete expense of $23 million and $1 million, respectively. The increase in the total income tax expense and discrete expense for the three months ended January 31, 2017, is primarily related to $22 million of tax resulting from the transfer of a portion of the Japanese Employees Pension Fund. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, and several jurisdictions have granted us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The impact of tax incentives decreased the income tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 by $11 million and $8 million , respectively, resulting in a benefit to net income per share (diluted) of approximately $0.07 and $0.05 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Singapore tax incentive is due for renewal in fiscal 2024. For the majority of our entities, the open tax years for the IRS, state and most foreign audit authorities are from August 1, 2014 , through the current tax year. For certain foreign entities, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2006 . Given the number of years and numerous matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, we are unable to estimate the range of possible changes to the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits. At January 31, 2017, our estimated annual effective tax rate is 20 percent excluding discrete items. We determine our interim tax provision using an estimated annual effective tax rate methodology except in jurisdictions where we anticipate a full year loss or we have a year-to-date ordinary loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized. In these jurisdictions, tax expense is computed separately. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower rates, our permanent reinvestment assertion of foreign subsidiary earnings outside of the U.S., reserves for uncertain tax positions, the U.S. federal research and development tax credit and the impact of permanent differences. Segment Overview In fiscal 2016, we completed an organizational change to align our organization with the industries we serve. As a result of this organizational realignment, we have three reportable operating segments: Communications Solutions Group, Electronic Industrial Solutions Group and Services Solutions Group. The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications end market, which includes internet infrastructure, and the aerospace, defense and government end market. The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets. The Services Solutions Group provides repair, calibration and consulting services, and remarkets used Keysight equipment. In addition, our global team of experts provides startup assistance, consulting, optimization and application support across all of our end markets. The profitability of each segment is measured after excluding, among other things, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring and related costs, asset impairments, acquisition and integration costs, share-based compensation, separation and related costs, acquisition related fair value adjustments, interest income and interest expense. 25 Table of Contents Communications Solutions Group The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications end market, which includes internet infrastructure, and the aerospace, defense and government end market. The group provides electronic design and test software, instruments, and systems used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2017 2016 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 434 $ 440 (1)% The Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 declined 1 percent when compared to the same period last year, driven by decline in the aerospace, defense and government market, partially offset by growth in the commercial communications market. Revenue from the commercial communications market represents approximately 59 percent of the Communications Solutions Group for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and increased 2 percent year-over-year. For the three months ended January 31, 2017, revenue growth in Europe, the Americas and Japan was partially offset by decline in Asia Pacific excluding Japan. Commercial communications market growth was driven by growth from 5G and next-generation data center technologies, offset by continued cautious spending across the wireless device value chain. Revenue from the aerospace, defense and government market represents approximately 41 percent of the total Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and decreased 6 percent year-over-year, primarily driven by delayed government funding. For the three months ended January 31, 2017, decline in the Americas, Asia Pacific excluding Japan and Europe was partially offset by growth in Japan. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Communications Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2017 versus the three months ended January 31, 2016. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2017 2016 Months Total gross margin 60.5 % 60.1 % ppt Operating margin 16.7 % 17.7 % (1) ppt in millions Research and development $ 76 $ 76 (1)% Selling, general and administrative $ 117 $ 113 3% Other operating expense (income), net $ (2 ) $ (3 ) (35)% Income from operations $ 72 $ 78 (7)% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2017 improved slightly compared to the same period last year, primarily due to lower inventory charges. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2017 decreased 1 percent compared to the same period last year. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities in order to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2017, increased 3 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily due to increased investment in sales resources. Other operating expense (income) for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 was income of $2 million and $3 million, respectively. 26 Table of Contents Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2017 decreased $6 million on a corresponding revenue decrease of $6 million when compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by increased investment in sales resources. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2017 declined 1 percentage point when compared to the same period last year, driven by higher operating expenses primarily due to increased investment in sales resources. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets, focusing on high-growth applications in the automotive and energy industry and measurement solutions for semiconductor design and manufacturing, consumer electronics, education and general electronics manufacturing. The group provides electronic design and test software, instruments, and systems used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2017 2016 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 192 $ 191 % The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was essentially flat when compared to the same period last year. Growth in semiconductor measurement solutions was offset by a decline in general electronics measurement solutions. For the three months ended January 31, 2017, growth in Asia Pacific excluding Japan was partially offset by declines in the Americas, Europe and Japan. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2017 versus the three months ended January 31, 2016. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2017 2016 Months Total gross margin 59.9 % 57.2 % 3 ppts Operating margin 21.7 % 19.7 % 2 ppts in millions Research and development $ 28 $ 27 3% Selling, general and administrative $ 46 $ 46 1% Other operating expense (income), net $ (1 ) $ (1 ) (20)% Income from operations $ 42 $ 38 10% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased 3 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by favorable product mix impact and lower warranty expense. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased 3 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by continued investments in leading edge technologies. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities in order to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2017, increased 1 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily due to increased investment in sales resources. Other operating expense (income) for both the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 was income of $1 million. 27 Table of Contents Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased $4 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $1 million when compared to the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2017 improved by 2 percentage points when compared to the same period last year, driven by higher gross margins partially offset by higher investment in research and development and sales. Services Solutions Group The Services Solutions Group provides repair, calibration and consulting services, and remarkets used Keysight equipment. In addition to providing repair and calibration support for Keysight equipment, we also calibrate non-Keysight equipment. The group serves the same markets as Keysights Communications Solutions and Electronic Industrial Solutions Groups, providing industry-specific services to deliver complete Keysight solutions and help customers reduce their total cost of ownership for their design and test equipment. This segment was formerly reported as the companys Customer Support and Services segment. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2017 2016 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 100 $ 95 5% The Services Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased 5 percent when compared to the same period last year. For the three months ended January 31, 2017, growth was driven by an increase in sales for our calibration services and remarketed solutions. Revenue grew in the Americas, Japan and Europe, while Asia Pacific excluding Japan was flat. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Services Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2017 versus the three months ended January 31, 2016. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2017 2016 Months Total gross margin 39.4 % 39.6 % ppt Operating margin 14.4 % 13.9 % ppt in millions Research and development $ $ 2 (80)% Selling, general and administrative $ 25 $ 23 9% Other operating expense (income), net $ $ (1 ) (17)% Income from operations $ 14 $ 13 8% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was flat when compared to the same period last year as revenue growth was offset by the impact of less favorable mix. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2017 decreased 80 percent when compared to the same period last year. The decline is primarily driven by a change in the Services Solutions Group's share of centralized investment in research and development. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased 9 percent when compared to the same period last year due to increased investment in sales resources and an increase in people-related costs. Other operating expense (income) for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 was income of zero and $1 million, respectively. 28 Table of Contents Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2017 increased $1 million when compared to the same period last year, on a corresponding revenue increase of $5 million. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was flat compared to the same period last year. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of January 31, 2017 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $896 million as compared to $783 million as of October 31, 2016. As of January 31, 2017, approximately $667 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Under current tax laws, most of the cash could be repatriated to the U.S., but it would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Cash held outside of the U.S. can be used for non-U.S. growth and expansion. Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions, investments in institutional money market funds, and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions in which we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs, in addition to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding, variable pay and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $102 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to net cash provided of $92 million for the same period in 2016. Net income for the first three months of fiscal 2017 increased $45 million. Changes to non-cash income and expenses included a $36 million increase in deferred tax expense, a $1 million decrease to amortization expense, a $2 million increase in share-based compensation expense, a $2 million decline in gain from sale of land, a $5 million decline in excess and obsolete inventory-related charges, and a $2 million decrease in other miscellaneous non-cash expenses as compared to the same period last year. The change in retirement and post-retirement benefits, net for the three months ended January 31, 2017 includes an adjustment for a non-cash gain of $68 million related to a Japan pension settlement gain. The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable provided net operating cash of $18 million during the first three months of fiscal 2017, compared to cash provided of $7 million in the comparable period last year. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable depends upon how effectively we manage the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. The aggregate of employee compensation and benefits, income tax payable and other assets and liabilities used net operating cash of $37 million during the first three months of fiscal 2017, compared to cash used of $18 million in the comparable period last year. The difference is primarily due to increase in income tax and variable compensation payments as compared to the same period last year and other differences due to timing of accruals and collections versus payments between the periods. We contributed $7 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the first three months of fiscal 2017, compared to $10 million in the same period last year. We expect to contribute approximately $25 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2017. For the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, we did not contribute 29 Table of Contents to our U.S. defined benefit plans or U.S. post-retirement benefit plan and we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2017. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017 as compared to $24 million for the same period last year. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $16 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to $34 million in the same period last year. The decrease in capital expenditures is primarily due to the timing of payments. We received $8 million and $10 million of proceeds from the sale of land in the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect that total capital expenditures for the current year will be approximately $100 million. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Cash flows related to financing activities consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance of common stock, and excess tax benefits from share-based plans. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was $21 million compared to cash provided of $25 million for the same period in 2016, primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Credit Facility On January 30, 2017, we entered into a commitment letter, pursuant to which certain lenders have agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility of up to $1.684 billion (the Bridge Facility) for the purpose of providing the financing to support Keysight's acquisition of Ixia. The company incurred issuance costs of $8 million in connection with the Bridge Facility. These costs are included in other current assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the Bridge Facility. In connection with entering into the term credit agreement (described below), on February 15, 2017, the unsecured commitments under the Bridge Facility were automatically reduced in an aggregate principal amount of $400 million. On February 15, 2017, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Facility) that provides for a $450 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 15, 2022. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility permits us to increase the total commitments under this credit facility by up to $150 million in the aggregate on one or more occasions upon request. The Revolving Credit Facility replaced our existing $450 million unsecured credit facility, dated as of September 15, 2014. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes, including to finance, in part, the acquisition of Ixia, the payment of fees and expenses related thereto and the repayment in full of all third-party indebtedness of Ixia and its subsidiaries that becomes due or otherwise defaults upon the consummation of the Ixia acquisition. As of January 31, 2017, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility during the three months ended January 31, 2017. Long-term debt There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the outstanding senior notes in the three months ended January 31, 2017 as compared to the senior notes as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016. On February 15, 2017, we entered into a term credit agreement, which provides for a three-year $400 million delayed draw senior unsecured term loan facility. The term loans will be available to us upon the closing of the Ixia acquisition. The term loan is intended to be used to finance, in part, the Ixia acquisition, the payment of fees and expenses related thereto and the repayment in full of all third-party indebtedness of Ixia and its subsidiaries that becomes due or otherwise defaults upon the consummation of the Ixia acquisition. The commitments under the term credit agreement automatically terminate on the first to occur of (a) the consummation of the Ixia acquisition without the borrowing of any loans under the term credit agreement, (b) the termination of the Merger Agreement to acquire Ixia in accordance with its terms or (c) on October 30, 2017. See Note 17, "Pending Acquisitions", to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details regarding the pending acquisition. Other There were no material changes from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016, to our contractual commitments (including non-cancellable operating leases) in the first three months of 2017. There were no material changes in our liabilities towards uncertain tax positions from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016. We are unable to accurately predict when these will be realized or released. However, 30 Table of Contents it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.