Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the historical financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Potential indemnification liabilities to Agilent pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for any liabilities associated with assets used by our business; our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the 19 Table of Contents distribution; any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by Agilent for our benefit, unless they are liabilities related to assets used in the Agilent business; any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in the registration statement or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or the company and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. If we are required to indemnify Agilent under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. In connection with our separation from Agilent, Agilent will indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Agilent's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements with Agilent, Agilent agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Agilent has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Agilent will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Agilent will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, Agilent's insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Agilent or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We will be subject to continuing contingent liabilities of Agilent following the separation. After the separation, there will be several significant areas where the liabilities of Agilent may become our obligations. For example, under the Code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the Agilent U.S. consolidated group during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire Agilent U.S. consolidated group for that taxable period. Consequently, if Agilent is unable to pay the consolidated U.S. federal income tax liability for a prior period, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to it under the tax matters agreement between us and Agilent. Other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. There could be significant liability if the distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. A condition to the distribution is that Agilent received an opinion of Baker & McKenzie LLP, tax counsel to Agilent, regarding the qualification of the separation and the distribution as a reorganization within the meaning of Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Agilent and Keysight, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, Agilent and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the opinion, and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the distribution were determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Agilent and its shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. For example, if the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, Agilent would for U.S. federal income tax purposes be treated as if it had sold the Keysight common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and Agilent's shareholders, who are subject to U.S. federal income tax, would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Keysight common stock received in the distribution. In addition, if the separation and distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, Agilent (and, under the tax matters agreement described below, Keysight) could incur significant tax liabilities under U.S. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law. Under the tax matters agreement between Agilent and Keysight, we are generally required to indemnify Agilent against taxes incurred by Agilent that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code. Under the tax matters agreement between Agilent and Keysight, we may also be required to indemnify Agilent for other contingent tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions for a two-year period after the separation. To preserve the tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Agilent of the separation and distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we have entered into with Agilent, we will be restricted from taking any action that prevents the separation and distribution from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under the tax matters agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, we are prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from entering into acquisition, merger, liquidation, sale and stock redemption transactions with respect to our stock if such transactions, taken as a whole, would result in one or more persons acquiring forty percent (40%) or more of the outstanding Keysight stock. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that it may believe to be in the best interests of our shareholders or that might increase the value of our business. In addition, under the tax matters agreement, we may be required to indemnify Agilent against any such tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of Keysight's stock or assets, even if we did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject as an independent, publicly-traded company. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of Agilent, and we believe that our financial reporting and internal controls were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. However, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act. As an independent, publicly-traded company, we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, and we are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that we obtain a report by our independent registered public accounting firm expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations may place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure