Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Unaudited) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence of political or economic instability, increased trade tension and tightening of export control regulations, impact of pandemic conditions such as the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19"), the impact of volatile weather caused by environmental conditions such as climate change, and our and the combined group's estimated or anticipated future results of operations, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. 22 Table of Contents Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Overview and Executive Summary Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a technology company that helps enterprises, service providers and governments accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world by providing electronic design and test solutions that are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacture, installation, optimization and secure operation of electronics systems in the communications, networking and electronics industries. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle, including start-up assistance, asset management, up-time services, application services and instrument calibration and repair. We invest in research and development ("R&D") to align our business with available markets and position the company for growth. Our R&D efforts focus on improvements to existing software and hardware products and development to support new software and hardware product introductions and complete customer solutions aligned to the industries we serve. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuous flow of innovative, high-quality software, customer solutions, products and services. We remain committed to investment in R&D and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities to capture future growth. COVID-19 pandemic In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 as a global pandemic. In response to the rapid global spread of the virus, national, state, and local governments issued orders and recommendations to attempt to reduce the further spread of the disease. Such orders included movement control and shelter-in-place orders, travel restrictions, limitations on public gatherings, school closures, social distancing requirements and the closure of all but critical and essential services and infrastructure. Our employees, customers, suppliers and vendors have been subject to these restrictions and orders and have been similarly impacted. Working with local governments and health officials to implement health and safety measures at all of our locations, we have re-opened most sites worldwide and significantly ramped our production and services operations. All of our essential production facilities around the world were open during the first fiscal quarter, and as of the date of this Form 10-Q. For discussion of risks related to COVID-19 on our operations, business results and financial condition, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020 Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2021 were $1,223 million, an increase of 7 percent when compared to the same period last year. Orders associated with acquisitions and foreign currency movements each had a favorable impact of 1 percent on the year-over-year order growth. Orders increased across all regions, more significantly in Asia Pacific. Revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2021 was $1,180 million, an increase of 8 percent when compared to the same period last year. Revenue associated with acquisitions and foreign currency movements each had a favorable impact of 1 percent on the year-over-year revenue growth. Revenue for both the Communications Solutions Group and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group increased year over year driven by strength in aerospace, defense and government, semiconductor measurement and general electronics measurement, partially offset by a decline in commercial communications. Revenue from the Communications Solutions Group and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group represented 72 percent and 28 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the current period. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2021 was $172 million compared to $163 million for the same period last year. The increase in net income was primarily driven by higher revenue volume and lower income tax expense, partially offset by unfavorable mix and lower operating income due to a one-time prior-period gain related to an insurance settlement. Outlook Our strategy of bringing first-to-market solutions that help customers develop new technologies and accelerate innovation provides a platform for long-term growth. We expect our customers to continue to make R&D investments in certain next-generation technologies. We are still in the early market stages for emerging technologies, such as 5G, next-generation automotive, internet of things ("IoT") and defense modernization and expect technology investments to continue. We continue to closely monitor the current macro environment related to trade, tariffs, monetary and fiscal policies, as well as pandemics or epidemics, such as the recent COVID-19 outbreak. We have complied and will continue to comply with recent U.S. Department of Commerce export control regulations. We remain confident in our long-term secular market growth trends and the strength of our operating model. 23 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There were no material changes during the three months ended January 31, 2021 to the critical accounting estimates described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2020. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Accounting standard updates in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 that have been issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or other standards-setting bodies are not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our condensed consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge short-term currency movements based on a rolling period of up to twelve months. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations - Three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Returns are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2021 2020 Months (in millions) Revenue: Products $ 970 $ 902 7% Services and other 210 193 9% Total revenue $ 1,180 $ 1,095 8% The following table provides the percent change in revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2021 by geographic region including and excluding the impact of foreign currency movements as compared to the same period last year. Year over Year Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2021 Geographic Region Actual Currency Adjusted Americas 5 % 5 % Europe 8 % 5 % Asia Pacific 10 % 9 % Total revenue 8 % 7 % Revenue grew across all regions, including double-digit growth in Asia Pacific. Currency had a favorable impact on revenue of 3 percentage points in Europe and 1 percentage point in Asia Pacific for the three months ended January 31, 2021. 24 Table of Contents Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2021 2020 Months Total gross margin 59.9% 59.8 % Operating margin 18.0% 18.5 % (1) ppt in millions Research and development $ 199 $ 187 7% Selling, general and administrative $ 301 $ 300 Other operating expense (income), net $ (5) $ (35) (85)% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2021 was flat compared to the same period last year, as the favorable impact from higher revenue volume was offset by unfavorable mix and higher warranty costs. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased 7 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by greater investment in key growth opportunities in our end markets, leading-edge technologies, incremental costs of an acquired business and higher infrastructure-related costs, partially offset by declines in discretionary spending due to COVID-19 related restrictions and people-related costs. As a percentage of revenue, R&D expense was 17 percent for both the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 was flat compared to the same period last year, as incremental costs of an acquired business, higher people-related costs and higher infrastructure-related costs were offset by reductions in travel and marketing-related costs due to COVID-19 related restrictions. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2021 was income of $5 million compared to income of $35 million for the three months ended January 31, 2020, which included a one-time gain of $32 million on an insurance settlement. Operating margin decreased 1 percentage point for the three months ended January 31, 2021 compared to the same period last year, driven by unfavorable mix and lower operating income due to a one-time prior-period gain from an insurance settlement , partially offset by favorable impact from flat selling, general and administration expenses and higher revenue volume. As of January 31, 2021, our headcount was approximately 14,000 compared to approximately 13,600 at January 31, 2020. The increase in headcount was primarily driven by acquisitions. Interest Income and Expense Interest income for the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020 was $1 million and $6 million, respectively, and primarily relates to interest earned on our cash balances. Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020 was $20 million and $19 million, respectively, and primarily relates to interest on our senior notes. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net for the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020 was income of $2 million and $12 million, respectively, and primarily includes net income related to our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans (interest cost, expected return on assets and amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service credits) and the change in fair value of our equity investments. Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 11.6 percent and 19.1 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The income tax expense was $ 23 million and $ 39 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The income tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 included a net discrete benefit of $ 11 million. The income tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2020 included a net discrete expense of $3 million. The decrease in tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 is primarily due to the increased benefit of U.S. state R&D credits and a reduction in U.S. states taxes on foreign earnings. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, that have granted us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The impact of the tax incentives decreased the income tax provision by $ 10 million and $ 15 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, resulting in a benefit to net income per share (diluted) of approximately $ 0.05 and 25 Table of Contents $ 0.08 for the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Singapore tax incentive is due for renewal in 2024. The incentive in Malaysia is due for renewal in 2025. The open tax years for the IRS and most states are from November 1, 2016 through the current tax year. Keysights 2018 U.S. federal income tax return is currently under examination by the IRS. This is the year in which the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted and the one-time U.S. tax on earnings not previously repatriated to the U.S., known as the Transition Tax, was reported. For the majority of our foreign entities, the open tax years are from November 1, 2015 through the current tax year. For certain foreign entities, the tax years remain open, at most, back to the year 2008. At this time, management does not believe that the outcome of any ongoing examination will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. If resolution of any tax issues addressed in our current open examinations are inconsistent with managements expectations, we may be required to adjust our tax provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Keysights 2008 Malaysian income tax return was examined by the Malaysian Tax Authority. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, Keysight paid income taxes and penalties to the Malaysian Tax Authority of $ 68 million on gains related to intellectual property rights. Our appeal to the Special Commissioners of Income Tax in Malaysia was unsuccessful. An appeal has now been lodged with the High Court. The company believes there are numerous defenses to the current assessment; the statute of limitations for the 2008 tax year in Malaysia was closed, and the income in question is exempt from tax in Malaysia. The company is pursuing all avenues to resolve this issue favorably for the company. At January 31, 2021, our estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2021 is an expense of 16.9 percent excluding discrete items. We determine our interim tax provision using an estimated annual effective tax rate methodology except in jurisdictions where we anticipate a full year loss or we have a year-to-date ordinary loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized. In these jurisdictions, tax expense is computed separately. Our estimated annual effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the beneficial impact of the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower rates and the U.S. federal research and development tax credit, offset by the expense impact of the U.S. GILTI tax on earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions net of U.S. foreign tax credits and other U.S. tax reform deductions and reserves for uncertain tax positions. We do not recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact the GILTI tax expense in future years. We recognize the tax expense related to GILTI in each year in which the tax is incurred. Segment Overview The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related balances, acquisition and integration costs, a gain on an insurance settlement related to northern California wildfires, interest income, interest expense and other items. Communications Solutions Group The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The groups solutions consist of electronic design and test software, electronic measurement instruments, systems and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of electronic equipment and networks. Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2021 2020 Months (in millions) Total revenue $ 852 $ 818 4% The Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased 4 percent compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements had a 1 percent favorable impact on the year-over-year revenue growth. Revenue growth in the aerospace, defense and government market was partially offset by a decline in the commercial communications market. Revenue grew across all regions for the three months ended January 31, 2021. Revenue from the commercial communications market represented 65 percent of the total Communications Solutions Group revenue for the current period and declined 3 percent year over year. For the three months ended January 31, 2021, revenue declines in Asia Pacific and the Americas were partially offset by an increase in Europe. The decline was largely driven by increased China trade restrictions. We continue to see strength driven by on-going global 5G deployments, the roll-out of new 5G devices, and continued investments in 400G and 800G ethernet for data centers. 26 Table of Contents Revenue from the aerospace, defense and government market represented 35 percent of the total Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2021, and increased 20 percent year over year. For the three months ended January 31, 2021, revenue increased across all regions. Revenue growth was mainly driven by continued investment in electromagnetic spectrum operations, space, and new commercial technologies like 5G and early 6G research. The aerospace, defense and government market remained strong in the U.S. with increased year-end spending on major defense and government programs, complemented by growth in China and Europe. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table provides the Communications Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2021 versus the three months ended January 31, 2020. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2021 2020 Months Total gross margin 64.6 % 65.7 % (1) ppt Operating margin 26.3 % 24.6 % 2 ppts in millions Research and development $ 143 $ 139 3% Selling, general and administrative $ 188 $ 201 (6)% Other operating expense (income), net $ (4) $ (3) 36% Income from operations $ 224 $ 201 11% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2021 decreased 1 percentage point compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by unfavorable mix and higher warranty costs, partially offset by higher revenue volume. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased 3 percent when compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by greater investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets, leading-edge technologies and higher infrastructure-related costs, partially offset by a decline in travel costs due to COVID-19 related restrictions. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 decreased 6 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower selling, marketing and infrastructure-related costs, and travel costs due to COVID-19 related restrictions and lower discretionary expenses. Other operating expense (income), net was income of $4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021 compared to income of $3 million for the same period last year. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased $23 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $34 million compared to the same period last year. Operating margin increased 2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2021 compared to the same period last year, driven by declines in operating expenses, partially offset by a decline in gross margin as noted above. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions and related services across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets, focusing on high-value applications in the automotive and energy industry and measurement solutions for consumer electronics, education, general electronics design and manufacturing, and semiconductor design and manufacturing. The group provides electronic measurement instruments, design and test software and systems and related services used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment. With the acquisition of Eggplant, a leading software test automation company, we now have the ability to provide automated software test capabilities that include artificial intelligence and machine learning to automatically identify, build and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. 27 Table of Contents Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2021 2020 Months (in millions) Total revenue $ 328 $ 277 18% The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased 18 percent compared to the same period last year and increased 15 percent excluding the impact of acquisitions. Foreign currency movements had a favorable impact of 2 percent on the year-over-year revenue growth. The revenue increase was primarily driven by growth in semiconductor measurement solutions and general electronics measurement due to continued investments in next-generation semiconductor technologies and continued economic recovery in general electronics measurement, partially offset by declines in automotive and energy. Revenue growth in Asia Pacific and the Americas was partially offset by a slight decline in Europe. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2021 versus the three months ended January 31, 2020. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2021 2020 Months Total gross margin 63.4 % 61.1 % 2 ppts Operating margin 29.4 % 26.3 % 3 ppts in millions Research and development $ 48 $ 41 18% Selling, general and administrative $ 65 $ 57 15% Other operating expense (income), net $ (1) $ (1) Income from operations $ 96 $ 73 32% Gross margin increased 2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2021 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by favorable mix and higher revenue volume, partially offset by increased warranty costs. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased 18 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by greater investment in key growth opportunities in our end markets, leading-edge technologies and incremental costs of an acquired business. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased 15 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily due to incremental costs of an acquired business and higher selling, marketing and infrastructure-related costs. Other operating expense (income) for each of the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020 was income of $1 million. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased $23 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $51 million compared to the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased 3 percentage points when compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by gross margin gains as noted above. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of January 31, 2021 consisted of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $1,903 million as compared to $1,767 million as of October 31, 2020. As of January 31, 2021, approximately $1,346 million of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash was held outside of the United States in our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of investments in institutional 28 Table of Contents money market funds, short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions in which we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs. In addition, a few locations that are unable to access internal funding have access to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Cash generated from our operations provides our primary source of cash flows. Given the uncertain duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we can experience significant fluctuations in our future cash from operations from the ongoing impacts of the pandemic because of the adverse global macroeconomic environment and our customers ability to pay. For further discussion of risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations, business results and financial condition, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding, variable pay, and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $295 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021 compared to $197 million for the same period last year. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2021 increased $9 million compared to the same period last year. Non-cash adjustments to net income were higher by $32 million due to a prior-period adjustment to reflect a $32 million gain from insurance recovery of property, plant and equipment as cash from investing activity, a $4 million increase in each of share-based compensation expense and depreciation, a $3 million increase in amortization and a $6 million increase from other miscellaneous non-cash activities, partially offset by a $17 million decrease in deferred tax expense. The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable used net cash of $34 million during the first three months of fiscal 2021 compared to net cash used of $65 million in the comparable period last year. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable depends upon the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. The aggregate of employee compensation and benefits, income taxes payable, deferred revenue and other assets and liabilities provided net operating cash of $13 million during the first three months of fiscal 2021 compared to net cash used of $11 million in the comparable period last year. The increase is primarily due to higher cash inflow from deferred revenue and lower variable compensation payments, partially offset by a decrease in cash from income taxes payable as compared to the same period last year. We contributed $3 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the first three months of fiscal 2021 compared to $2 million in the sam e period last year. For the remainder of 2021, we expect to contribute $6 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans. For the three months ended January 31, 2021, we did not contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans or U.S. post-retirement benefit plan. For the remainder of 2021, we are evaluating potential contributions to our U.S. Defined Benefit Plan or U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plan, although contributions are not required. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $124 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021 as compared to $5 million for the same period last year. For the three months ended January 31, 2021, we used $96 million, net of $11 million cash acquired, for an acquisition of Sanjole Inc., a leader in wireless test and measurement solutions for protocol decoding and interoperability. For the three months ended January 31, 2021 and 2020, investments in property, plant and equipment were $28 million and $32 million, respectively. For the three months ended January 31, 2020, we received $32 million of insurance proceeds for property, plant and equipment damaged in the 2017 northern California wildfires, and we used $5 million for an acquisition. We anticipate total fiscal 2021 capital spending to be approximately $175 million. 29 Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Financing Activities For the three months ended January 31, 2021, we used $43 million for financing activities, which included $49 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, $20 million for treasury stock repurchases, $2 million for payment of acquisition-related contingent consideration, partially offset by proceeds of $28 million from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. For the three months ended January 31, 2020, we used $99 million for financing activities, including $76 million for treasury stock repurchases and $49 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by proceeds of $26 million from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. On November 18, 2020, our board of directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $750 million of the companys common stock. The stock repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at the companys discretion and does not have an expiration date. See "Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" under Part II Item 2 for additional information. Our previously approved 2019 stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock was nearly exhausted. Short-Term Debt Revolving Credit Facility We maintain a credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) that provides for a $450 million, five-year unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 15, 2022. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility permits us to increase the total commitments under this credit facility by up to $150 million (to a total of $600 million) in the aggregate on one or more occasions upon request. We may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2021 and October 31, 2020, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility during the three months ended January 31, 2021. Long-Term Debt There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the senior notes during the three months ended January 31, 2021 as compared to the senior notes described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2020. Other There were no other material changes to the contractual commitments from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2020. There were no material changes in our liabilities toward uncertain tax positions from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2020. We are unable to accurately predict when these will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.