ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed combined and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, the ability of our products to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, and the existence of economic instability, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a measurement company providing core electronic measurement solutions to communications and electronics industries. On November 1, 2014, Keysight became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution by Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent") of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of Keysight to Agilent's shareholders (the "Separation"). Each Agilent shareholder of record as of the close of business on October 22, 2014 received one share of Keysight common stock for every two shares of Agilent common stock held on the record date, resulting in the distribution of approximately 167 million shares of Keysight common stock. Keysight's Registration Statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on October 6, 2014. Keysight's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "KEYS" on the New York Stock Exchange on November 3, 2014. Prior to the distribution, Agilent transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of the electronic measurement business to Keysight in August 2014 ("the Capitalization"). Combined financial statements prior to the Capitalization were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from Agilents consolidated financial statements and accounting records. For the three and six months ended April 30, 2014, expenses were allocated to us using estimates that we consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by us. Following the Capitalization, the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our subsidiaries. Agilent continues to provide some services on a transitional basis for a fee, which are partially offset by other income from Keysight services provided to Agilent. These services are received or provided under a transition services agreement. We do not expect the net costs associated with the transition services agreement to be materially different than the historical costs that have been allocated to us related to these same services. We are incurring other incremental costs as an independent, publicly traded company as compared to the costs historically allocated to us by Agilent. These incremental costs are estimated to be approximately $20 million on an annual pre-tax basis. In addition, for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015, we recognized non-recurring separation costs of $5 million and $12 million, respectively, and for the three and six months ended April 30, 2014, we recognized non-recurring separation costs of $17 million and $25 million, respectively. We expect to recognize additional non-recurring separation costs, which are currently estimated to range from $15 million to $20 million through fiscal 2016. These costs are expected to include, among other things, branding, legal, accounting and other advisory fees and other costs to separate and transition from Agilent. 23 Table of Contents Executive Summary We provide electronic measurement instruments and systems and related software, software design tools, and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. We plan to invest in product development to address the changing needs of the market and facilitate growth. We are investing in research and development to design measurement solutions that will satisfy the changing needs of our customers. These opportunities are being driven by the need for faster data rates and new form factors, and by evolving technology standards. In fiscal 2014, we implemented changes in our organizational structure that resulted in the formation of two reportable operating segments, measurement solutions and customer support and services. The measurement solutions segment is primarily the hardware and associated software businesses serving the electronic measurement market. The customer support and services segment provides repair and calibration of the hardware measurement solutions and the resale of used instrument equipment. Total orders for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 decreased 11 percent and 6 percent, respectively, compared to the same periods last year and decreased 8 percent and 4 percent, respectively, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Order decreases in industrial, computer and semiconductor and communication test market segments were partially offset by increases in aerospace and defense. Net revenue of $740 million and $1,441 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 was flat and increased 2 percent, respectively, compared to the same periods last year and increased 3 percent and 5 percent, respectively, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Net income for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 was $96 million and $166 million, respectively, compared to $110 million and $184 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods last year. Looking forward, we believe the long-term growth rate of our markets is 3 to 4 percent. We intend to leverage our unique formula of hardware plus software plus people to create value for our customers and shareholders. Our focus is on delivering value through innovative electronic design and test solutions as well as improving our operational efficiency as an independent company. Accordingly, we initiated several programs that will provide operational savings over the next 24 months, including enhancement of our voluntary retirement program, the closure of our U.S. defined benefit plan to new entrants and other initiatives. These cost reduction initiatives in conjunction with our operating model discipline, will enable us to continue to invest in research and development for future growth. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our condensed combined and consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the U.S. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed combined and consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, allocation methods and allocated expenses from Agilent, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, restructuring, warranty, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets and accounting for income taxes. For a detailed description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the condensed combined and consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. 24 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our condensed combined and consolidated statement of operations. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed combined and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (up to a rolling twelve-month period). Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations Orders and Net Revenue In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Revenue reflects the delivery and acceptance of the products and services as defined on the customer's terms and conditions. Cancellations are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Year over Year Change April 30, April 30, Three Six 2015 2014 2015 2014 Months Months (in millions) Orders $ 697 $ 782 $ 1,388 $ 1,481 (11)% (6)% Net revenue: Products $ 630 $ 627 $ 1,226 $ 1,190 1% 3% Services and other 110 116 215 224 (6)% (4)% Total net revenue $ 740 $ 743 $ 1,441 $ 1,414 % 2% Total orders for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 decreased 11 percent and 6 percent, respectively, compared to the same periods last year and decreased 8 percent and 4 percent, respectively, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. For both the three and six months ended April 30, 2015, orders had modest growth in aerospace and defense, offset by declines in the industrial, computer and semiconductors and communications test market segments. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 on a geographic basis, orders in the Americas declined 5 percent and 4 percent excluding the impact of currency. Asia Pacific excluding Japan declined 17 percent and 16 percent excluding currency fluctuations. Japan orders grew 2 percent and 15 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Europe declined 20 percent and 12 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. For the six months ended April 30, 2015 orders declined 1 percent in the Americas and 16 percent in Europe and 10 percent excluding currency. Japan declined 2 percent and grew 9 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Orders declined 8 percent in Asia Pacific excluding Japan and 7 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Net revenue of $740 million and $1,441 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015, respectively, was flat and increased 2 percent, respectively, when compared to the same periods last year and increased 3 percent and 5 percent, respectively, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. For the three months ended April 30, 2015, revenue from the Americas increased 19 percent with growth in aerospace and defense and industrial, computer and semiconductors test. Asia Pacific excluding Japan declined 14 percent with marginal impact from currency fluctuations and declines in all market segments. Europe declined 6 percent and grew 4 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, with declines in the aerospace and defense and communications markets, partially offset by growth in industrial, computers and semiconductors test market segments. Japan was flat, growing 13 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, with growth in industrial, computers and semiconductors and communications test markets, partially offset with declines in aerospace and defense. For the six months ended April 30, 2015, revenue from the Americas increased 17 percent with growth in aerospace and defense and industrial, computer and semiconductors test. Asia Pacific excluding Japan declined 5 percent with and without the impact of currency fluctuations, with declines in industrial, computers and semiconductors and communications test market segments, partially offset by growth in aerospace and defense test. Europe declined 6 percent and grew 1 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, with declines in all market 25 Table of Contents segments. Japan declined 7 percent, growing 4 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, with growth in the communications test market, partially offset by decline in aerospace and defense. Communications test revenue, representing approximately one third of our total revenue for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015, declined year-over-year with decreases in wireless manufacturing, partially offset with growth in wireless R&D and broadband communications. The decrease in wireless manufacturing reflects the difficult compares to last years strength in 4G base station/infrastructure manufacturing for China. Weakness in the smartphone/device manufacturing segment also continues. Wireless R&D grew year-over-year with new technologies driving investments, especially from wireless chipset players. Aerospace and defense business, representing approximately 21 percent and 23 percent of our total revenue for the three months and six months ended April 30, 2015, respectively, decreased marginally year-over-year. Strength in the Americas was offset by declines in all other regions. Industrial, computer and semiconductor test revenue, representing approximately 46 percent of our total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2015, saw modest growth year-over-year. Strength in the Americas, Europe and Japan was partially offset by decline in Asia Pacific excluding Japan. For the six months ended April 30, 2015, industrial, computer and semiconductor test revenue, representing approximately 44 percent of our total revenue, saw modest decline year-over-year. Growth in the Americas was offset by declines in Japan, Europe and Asia Pacific excluding Japan. Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Year over year change April 30, April 30, Three Six 2015 2014 2015 2014 Months Months Total gross margin 56.3 % 55.9 % 55.5 % 55.7 % ppt ppt Operating margin 17.4 % 17.1 % 14.5 % 15.4 % ppt (1) ppt in millions Research and development $ 96 $ 89 192 $ 179 7% 7% Selling, general and administrative $ 192 $ 199 398 $ 390 (4)% 2% Gross margin was flat for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same periods last year. For the three months ended April 30, 2015, gross margin was positively impacted by a higher mix of revenue from research and development versus manufacturing products and applications and lower warranty charges, partially offset by higher infrastructure costs. For the six months ended April 30, 2015, gross margin was flat primarily due to lower depreciation, warranty and manufacturing variances, offset by higher inventory charges, people costs and infrastructure charges. Research and development expense increased 7 percent in each of the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same periods last year, primarily due to higher project spending and prototyping expenses, infrastructure-related costs and share-based compensation expense, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities in order to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 4 percent for the three months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower separation costs and favorable impact of currency movements. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2 percent for the six months ended April 30, 2015 compared to the same period last year due to higher infrastructure-related costs, advertising and marketing expenses and share-based compensation expense, partially offset by lower separation costs and the favorable impact of currency movements. Operating margin for the three months ended April 30, 2015 remained flat compared to the same period last year on flat revenue and gross margin, with higher research and development expenses offset by decreases in other operating expenses. Operating margin for the six months ended April 30, 2015 decreased 1 percent compared to the same period last year on higher revenue and flat gross margin, with higher research and development expenses and other operating expenses. At April 30, 2015, our headcount was approximately 9,600 as compared to approximately 9,300 at April 30, 2014. 26 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 was $11 million and $23 million, respectively, as compared to zero for both comparable periods last year, and relates to interest on our senior notes issued in October 2014. Income Taxes Our combined and consolidated financial statements for periods prior to November 1, 2014 reflect the calculation of certain deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities based on a separate return methodology. Subsequent to the Separation, we are filing tax returns on our own behalf and certain current and non-current deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been adjusted to reflect our stand-alone income tax positions. As of the Separation date, as a result of no longer reporting under the separate return methodology, current and non-current deferred tax assets decreased by approximately $6 million and $35 million, respectively. The net decrease in non-current deferred tax assets of $35 million was primarily due to the decrease in the deferred tax assets related to tax attributes of $83 million offset by a decrease in the deferred tax liability related to foreign unremitted earnings of approximately $53 million. The non-current deferred tax liabilities increased by $2 million as of the Separation date. As of April 30, 2015, we continue to include a best estimate of the deferred tax liability for foreign unremitted earnings due to the separation as zero. Excess foreign tax credits associated with unremitted earnings are not recorded as an asset as they do not represent a separate deferred asset until earnings are remitted. However, unremitted foreign taxes reduce deferred tax liabilities associated with outside basis differences related to the investment in a foreign subsidiary to the extent the credit reduces a deferred tax liability of the investment. We continue to have ongoing discussions with Agilent regarding the allocation of certain deferred tax liability balances related to foreign unremitted earnings in accordance with the separation agreements. The companys effective tax rate was 21.7 percent and 17.2 percent for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015, respectively. The company's effective tax rate was 14.1 percent and 16.4 percent for the three and six months ended April 30, 2014, respectively. The income tax expense was $26 million and $34 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015, respectively. The income tax expense was $18 million and $36 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2014, respectively. The income tax provision for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 included a net discrete expense of $3 million and a net discrete benefit of $7 million, respectively. The income tax provision for the three and six months ended April 30, 2014 included a net discrete expense of $3 million and $12 million, respectively, primarily due to the recognition of tax expense related to the repatriation of earnings to the U.S., offset somewhat by the settlement of an IRS audit in the U.S. Keysight enjoys tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most notably in Singapore. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require that certain conditions be met, including thresholds of employment, ownership of certain assets as well as specific type of investment activities within Singapore. As a result of the Singapore tax incentive that was finalized this quarter, the current income tax provision decreased by $21 million resulting in a net income per share (diluted) benefit of approximately $0.12 per share for the six months ended April 30, 2015. Further, the discrete impact to the tax provision was a decrease of $6 million, resulting in a net income per share (diluted) benefit of approximately $0.03 per share related to the fiscal 2014 impact. The Singapore tax incentive is due for renewal in fiscal 2024. For the majority of our entities, the open tax years for the IRS, state and most foreign audit authorities are from August 1, 2014 through the current tax year. For certain historical Agilent foreign entities that Keysight retained as part of the separation, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2005. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that a change to our unrecognized tax benefits will occur in the next twelve months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitation or a tax audit settlement. At April 30, 2015, our estimate of annual effective tax rate is 20.6 percent excluding discrete items and 17.2 percent including discrete items. We determine our interim tax provision using an estimated annual effective tax rate methodology except in jurisdictions where we anticipate a full year loss or we have a year-to-date ordinary loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized. In these jurisdictions, tax expense is computed separately. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the impact of permanent differences, reserves for uncertain tax positions, the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower rates and our permanent reinvestment assertion of foreign subsidiary earnings outside of the U.S. Segment Overview We have two reportable operating segments, measurement solutions and customer support and services. The measurement solutions segment is primarily the hardware and associated software businesses serving the electronic measurement market. The 27 Table of Contents customer support and services segment provides repair and calibration of the hardware measurement solutions and the resale of used instrument equipment. Measurement Solutions Business Our measurement solutions business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems with related software and software design tools that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. We provide startup assistance, consulting, optimization and application support throughout the customers product lifecycle. Our electronic measurement solutions serve the following markets: communications test, aerospace and defense test, and industrial, computer and semiconductor test. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Year over Year Change April 30, April 30, Three Six 2015 2014 2015 2014 Months Months (in millions) (in millions) Net revenue $ 638 $ 640 $ 1,244 $ 1,214 % 2 % Measurement solutions revenue for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 was flat and increased 2 percent, respectively, when compared to the same periods last year, increasing 3 percent and 5 percent, respectively, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. For the three months ended April 30, 2015, growth in industrial, computers and semiconductors was offset by declines in aerospace and defense and the communications test markets. For the six months ended April 30, 2015, the increase in revenue is attributed to growth in the aerospace and defense and communications test markets. Looking forward, near term we believe the market has softened, particularly in communications. In aerospace and defense, overall we expect mixed results with slow growth in the United States, offset by declines in other regions. There are positives and negatives across the industrial, computer and semiconductor end markets, and overall macroeconomic indicators remain mixed. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the measurement solutions business' margins, expenses and income from operations for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 versus the three and six months ended April 30, 2014. Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Year over Year Change April 30, April 30, Three Six 2015 2014 2015 2014 Months Months Total gross margin 59.3 % 58.1 % 58.5 % 57.9 % 1 ppt 1 ppt Operating margin 20.7 % 20.5 % 19.3 % 18.9 % in millions Research and development $ 91 $ 85 $ 180 $ 170 7% 6% Selling, general and administrative $ 155 $ 155 $ 308 $ 303 % 2% Income from operations $ 132 $ 131 $ 239 $ 230 1% 4% Gross margin for the three months ended April 30, 2015 increased slightly compared to the same period last year primarily due to reductions in people costs and manufacturing variances. Gross margin for the six months ended April 30, 2015 increased slightly compared to the same period last year primarily due to lower depreciation, people costs and manufacturing variances, partially offset by higher inventory charges. For the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 research and development expense increased 7 percent and 6 percent respectively, when compared to the same periods last year. Increases were primarily driven by higher project spending and prototyping expenses and infrastructure-related costs, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was flat, compared to the same period last year. This was primarily driven by increases in infrastructure-related cost and advertising and marketing expenses, offset by 28 Table of Contents the favorable impact of currency movements. It increased 2 percent for the six months ended April 30, 2015, driven by higher infrastructure-related costs and advertising and marketing expenses partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. Operating margin for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 was flat when compared to the same periods last year on higher gross margin, offset by higher operating expenses. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 increased $1 million and $9 million, respectively, on a corresponding revenue decrease of $2 million and increase of $30 million, respectively, when compared to the same period last year. Customer Support and Services Business The customer support and services business provides repair and calibration services for our installed base instrument customers and facilitates the resale of used equipment. Our customer support and services business broadly addresses the same markets as the measurement solutions business, which includes the communications, aerospace and defense and industrial, computer and semiconductor test markets. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Year over Year Change April 30, April 30, Three Six 2015 2014 2015 2014 Months Months (in millions) (in millions) Net revenue $ 102 $ 103 $ 197 $ 200 (1)% (2 )% Customer support and services revenue for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 decreased 1 percent and 2 percent, respectively, when compared to the same periods last year and increased 5 percent and 2 percent, respectively, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Growth in calibration services and re-marketing sales of used equipment was partially offset by declines in the equipment repair business due to a reduction in extended warranty revenue as a result of extension of the standard warranty term from one to three years. Looking forward, while the customer support and services business will be impacted by the same market trends as the measurement solutions business, it is typically less variable as orders and revenue are primarily driven from the existing installed base of previously purchased measurement solutions products and less impacted by economic cycles. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the customer support and services business' margins, expenses and income from operations for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 versus the three and six months ended April 30, 2014. Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Year over Year Change April 30, April 30, Three Six 2015 2014 2015 2014 Months Months Total gross margin 43.8 % 47.4 % 42.9 % 46.9 % (4 ) ppts (4 ) ppts Operating margin 17.7 % 25.0 % 15.8 % 22.6 % (7 ) ppts (7 ) ppts in millions Research and development $ 3 $ 2 $ 6 $ 5 20% 9% Selling, general and administrative $ 24 $ 21 $ 48 $ 44 15% 10% Income from operations $ 18 $ 26 $ 31 $ 45 (30)% (31)% Gross margin for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 decreased 4 percentage points for both periods compared to the same periods last year, primarily due to higher people costs and infrastructure-related costs as well as an unfavorable service mix with a higher proportion of lower-margin calibration services. 29 Table of Contents Research and development expense for customer support and services represents the segment's share of centralized investment. Research and development expenses for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 increased 20 percentage points and 9 percentage points, respectively, compared to the same periods last year. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 increased 15 percentage points and 10 percentage points, respectively, when compared to the same periods last year due to higher field selling costs and increases in infrastructure-related costs. Operating margin for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 decreased 7 percentage points for both periods compared to the same periods last year due to reductions in gross margin and increased costs. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three and six months ended April 30, 2015 decreased $8 and $14 million, respectively, on corresponding revenue decreases of $1 million and $3 million, respectively, when compared to the same period last year. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of April 30, 2015 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $894 million as compared to $810 million as of October 31, 2014. As of April 30, 2015 , approximately $763 million of our cash and cash equivalents is held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Most of the amounts held outside of the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. We are in discussions with Agilent regarding the allocation of certain deferred tax liability balances related to foreign unremitted earnings in accordance with the separation agreements, and under the currently existing circumstances, non-current deferred tax liabilities have decreased approximately $53 million, which includes our best estimate of zero for the deferred tax liability related to foreign unremitted earnings. Excess foreign tax credits associated with unremitted earnings are not recorded as an asset as they do not represent a separate deferred asset until earnings are remitted. However, unremitted foreign taxes reduce deferred tax liabilities associated with outside basis differences related to the investment in a foreign subsidiary to the extent the credit reduces a deferred tax liability of the investment. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $160 million for the six months ended April 30, 2015 compared to cash provided of $275 million for the same period in 2014. In the six months ended April 30, 2015 , we paid approximately $29 million under our variable and incentive pay programs. Net cash paid for income taxes and interest was approximately $22 million and $24 million, respectively, in the six months ended April 30, 2015 . In the six months ended April 30, 2015, we paid the remaining outstanding related party balances of approximately $28 million to Agilent. For the six months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, other assets and liabilities used cash of $59 million and $26 million, respectively. The usage of cash in other assets and liabilities was largely the result of changes in prepaid assets, interest on senior notes, mark-to-market of derivatives, and deferred revenue accruals. In the six months ended April 30, 2015 , accounts receivable used cash of $5 million compared to cash provided of $5 million for the same period in 2014. Revenue increased by approximately 2 percent in the six months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. Days sales outstanding increased to 44 days as of April 30, 2015 from 41 days a year ago. Accounts payable provided cash of $1 million for the six months ended April 30, 2015 compared to cash provided of $26 million in the same period in 2014. Cash used by inventory was $17 million for the six months ended April 30, 2015 compared to cash used of $31 million for the same period in 2014. Inventory days on-hand decreased to 137 days as of April 30, 2015 compared to 142 days as of the end of the same period last year. 30 Table of Contents We did not contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans or U.S. post-retirement benefit plan and contributed $25 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the six months ended April 30, 2015 . We do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2015 and expect to contribute approximately $20 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2015 . Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used by investing activities was $30 million for the six months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $34 million for the same period last year. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $31 million for the six months ended April 30, 2015 compared to $34 million in the same period last year. We expect that total capital expenditures for the current year will be approximately $100 million. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used by financing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2015 was $38 million compared to cash used of $241 million for the same period of 2014. Financing activities in the six months ended April 30, 2015 reflects $8 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock option plans and $49 million of cash returned to Agilent in accordance with the separation and distribution agreement. Cash used in financing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2014 represents cash returned to Agilent. Credit Facility On September 15, 2014, we entered into a five year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on November 1, 2019. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of April 30, 2015 the company had no borrowings outstanding under the facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facility during the six months ended April 30, 2015 . Long-term debt There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the outstanding senior notes in the six months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the senior notes as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014 . Other There were no material changes from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014, to our contractual commitments in the first six months of 2015. We have contractual commitments for non-cancelable operating leases. We have no other material non-cancelable guarantees or commitments. Other long-term liabilities include $8 million and $82 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions as of April 30, 2015 and October 31, 2014, respectively (See Note 5, "Income Taxes"). We are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.