ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, the ability of our products to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence of economic instability, and our and the combined groups estimated or anticipated future results of operations, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Overview and Executive Summary Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a measurement company providing electronic design and test solutions to communications and electronics industries. We provide electronic design and test instrumentation systems and related software, software design tools, and services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment, validation, optimization and secure operation of electronics systems. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity, application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. We invest in product development to address the changing needs of the market and facilitate growth. We are investing in research and development to design measurement solutions that will satisfy the changing needs of our customers. These opportunities are being driven by evolving technology standards and the need for faster data rates and new form factors. On April 18, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Ixia, which became our fourth reportable operating segment, the Ixia Solutions Group (ISG). The group provides testing, visibility and security solutions, strengthening applications across physical and virtual networks for enterprises, service providers and network equipment manufacturers. As a result, Keysight now has four segments, Communications Solutions Group, Electronic Industrial Solutions Group, Ixia Solutions Group and Services Solutions Group. Also, our global team of experts provides startup assistance, consulting, optimization and application support across all of our end markets. Three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2018 were $964 million, an increase of 39 percent when compared to the same period last year and an increase of 37 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Orders associated with acquisitions accounted for 22 percentage points of order growth for the three months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to the same period last year. Net revenue of $837 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 15 percent when compared to the same period last year and increased 14 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, acquisitions added approximately 16 percentage points of revenue growth. The disruption from the northern California wildfires unfavorably impacted the seasonality of our first quarter revenue. While the recovery is progressing faster than our original projections due to the strong response and execution of our teams, full recovery is projected to extend at least into our third fiscal quarter. Across the business groups, strength in revenue from the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group and Services Solutions Group was partially offset by a decline in the Communications Solutions Group, which was most impacted by the wildfire disruption. 25 Table of Contents Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2018 was $94 million compared to $109 million for the corresponding period last year. The decline in net income was driven by one-time gains in the three months ended January 31, 2017 from a Japan pension settlement and land sale, increases in the current period in amortization of acquisition-related balances, acquisition and integration costs, people-related costs and an unfavorable impact from the northern California wildfires, partially offset by favorable impacts from new U.S. tax legislation and higher revenue volume. Impact of Northern California Wildfires During the week of October 8, 2017, wildfires in northern California adversely impacted the Keysight corporate headquarters site in Santa Rosa, CA. Our headquarters was under mandatory evacuation for more than three weeks, and while direct damage to our core facilities was limited, our buildings did experience some smoke and other fire-related impacts. Cleaning and additional restoration efforts are ongoing in both production and non-production areas of the site. To ensure business continuity, the company leased temporary office space to support Santa Rosa employees who could not immediately reoccupy the site. Keysight is insured for the damage caused by the fire, including business interruption insurance, and though we do not expect the fire to have a significant impact on our business results, the disruption will impact the seasonality of revenue in the first half of fiscal 2018. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recognized costs of $7 million, net of $31 million of estimated insurance recovery. Expenses included primarily cleaning, unabsorbed overhead, and other direct costs related to the impact of this event. As of January 31, 2018, we have received insurance proceeds of $10 million. We have increased our insurance receivable from $1.7 million at October 31, 2017 to $23 million at January 31, 2018 for known losses for which insurance reimbursement is probable. The receivable is included in other current assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. In many cases, our insurance coverage exceeds the amount of these covered losses, but no gain contingencies have been recognized as our ability to realize those gains remains uncertain for financial reporting purposes. We currently estimate that insurance recovery will range from $80 million to $110 million, which we believe will cover our expected losses and expenses related to the wildfires. There may be a difference in timing of costs incurred and the related insurance reimbursement. Outlook Looking forward, we believe our investments in R&D combined with our completed acquisitions, which have expanded of our technology portfolio and the size of our addressable market, position Keysight for growth. We remain focused on delivering value through innovative solutions targeted at faster growing markets where customers are investing in next-generation digital and electronic technologies. Internally, we are continuously working to improve operational efficiency within, and across, all functions. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. GAAP ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, warranty, restructuring and accounting for income taxes. For a detailed description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. Management bases estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. 26 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our consolidated statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis of up to a rolling twelve-month period. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations Orders and Net Revenue In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services. Consistent with our strategy, we are seeing an increase in solution sales, which have a longer order-to-revenue conversion cycle; however, the majority of recorded orders will be delivered within six months. Revenue reflects the delivery and acceptance of the products and services as defined on the customer's terms and conditions. Cancellations are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months (in millions) Orders $ 964 $ 695 39% Net revenue: Products $ 684 $ 606 13% Services and other 153 120 27% Total net revenue $ 837 $ 726 15% Orders Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2018 were $964 million, an increase of 39 percent when compared to the same period last year and an increase of 37 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Orders associated with acquisitions accounted for 22 percentage points of order growth for the three months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to the same period last year. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, orders grew across all geographies. Net Revenue The following table provides the percent change in net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 by geographic region including and excluding the impact of currency changes as compared to the same period last year. Year over Year % Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2018 Geographic Region actual currency adjusted Americas 31 % 31 % Europe 18 % 12 % Japan (10 )% (10 )% Asia Pacific ex-Japan 6 % 4 % Total net revenue 15 % 14 % Net revenue of $837 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 15 percent when compared to the same periods last year and increased 14 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Revenue associated with acquisitions 27 Table of Contents accounted for 16 percentage points of revenue growth for the three months ended January 31, 2018 when compared to the same period last year. Revenue from the Communications Solutions Group represented approximately 50 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and decreased 3 percent year-over-year. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, the Communications Solutions Group's contribution to the total revenue growth was a decline of 2 percentage points. The revenue decline was primarily driven by the impact of the northern California wildfires. While the recovery is progressing faster than our original projections due to the strong response and execution of our teams, full recovery is projected to extend at least into our third fiscal quarter. Revenue decline in Japan and Europe was partially offset by growth in the Americas, while Asia Pacific excluding Japan was flat. Revenue from the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group represented approximately 24 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and grew 6 percent year-over-year. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group's contribution to the total revenue growth was an increase of 1 percentage point, with growth in Europe and the Americas, partially offset by declines in Asia Pacific including Japan. Revenue from the Ixia Solutions Group represented approximately 13 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018. The Ixia Solutions Group contribution to the total revenue growth was 15 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2018. Revenue from the Services Solutions Group represented approximately 13 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and grew 6 percent year-over-year. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, the Services Solutions Group's contribution to the total revenue growth was an increase of 1 percentage point, with growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific excluding Japan, partially offset by declines in Japan and Europe. Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months Total gross margin 51.1 % 55.7 % (5) ppts Operating margin (0.6 )% 22.4 % (23) ppts in millions Research and development $ 146 $ 108 35% Selling, general and administrative $ 290 $ 213 36% Other operating expense (income), net $ (3 ) $ (79 ) (96)% Gross margin decreased 5 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period last year. The decline in gross margin was driven by the unfavorable impact from amortization of acquisition-related balances, the northern California wildfire-related expenses, and an increase in warranty expenses and inventory charges, partially offset by favorable revenue mix. Research and development expense increased 35 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period last year, driven by the addition of Ixia to the cost structure along with higher people-related costs. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expense was 17 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2018, as compared to 15 percent for the same period last year. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities in order to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 36 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by the addition of Ixia to our cost structure, increases in amortization of acquisition-related balances, people-related costs, acquisition and integration costs, the unfavorable impact of foreign currency movements and the unfavorable impact from the northern California wildfire-related expenses, partially offset by a decline in separation and related costs. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 was income of $3 million and $79 million, respectively. The other operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was largely driven by $68 million from a Japan pension settlement gain and $8 million of gain on sale of land. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2018 decreased 23 percentage points when compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by one-time gains in the three months ended January 31, 2017 from a Japan pension settlement 28 Table of Contents and sale of land and increases in current period in amortization of acquisition-related balances, acquisition and integration costs, and people-related costs, partially offset by gains related to revenue volume. As of January 31, 2018, our headcount was approximately 12,700 as compared to approximately 10,400 at January 31, 2017. The increase was primarily driven by acquisitions. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 was $22 million as compared to $12 million for the comparable period last year. The increase in interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily due to interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs on $700 million of senior notes issued in April 2017 and interest on borrowings under a senior unsecured term loan. Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was a benefit of 515.8 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and an expense of 28.3 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2017. The income tax benefit was $117 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018, and income tax expense was $43 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017. The increase in the total income tax benefit and discrete benefit for the three months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily due to changes in U.S. tax law. The income tax benefit for the three months ended January 31, 2018 included a net discrete benefit of $115 million, primarily due to $117 million of benefit resulting from changes in U.S. tax law. The income tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2017 included a net discrete expense of $23 million, primarily related to $22 million of tax resulting from the transfer of a portion of the Japanese Employees Pension Fund (see Note 12). Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, and several jurisdictions have granted us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The Singapore tax incentive is due for renewal in fiscal 2024. For the majority of our entities, the open tax years for the IRS, state and most foreign audit authorities are from August 1, 2014 through the current tax year. For certain acquired U.S. entities, the tax years generally remain open back to year 2009. For foreign entities, the tax years remain open, at most, back to the year 2007. Given the number of years and numerous matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, we are unable to estimate the range of possible changes to the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits. The company is being audited in Malaysia for the 2008 tax year. Although this tax year pre-dates our spin-off from Agilent, pursuant to the agreement between Agilent and Keysight pertaining to tax matters, as finalized at the time of separation, for certain entities including Malaysia, any historical tax liability is the responsibility of Keysight. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, Keysight paid income taxes and penalties of $68 million on gains related to intellectual property rights, although we are currently in the process of appealing to the Special Commissioners of Income Tax (SCIT) in Malaysia. The company believes there are numerous defenses to the current assessment; the statute of limitations for the 2008 tax year in Malaysia was closed and the income in question is exempt from tax in Malaysia. The company is disputing this assessment and pursuing all avenues to resolve this issue favorably for the company. At January 31, 2018, our estimated annual effective tax rate is an expense of 7.5 percent excluding discrete items. We determine our interim tax provision using an estimated annual effective tax rate methodology except in jurisdictions where we anticipate a full year loss or we have a year-to-date ordinary loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized. In these jurisdictions, tax expense is computed separately. Our estimated annual effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower rates, reserves for uncertain tax positions, the U.S. federal research and development tax credit and the impact of permanent differences. Segment Overview Keysight has four reportable operating segments: Communications Solutions Group, Electronic Industrial Solutions Group, Ixia Solutions Group and Services Solutions Group. The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications end market, which includes internet infrastructure, and the aerospace, defense and government end market. The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets. Ixia Solutions Group (ISG). The group provides testing, visibility and security solutions, strengthening applications across physical and virtual networks for enterprises, service providers and network equipment manufacturers. The Services Solutions Group provides repair, calibration and consulting services, and remarkets used Keysight 29 Table of Contents equipment. In addition, our global team of experts provides startup assistance, consulting, optimization and application support across all of our end markets. The profitability of each segment is measured after excluding, among other things, charges related to the amortization of acquisition-related balances, the impact of restructuring and related costs, asset impairments, acquisition and integration costs, share-based compensation, separation and related costs, interest income and interest expense. Communications Solutions Group The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications end market and the aerospace, defense and government end market. The group provides electronic design and test software, instruments, and systems used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 420 $ 434 (3)% The Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 decreased 3 percent when compared to the same period last year primarily driven by the impact of the northern California wildfires, leading to a decline in revenue from the aerospace, defense and government and commercial communication markets. While the recovery is progressing faster than our original projections due to the strong response and execution of our teams, full recovery is projected to extend at least into our third fiscal quarter. Revenue from the commercial communications market represented approximately 58 percent of the total Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018, and decreased 4 percent year-over-year. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, revenue declines in Europe and Japan were partially offset by growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific excluding Japan when compared to the same period last year. The commercial communications market revenue decline was primarily driven by impact of the northern California wildfires. Decline in the data center market was partially offset by growth in 5G technologies, while 4G spending has stabilized. Revenue from the aerospace, defense and government market represented approximately 42 percent of the total Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and decreased 3 percent year-over-year. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, revenue decline in Asia Pacific including Japan was partially offset by growth in Europe and the Americas. The aerospace, defense and government market revenue decline was primarily driven by impact of the northern California wildfires and weakness in China and the rest of Asia. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Communications Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2018 versus the three months ended January 31, 2017. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months Total gross margin 60.9 % 60.5 % - Operating margin 14.0 % 16.7 % (3) ppts in millions Research and development $ 80 $ 76 6% Selling, general and administrative $ 118 $ 117 1% Other operating expense (income), net $ (2 ) $ (2 ) (6)% Income from operations $ 59 $ 72 (19)% 30 Table of Contents Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased slightly when compared to the same period last year. The gross margin growth for the three months ended January 31, 2018 was primarily driven by higher revenue from software, partially offset by higher warranty and inventory charges. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 6 percent compared to the same period last year, driven by continued investments in R&D programs. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 1 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by an increase in infrastructure-related costs. Other operating expense (income) for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 was income of $2 million. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2018 decreased $13 million on a corresponding revenue decline of $14 million when compared to the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2018 declined 3 percentage points when compared to the same period last year, driven by lower revenue and increased investments in R&D and infrastructure related costs. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets, focusing on high-growth applications in the automotive and energy industry and measurement solutions for semiconductor design and manufacturing, consumer electronics, education and general electronics manufacturing. The group provides electronic design and test software, instruments, and systems used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 203 $ 192 6% The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 6 percent when compared to the same period last year and grew 3 percent excluding the impact of acquisitions. Revenue growth was driven by strong growth in automotive and energy and semiconductor measurement markets, partially offset by decline in the general electronics measurement market. Strong revenue growth in Europe and the Americas was partially offset by a decline in Japan and Asia Pacific excluding Japan. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2018 versus the three months ended January 31, 2017. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months Total gross margin 59.0 % 59.9 % (1) ppt Operating margin 18.5 % 21.7 % (3) ppts in millions Research and development $ 33 $ 28 19% Selling, general and administrative $ 50 $ 46 8% Other operating expense (income), net $ (1 ) $ (1 ) (8)% Income from operations $ 37 $ 42 (10)% 31 Table of Contents Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2018 declined 1 percentage point when compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by unfavorable revenue mix and an increase in warranty expense. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 19 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by continued investments in leading-edge technologies and key growth opportunities in our end markets and acquisition-related costs. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 8 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily due to an increase in people-related costs, investments in sales resources and acquisition-related costs. Other operating expense (income) for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 was income of $1 million. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2018 decreased $5 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $11 million when compared to the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2018 decreased 3 percentage points when compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by unfavorable mix and increased investments in R&D, sales resources and acquisition-related costs. Ixia Solutions Group The Ixia Solutions Group helps customers validate the performance and security resilience of their networks and associated applications. The test,visibility and security solutions help organizations and their customers strengthen their physical and virtual networks. Enterprises, service providers, network equipment manufacturers, and governments worldwide rely on the group's solutions to validate new products before shipping and secure ongoing operation of their networks with better visibility and security. The groups solutions consist of our high-performance hardware platforms, software applications, and services, including warranty and maintenance offerings. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months Total gross margin 75.6 % % n/a Operating margin 14.5 % % n/a in millions Net revenue $ 127 $ n/a Research and development $ 25 $ n/a Selling, general and administrative $ 52 $ n/a Other operating expense (income), net $ $ n/a Income from operations $ 18 $ n/a Revenue from the Ixia Solutions Group contributed 18 percentage points to the total Keysight revenue growth for the three months ended January 31, 2018. Revenue from the Ixia Solutions Group represented 15 percent of the total Keysight revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018. Services Solutions Group The Services Solutions Group provides repair, calibration and consulting services, and remarkets used Keysight equipment. In addition to providing repair and calibration support for Keysight equipment, we also calibrate non-Keysight equipment. The group serves the same markets as Keysights Communications Solutions and Electronic Industrial Solutions Groups, providing industry-specific services to deliver complete Keysight solutions and help customers reduce their total cost of ownership for their design and test equipment. This segment was formerly reported as the companys Customer Support and Services segment. 32 Table of Contents Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 106 $ 100 6% The Services Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 6 percent when compared to the same period last year and grew 4 percent excluding the impact of acquisitions. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, the revenue increase was driven by strong growth in sales of used equipment, complimented by steady growth in calibration services. Revenue growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific excluding Japan was partially offset by declines in Europe and Japan. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Services Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2018 versus the three months ended January 31, 2017. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2018 2017 Months Total gross margin 40.3 % 39.4 % 1 ppt Operating margin 15.6 % 14.4 % 1 ppt in millions Research and development $ 1 $ 50% Selling, general and administrative $ 26 $ 25 4% Other operating expense (income), net $ (1 ) $ 24% Income from operations $ 17 $ 14 15% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 1 percentage point when compared to the same period last year primarily driven by higher volume and more favorable mix of remarketed products. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 50 percent compared to the same period last year. The increase is primarily driven by investments in a new software application to enable enhanced service offerings. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 4 percent when compared to the same period last year, primarily due to investments in sales resources and an increase in acquisition-related people costs. Other operating expense (income) for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 was income of $1 million and zero, respectively. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased by $3 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $6 million when compared to the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2018 increased 1 percentage point as compared to the same period last year, driven by higher gross margin partially offset by increased investments in R&D and sales resources from the acquisitions. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of January 31, 2018 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $980 million as compared to $818 million as of October 31, 2017. As of January31, 2018, approximately $923 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Under U.S. tax legislation that was enacted on December 22, 2017, certain earnings currently held outside 33 Table of Contents of the U.S. are deemed to be repatriated to the U.S., with foreign cash balances generally subject to an effective U.S. tax rate of 15.5 percent and certain cumulative foreign earnings in excess of foreign cash balances subject to an effective U.S. tax rate of 8 percent. Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions, investments in institutional money market funds, and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions in which we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs, in addition to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit for a few locations which are unable to access internal funding. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding, variable pay and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $171 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to $115 million for the same period in 2017. Net income for the first three months of fiscal 2018 decreased $15 million. Changes to non-cash income and expenses included a $275 million decrease in deferred tax expense, primarily related to a one-time reduction in net deferred tax liabilities and corresponding income tax benefit of approximately $304 million due to the re-measurement of U.S. income taxes recorded on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were not considered permanently reinvested. It also included a $68 million decline in pension curtailment and settlement gain, a $46 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, an $8 million decline in gain from sale of land, a $1 million increase in share-based compensation expense, a $3 million increase in excess and obsolete inventory-related charges and a $2 million increase in other miscellaneous non-cash expenses as compared to the same period last year. Additionally for the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recognized costs of $7 million, net of $31 million of estimated insurance recovery towards northern California wildfire-related expenses. The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable provided net operating cash of $93 million during the first three months of fiscal 2018 compared to cash provided of $18 million in the comparable period last year. The inventory change includes $19 million of amortization related to fair value adjustments due to acquisitions for the three months ended January 31, 2018. Our operational cash flows were strengthened by significant timing-related reductions in working capital linked to the fire recovery, which we expect to balance out during the remainder of the first half of the year. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable depends upon the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. The aggregate of employee compensation and benefits, income tax payable, deferred revenue and other assets and liabilities provided net operating cash of $126 million during the first three months of fiscal 2018 compared to cash used of $26 million in the comparable period last year. The difference is primarily due to an increase in income tax payable due to the impact of new U.S. tax legislation and an increase in deferred revenue balances as a result of acquisition activity, partially offset by higher variable compensation payments and other differences due to timing of accruals and collections versus payments between the periods. As of January 31, 2018, we have received insurance proceeds of $10 million towards northern California wildfire-related expenses. Additionally, we have increased our insurance receivable from $1.7 million at October 31, 2017 to $23 million at January 31, 2018 for known losses for which insurance reimbursement has been received in the month of February. Also during the quarter ending January 31, 2018, we have received insurance proceeds of $26 million towards Singapore fire-related expenses. We contributed $9 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the first three months of fiscal 2018 compared to $7 million in the same period last year. We expect to contribute approximately $29 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2018. For the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, we did not contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans or U.S. post-retirement benefit plan, and we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2018. 34 Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $27 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to $8 million for the same period last year. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $24 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 compared to $16 million in the same period last year. The increase in capital expenditures was primarily due to acquisitions and $3 million related to northern California wildfires. We received $8 million of proceeds from the sale of land in the three months ended January 31, 2017. We expect that total capital expenditures for the current year will be approximately $130 million, including $20 million to $30 million of capital related to recovery from the northern California wildfires, which is expected to be covered by insurance. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Cash flows related to financing activities primarily consist of cash flows associated with the proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, net cash provided by financing activities was $9 million compared to cash provided of $8 million for the same period in 2017. During the three months ended January 31, 2018, we issued common stock under employee stock plans of $24 million compared to $19 million for the same period last year. Additionally, we paid taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards of $15 million during first quarter of 2018 as compared to $11 million for the same period last year. Short-Term Debt Revolving Credit Facility On February 15, 2017 , we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Facility) that provides for a $450 million , five -year unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 15, 2022 . In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility permits us to increase the total commitments under this credit facility by up to $150 million in the aggregate on one or more occasions upon request. We may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. During the three months ended January 31, 2018, we borrowed and repaid $40 million of under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of January 31, 2018, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility during the three months ended January 31, 2018. Long-Term Debt There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the outstanding senior notes in the three months ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the senior notes as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. Senior Unsecured Term Loan On February 15, 2017 , we entered into a term credit agreement that provides for a three -year $400 million senior unsecured term loan that bears interest at an annual rate of LIBOR + 1.50% . The term loan was drawn upon the closing of the Ixia acquisition. As of January 31, 2018, we had borrowings outstanding under the term loan of $260 million, which was repaid in February 2018. Other There were no material changes from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, to our contractual commitments (including non-cancellable operating leases) in the first three months of 2018. There were no material changes in our liabilities toward uncertain tax positions from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. We are unable to accurately predict when these will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.