Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Unaudited) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence of political or economic instability, impacts of geopolitical tension and conflict in regions outside of the U.S., the 21 Table of Contents impacts of increased trade tension and tightening of export control regulations, the impact of compliance with the August 3, 2021 Consent Agreement with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Department of State, the impact of new and ongoing litigation, inflationary pressures, impacts of supply chain constraints, impacts related to endemic and pandemic conditions, impacts related to net zero emissions commitments, the impact of volatile weather caused by environmental conditions such as climate change, increases in attrition and our ability to retain key personnel, and our estimated or anticipated future results of operations, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Overview and Executive Summary Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a technology company that helps enterprises, service providers and governments accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world by providing electronic design and test solutions that are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacture, installation, optimization and secure operation of electronics systems in the communications, networking and electronics industries. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product development lifecycle, including start-up assistance, asset management, up-time services, application services and instrument calibration and repair. We invest in research and development ("R&D") to align our business with available markets and position the company for growth. Our R&D efforts focus on improvements to existing software and hardware products and development to support new software and hardware product introductions and complete customer solutions aligned to the industries we serve. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuous flow of innovative, high-quality software, customer solutions, products and services. We remain committed to investment in R&D and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities to capture future growth. Macro-economic headwinds and challenging geopolitical environment Our global operations continue to be affected by many headwinds, including inflationary pressures, financial market volatility, currency movements, geopolitical tensions, trade restrictions and continuing supply chain constraints. These headwinds are also negatively impacting our customers' revenue, operating margin and cost of capital. Demand is moderating as our customers are becoming more cautious in spending to manage financial results and adapt to post-pandemic dynamics. Our exposure to multiple end markets, our diversified solutions portfolio and the strength of the Keysight Leadership Model position us well to weather these macro and industry dynamics and deliver consistent value to our customers. For discussion of risks related to potential impacts of macro-economic headwinds and geopolitical challenges on our operations, business results and financial condition, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Three months ended January 31, 2023 and 2022 Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2023 were $1,300 million, a decrease of 13 percent compared to the same period last year. For the three months ended January 31, 2023, orders declined across all regions. Foreign currency movements for the three months ended January 31, 2023 had an unfavorable impact of 3 percentage points on year-over-year order growth. Revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was $1,381 million, an increase of 10 percent compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements for the three months ended January 31, 2023 had an unfavorable impact of 4 percentage points on the year-over-year revenue growth. For the three months ended January 31, 2023, revenue for both the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group and the Communications Solutions Group increased year-over-year, driven by strength in all the regions and across all end markets. Revenue from the Communications Solutions Group and the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group represented 68 percent and 32 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2023. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was $260 million, compared to $229 million, for the same period last year. The increase in net income for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was primarily driven by higher revenue volume and higher interest income, partially offset by higher income tax expense, material costs, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. 22 Table of Contents Outlook Our first-to-market solutions strategy enables customers to develop new technologies and accelerate innovation and provides a platform for long-term growth. Our customers are expected to continue to make R&D investments in certain next-generation technologies, such as 5G/6G, new mobility technologies, industrial internet of things ("IoT") and defense modernization. We continue to closely monitor the current macro environment related to trade, tariffs, monetary and fiscal policies, geopolitical tensions in regions outside of the U.S., and ongoing supply chain challenges. We remain confident in our long-term secular market growth trends and the strength of our operating model. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There were no material changes during the three months ended January 31, 2023 to the critical accounting estimates described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2022. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our condensed consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge short-term currency movements based on a rolling period of up to twelve months. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations - Three months ended January 31, 2023 and 2022 A summary of our results is as follows: Three Months Ended Year over Year January 31, Change 2023 2022 Three Months in millions, except margin data Revenue $ 1,381 $ 1,250 10% Gross margin 63.9 % 64.3 % Research and development $ 227 $ 210 8% Percentage of revenue 16 % 17 % Selling, general and administrative $ 338 $ 326 3% Percentage of revenue 24 % 26 % (2) ppts Other operating expense (income), net $ (4) $ (3) 20% Income from operations $ 322 $ 271 19% Operating margin 23.3 % 21.7 % 2 ppts Interest income $ 19 $ 1 3148% Interest expense $ (19) $ (20) (2)% Other income (expense), net $ 9 $ 12 (20)% Income before taxes $ 331 $ 264 26% Provision for income taxes $ 71 $ 35 105% Net income $ 260 $ 229 14% 23 Table of Contents Revenue Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Returns are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. The following table provides the percent change in revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2023 by geographic region and the impact of foreign currency movements as compared to the same period last year. Year over Year Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2023 Geographic Region Actual Currency Impact Favorable (Unfavorable) Americas 16% Europe 14% (7) ppts Asia Pacific 4% (6) ppts Total revenue 10% (4) ppts Gross Margin, Operating Margin and Income Before Taxes Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was flat as compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher material costs, unfavorable mix and higher variable people-related costs offset by price increases. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 8 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by continued investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies and higher variable people-related cost s. As a percentage of revenue, R&D expense was 16 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2023 as compared to 17 percent for the same period last year. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 3 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher infrastructure-related, travel-related and variable people-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was income of $4 million compared to income of $3 million for the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 2 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower operating expenses as a percentage of sales. Interest income for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was $19 million as compared to $1 million for the comparable period last year and primarily relates to interest earned on our cash balances. The increase in interest income for the three months ended January 31, 2023 is primarily driven by an increase in interest rates. Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was $19 million, as compared to $20 million, for the comparable period last year and primarily relates to interest on our senior notes. Other income (expense), net for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was income of $9 million, compared to income of $12 million for the same period last year and primarily includes income related to our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans and the change in fair value of our equity and other investments. The decrease in net other income for the three months ended January 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year was primarily driven by higher amortization of net actuarial losses and currency losses, partially offset by a net gain on our equity investments. As of January 31, 2023, our headcount was approximately 15,000 compared to approximately 14,300 at January 31, 2022. Income Taxes The following table provides details of income taxes: Three Months Ended January 31, 2023 2022 in millions, except percentages Income before taxes $ 331 $ 264 Provision for income taxes $ 71 $ 35 Effective tax rate 21.5 % 13.1 % 24 Table of Contents The effective tax rate increased 8.4 percentage points from the three months ended January 31, 2022 to the three months ended January 31, 2023 due to an increase in income before taxes, the impacts of U.S. tax research and experimental expenditures capitalization, and a decrease in discrete tax benefits. A provision enacted in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "TCJA") became effective for Keysight on November 1, 2022 requiring U.S. tax research and experimental expenditures to be capitalized and amortized over five years for research activities conducted in the U.S. and over fifteen years for research activities conducted outside the U.S. The capitalization of U.S. tax research and experimental expenditures increases the provision for global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) and is partially offset by an increase in the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income tax deduction. The income tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 and 2022 included a net discrete benefit of $1 million and $8 million, respectively. The decrease in discrete tax benefit for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was primarily due to a decrease in tax deductions related to stock compensation. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore and Malaysia, that will expire or require renewal at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. The Singapore tax incentive is due for renewal in 2024, and the Malaysia incentive is due for renewal in 2025. We are continuing to evaluate renewal options and the impact of potential outcomes on our effective tax rate. For the three months ended January 31, 2023 and 2022 the impact of the tax incentives decreased the income tax provision by $25 million and $19 million, respectively. The increase in tax benefit for the three months ended January 31, 2023 is primarily due to a change in the jurisdictional mix of non-U.S. earnings, which increased the earnings taxed at incentive tax rates in 2023. The open tax years for the U.S. federal income tax return and most state income tax returns are from November 1, 2018 through the current tax year. For the majority of our non-U.S. entities, the open tax years are from November 1, 2017 through the current tax year. For certain non-U.S. entities, the tax years remain open, at most, back to the year 2008. The company is being audited in Malaysia for fiscal year 2008. This tax year pre-dates our separation from Agilent. However, pursuant to the agreement between Agilent and Keysight pertaining to tax matters, as finalized at the time of separation, for certain entities, including Malaysia, any historical tax liability is the responsibility of Keysight. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, Keysight paid income taxes and penalties of $68 million on gains related to intellectual property rights. The company believes there are numerous defenses to the current assessment; the statute of limitations for the fiscal year 2008 in Malaysia was closed, and the income in question is exempt from tax in Malaysia. The company is disputing this assessment and pursuing all avenues to resolve this issue favorably for the company. Our appeals to both the Special Commissioners of Income Tax and the High Court in Malaysia have been unsuccessful. We have filed a Notice of Appeal with the Court of Appeal, and a hearing is currently scheduled for April 2023. At this time, management does not believe that the outcome of any future or currently ongoing examination will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have an adequate provision for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Given the numerous tax years and matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, the ultimate resolution of current and future tax examinations could be inconsistent with managements current expectations. If that were to occur, it could have an impact on our effective tax rate in the period in which such examinations are resolved. We do not recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact the GILTI tax expense in future years. We recognize the tax expense related to GILTI in each year in which the tax is incurred. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various other countries globally. Changes in tax law, tax rates, or in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates may affect deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded and our future effective tax rate. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 that included changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a fifteen percent minimum tax based on "adjusted financial statement income," which is effective for Keysight beginning November 1, 2023. In addition, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) announced that it reached agreement among 136 countries to implement a minimum fifteen percent tax rate on certain multinational enterprises, commonly referred to as the Pillar Two proposals. Many countries continue to consider changes in their tax laws and regulations based on the Pillar Two proposals. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of these proposed and enacted legislative changes as new guidance becomes available. Some of these legislative changes could result in double taxation of our non-U.S. earnings, a reduction in the tax benefit received from our tax incentives, or other impacts to our effective tax rate and tax liabilities. 25 Table of Contents Segment Overview We have two reportable operating segments, the Communications Solutions Group and the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group. The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related balances, acquisition and integration costs, restructuring costs, interest income, interest expense and other items. Communications Solutions Group The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The groups solutions consist of electronic design and test software, electronic measurement instruments, systems and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of electronic equipment and networks. Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year January 31, Change 2023 2022 Three Months in millions Total revenue $ 939 $ 878 7% The Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 7 percent when compared to the same period last year. Revenue grew across all regions and in both the commercial communications and the aerospace, defense and government end markets. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 4 percentage points on year-over-year revenue growth. Investment continues to support new communications technologies like 5G, Open Radio Access Networks ("O-RAN"), data center networking including 800G, terabit communications solutions, spectrum operations, cybersecurity, space and satellite solutions and major defense and government programs worldwide. The commercial communications end market revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 8 percent year-over-year and represented 67 percent of total Communications Solutions Group revenue. Revenue grew across all regions. Wireless 5G development and manufacturing of devices, O-RAN, components and operators, and high-speed data solutions to support data centers and the cloud drove the revenue growth. The aerospace, defense and government end market revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 5 percent year-over-year and represented 33 percent of total Communications Solutions Group revenue. The growth in the Americas and Europe was partially offset by a decline in Asia Pacific. We continue to see investments in spectrum operations, cybersecurity, and satellites and space, as well as new commercial technologies like 5G and early 6G research applications. Gross Margin and Operating Margin Three Months Ended Year over Year January 31, Change 2023 2022 Three Months in millions, except margin data Gross margin 67.5 % 67.3 % Research and development $ 156 $ 149 5% Selling, general and administrative $ 210 $ 207 1% Other operating expense (income), net $ (3) $ (2) 17% Income from operations $ 269 $ 237 14% Operating margin 28.7 % 26.9 % 2 ppts Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was flat as compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by price increases, offset by higher material costs, unfavorable mix and higher variable people-related costs. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 5 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by continued investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies and higher variable people-related costs. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 1 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher infrastructure-related, travel-related and variable people-related costs. 26 Table of Contents Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was income of $3 million compared to income of $2 million for the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 2 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower operating expenses as a percentage of sales. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions and related services across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets, focusing on high-value applications in the automotive and energy industries and measurement solutions for consumer electronics, education, general electronics design and manufacturing, and semiconductor design and manufacturing. The group provides electronic measurement instruments, design and test software and systems and related services used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment, and automated software test solutions that include artificial intelligence and machine learning to automatically identify, build and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year January 31, Change 2023 2022 Three Months in millions Total revenue $ 442 $ 372 19% The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 19 percent, compared to the same period last year. For the three months ended January 31, 2023, revenue grew across all regions. Foreign currency movements for the three months ended January 31, 2023 had an unfavorable impact of 5 percentage points on year-over-year revenue growth. The strong revenue growth was driven by continued investments in next-generation mobility and semiconductor technologies, and emerging verticals like digital health and industrial IoT. Gross Margin and Operating Margin Three Months Ended Year over Year January 31, Change 2023 2022 Three Months in millions, except margin data Gross margin 60.5 % 62.6 % (2) ppts Research and development $ 54 $ 49 10% Selling, general and administrative $ 74 $ 70 5% Other operating expense (income), net $ (1) $ (1) Income from operations $ 140 $ 114 23% Operating margin 31.8 % 30.7 % 1 ppt Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2023 decreased 2 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher material costs, partially offset by price increases. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 10 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by continued investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies and higher variable people-related cost s. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 5 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher infrastructure-related, travel-related and variable people-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was income of $1 million compared to income of $1 million for the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased 1 percentage point compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower operating expenses as a percentage of sales, partially offset by gross margin declines. 27 Table of Contents Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Under certain circumstances, U.S. and local government regulations may limit our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs. Overview of Cash Flows Our key cash flow activities were as follows: Three Months Ended January 31, 2023 2022 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 366 $ 224 Net cash used in investing activities $ (60) $ (49) Net cash used in financing activities $ (139) $ (247) Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs, the timing of payments for income taxes, variable pay, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities increased $142 million during the three months ended January 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2023 increased $31 million compared to the same period last year. Non-cash adjustments to net income were lower by $21 million primarily due to a $10 million increase in deferred tax benefit, a $4 million decrease in amortization and depreciation, and a $11 million decrease in other non-cash adjustments, partially offset by a $4 million increase in share-based compensation. The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable used net cash of $57 million during the first three months of fiscal 2023 compared to net cash used of $11 million in the same period last year, primarily due to timing of invoices, and an increase in inventory driven by incremental stock build-up to secure supply to support order fulfillment, partially offset by higher collections, net of payments. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable depends upon the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. Other movements in assets and liabilities provided net cash of $57 million during the first three months of fiscal 2023 compared to net cash used of $121 million in the same period last year, primarily due to a higher income tax expense, an increase in deferred revenue, lower variable compensation and other payroll-related payments, net of accruals and lower prepaid inventory deposits. Investing Activities Our investing activities primarily include investments in property, plant and equipment and acquisitions of businesses to support our growth. Net cash used in investing activities increased $11 million during the three months ended January 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $60 million and $42 million for the three months ended January 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We used $7 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisition activity for the three months ended January 31, 2022. Financing Activities Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards and treasury stock repurchases. Net cash used in financing activities decreased $108 million during the three months ended January 31, 2023 compared to the same period last year, primarily due to lower treasury stock repurchases and lower payment of taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. 28 Table of Contents Treasury Stock Repurchases On November 18, 2021, our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1,200 million of the companys common stock. The stock repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at the companys discretion and does not have an expiration date. See "Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" under Part II Item 2 for additional information. Debt January 31, 2023 October 31, 2022 (in millions) Total debt (par value) $ 1,800 $ 1,800 Revolving credit facility $ 750 $ 750 On July 30, 2021, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement that amended and restated the prior credit agreement dated February 15, 2017 in its entirety which provides for a $750 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) that will expire on July 30, 2026 and bears interest at an annual rate of LIBOR + 1 percent along with a facility fee of 0.125 percent per annum. In addition, the credit agreement permits the company, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions to request to increase the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility by up to $250 million in the aggregate. We may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility and senior notes during the three months ended January 31, 2023. See note 9, "Debt" for additional information. On February 17, 2023, we entered into the first amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement to change the annual interest rate from LIBOR +1 percent to SOFR + 1.1 percent. Cash and cash requirements Cash January 31, 2023 October 31, 2022 (in millions) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 2,244 $ 2,057 U.S. $ 823 $ 371 Non U.S. $ 1,421 $ 1,686 Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of investments in institutional money market funds, short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and money market fund asset managers with whom we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs. In addition, a few locations that are unable to access internal funding have access to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. Cash requirements We have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. We generally intend to use available cash and funds generated from our operations to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, we may also borrow under our revolving credit facility. There were no other material changes to the cash requirements from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2022. There were no material changes in our liabilities toward uncertain tax positions from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2022. We believe that we have an adequate provision for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Given the numerous tax years and matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, the ultimate resolution of current and future tax examinations could be inconsistent with managements current expectations. For the remainder of fiscal 2023, we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plan and U.S. post-retirement benefit plan, and we expect to contribute $7 million million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans. The amounts we contribute depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plans funded status, the anticipated tax 29 Table of Contents deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. See note 10, "Retirement plans and post-retirement benefit plans." Additionally, we expect capital spending to be approximately $250 million in 2023, with greater investments in capacity expansion and technology investments. As of January 31, 2023, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and our ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future both globally and domestically.