ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed combined and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, the ability of our products to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, and the existence of economic instability, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal periods. Keysight Technologies, Inc. (we, Keysight or the company), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, provides electronic measurement solutions to communications and electronics industries. On November 1, 2014, Keysight became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution by Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent") of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of Keysight to Agilent's shareholders (the "Separation"). Each Agilent shareholder of record as of the close of business on October 22, 2014 received one share of Keysight common stock for every two shares of Agilent common stock held on the record date, resulting in the distribution of approximately 167 million shares of Keysight common stock. Keysight's Registration Statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on October 6, 2014. Keysight's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "KEYS" on the New York Stock Exchange on November 3, 2014. Prior to the distribution, Agilent transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of the electronic measurement business to Keysight in August 2014 ("the Capitalization"). Combined financial statements prior to the Capitalization were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from Agilents consolidated financial statements and accounting records. For the three months ended January 31, 2014, expenses were allocated to us using estimates that we consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by us. Following the Capitalization, the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our subsidiaries. Agilent continues to provide some services on a transitional basis for a fee, which are partially offset by other income from Keysight services provided to Agilent. These services are received or provided under a transition services agreement. We do not expect the net costs associated with the transition services agreement to be materially different than the historical costs that have been allocated to us related to these same services. We are incurring other incremental costs as an independent, publicly traded company as compared to the costs historically allocated to us by Agilent. These incremental costs are estimated to be approximately $20 million on an annual pre-tax basis. In addition, we recognized non-recurring separation costs of $7 million for the three-month periods ended January 31, 2015 and $8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2014. We expect to recognize additional non-recurring separation costs, which are currently estimated to range from $20 million to $25 million through fiscal 2016. These costs are expected to include, among other things, branding, legal, accounting and other advisory fees and other costs to separate and transition from Agilent. Executive Summary We provide electronic measurement instruments and systems and related software, software design tools, and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. Related 21 Table of Contents services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. We plan to invest in product development to address the changing needs of the market and facilitate growth. We are investing in research and development to design measurement solutions that will satisfy the changing needs of our customers. These opportunities are being driven by the need for faster data rates and new form factors, and by evolving technology standards. In fiscal 2014, we implemented changes in our organizational structure which resulted in the formation of two reportable operating segments, measurement solutions and customer support and services. The measurement solutions segment is primarily the hardware and associated software businesses serving the electronic measurement market. The customer support and services segment provides repair and calibration of the hardware measurement solutions and the resale of used instrument equipment. Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2015 decreased 1 percent compared to the same period last year and increased 1 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Order increases in aerospace and defense were offset by decreases in industrial, computer, and semiconductor test; and the communication test market segments. Net revenue of $701 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 increased 4 percent when compared to the same period last year and increased 7 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2015 was $70 million , compared to $74 million for the corresponding period last year. Looking forward, we believe the long-term growth rate of our markets is 3 to 4 percent. We intend to leverage our unique formula of hardware plus software plus people to create value for our customers and shareholders. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our condensed combined and consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the U.S. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed combined and consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, allocation methods and allocated expenses from Agilent, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, restructuring, warranty, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets and accounting for income taxes. For a detailed description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the condensed combined and consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our condensed combined and consolidated statement of operations. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed combined and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (up to a rolling twelve-month period). Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. 22 Table of Contents Results from Operations Orders and Net Revenue In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Revenue reflects the delivery and acceptance of the products and services as defined on the customer's terms and conditions. Cancellations are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2015 2014 Months (in millions) Orders $ 691 $ 699 (1)% Net revenue: Products $ 596 $ 563 6% Services and other 105 108 (3)% Total net revenue $ 701 $ 671 4% Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2015 decreased 1 percent compared to the same period last year and increased 1 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Orders had modest growth in aerospace and defense and declined in the industrial, computer, and semiconductor test, and communications test market segment. On a geographic basis, orders grew 3 percent in the Americas and 2 percent in Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, and increased 3 percent excluding currency fluctuations. Japan orders declined 7 percent and increased 3 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Europe declined 11 percent, declining 8 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Net revenue of $701 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 increased 4 percent when compared to the same period last year and increased 7 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Revenue from the Americas increased 16 percent with solid growth in aerospace and defense and communications test. Asia, excluding Japan, grew 6 percent and increased 7 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, with growth in aerospace and defense and communications test. Europe declined 5 percent and declined 1 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, with declines in all market segments. Japan declined 15 percent, declining 5 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, with declines in aerospace and defense and industrial, computers and semiconductor, partially offset by growth in communication test. Communications test revenue, representing approximately 33 percent of our total revenue, increased year-over-year with increases in wireless manufacturing, R&D and broadband communications. Wireless manufacturing grew year-over-year with continued strength in 4G base station/infrastructure manufacturing, partially offset by weakness in smartphone/device manufacturing. Wireless R&D grew year-over-year with new technologies driving investments, though customer spending remains cautious. Aerospace and defense business, representing approximately 25 percent of our total revenue increased year-over-year. Strength in the Americas and Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, was partially offset by declines in Japan. Industrial, computer and semiconductor test revenue, representing approximately 42 percent of our total revenue, declined year-over-year. The computer and semiconductor market segment declined in semiconductor manufacturing as compared to a relative strong compare to the three months ended January 31, 2014. The industrial test business declined impacted primarily by the decline in Japan. 23 Table of Contents Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2015 2014 Months ($ in millions) Gross margin 54.6 % 55.4 % (1) ppt Operating margin 11.6 % 13.6 % (2) ppts Research and development $ 96 $ 90 7% Selling, general and administrative $ 206 $ 191 8% Gross margin declined 1 percentage point for the three months ended January 31, 2015 compared to the same period last year on slightly higher revenue. Higher inventory charges and pricing pressure in the wireless manufacturing market were the primary reasons for the lower gross margin, partially offset by lower warranty charges. Research and development expense increased 7 percent in the three months ended January 31, 2015 compared to the same period last year primarily due to increases in infrastructure-related expenses, variable and incentive pay and discretionary expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 8 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2015 , compared to the same period last year primarily due to higher costs related to non-recurring separation transaction costs, increases to variable and incentive pay, discretionary expenses and infrastructure costs, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. Operating margin declined 2 percentage points in the three months ended January 31, 2015 compared to the same period last year primarily driven by the lower gross margin, one-time separation costs and increased spending. At January 31, 2015 , our headcount was approximately 9,500 as compared to approximately 9,300 at January 31, 2014 . Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2015 and 2014 was $12 million and zero, respectively, and relates to interest on our senior notes. Income Taxes Our combined and consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2014 and prior reflect the calculation of certain deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities based on a separate return methodology. Subsequent to the Separation, Keysight will file tax returns on its own behalf and certain current and non-current deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been adjusted to reflect Keysight's stand-alone income tax positions. The current deferred tax assets and non-current deferred tax assets have decreased by approximately $3 million and $33 million, respectively, while the non-current deferred tax liabilities have increased by $2 million. The decrease in net non-current deferred tax assets of $33 million was primarily due to the decrease in tax attributes of $83 million offset by a decrease in the deferred tax liability related to foreign unremitted earnings of approximately $53 million. Our best estimate of the remaining deferred tax liability for foreign unremitted earnings is $0. This decrease is due to the current existing circumstances under the ongoing discussion with Agilent regarding the allocation of certain deferred tax liability balances related to foreign unremitted earnings in accordance with the separation agreements. Under the terms of the tax matters agreement, current taxes payable for fiscal 2014 will be paid by the legal entity that files the tax return for such tax year. As a result of the Separation, income and other taxes payable were reduced by $26 million to reflect the amounts we expect to pay with our 2014 returns. The combined and consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2014 and prior include an allocation of liabilities for uncertain tax positions. As a result of the Separation, other long-term liabilities has been reduced by $74 million, which reflects the difference between the reserves that were allocated to us prior to the Separation using the separate return methodology and the actual reserves we retained. 24 Table of Contents The companys effective tax rate was 10.1 percent and 19.5 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Income tax expense was $8 million and $18 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The income tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2015 included a net discrete tax benefit of $10 million . The income tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2014 included a net discrete expense of $9 million primarily due to the recognition of tax expense related to the repatriation of earnings to the U.S., offset somewhat by the settlement of an IRS audit in the U .S. The open tax years for the IRS, state and most foreign audit authorities are from August 1, 2014 through the current tax year. For certain historical Agilent foreign entities that Keysight retained as part of the Separation, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2005. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that a change to our unrecognized tax benefits will occur in the next twelve months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitation or a tax audit settlement. At January 31, 2015, our estimate of annual effective tax rate is 22.6 percent excluding discrete items and 10.1 percent including discrete items. We determine our interim tax provision using an estimated annual effective tax rate methodology except in jurisdictions where we anticipate a full year loss or we have a year-to-date ordinary loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized. In these jurisdictions, tax expense is computed separately. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the impact of permanent differences, reserves for uncertain tax positions and the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower statutory rates. Segment Overview We have two reportable operating segments, measurement solutions and customer support and services. The measurement solutions segment is primarily the hardware and associated software businesses serving the electronic measurement market. The customer support and services segment provides repair and calibration of the hardware measurement solutions and the resale of used instrument equipment. Measurement Solutions Business Our measurement solutions business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems with related software and software design tools that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. We provide startup assistance, consulting, optimization and application support throughout the customers product lifecycle. Our electronic measurement solutions serve the following markets: communications test, aerospace and defense test, and industrial, computer and semiconductor test. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2015 2014 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 606 $ 574 6% Measurement solutions revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2015 increased 6 percent when compared to the same period last year increasing 8 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Growth in aerospace and defense contributed to 5 percentage points of the increase, and communication test contributed 2 percentage points of the increase, partially offset by a decline in industrial, computer and semiconductor test. Looking forward, near term we believe we are in a slow-growth environment within electronic measurement. In aerospace and defense overall we expect mixed results with slow growth in the United States and low growth in China, offset by a decline in Europe. We expect the industrial, computer and semiconductor market to return to modest growth based on generally healthy economic conditions and modest growth in the computers and semiconductor segment. We expect all segments within the Communications market to have steady growth, with manufacturing growth dependent on growth in smartphone capacity. 25 Table of Contents Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the measurement solutions business' margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2015 versus the three months ended January 31, 2014. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2015 2014 Months ($ in millions) Total gross margin 57.6 % 57.8 % Operating margin 17.7 % 17.2 % 1 ppt Research and development $ 89 $ 85 5% Selling, general and administrative $ 153 $ 148 4% Income from operations $ 107 $ 99 9% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2015 decreased slightly compared to the same period last year primarily due to higher inventory charges and pricing pressure in the wireless manufacturing market offset by lower depreciation, trading expenses and third-party labor expenses. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2015 increased 5 percent when compared to the same period last year. Increases were primarily driven by increases in wages and benefits, variable and incentive pay, higher infrastructure-related and discretionary expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on key strategic opportunities in order to align our business with available markets. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2015 increased 4 percent compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily driven by increases in variable and incentive pay, higher infrastructure-related and discretionary expenses, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2015 increased 1 percentage point compared to the same period last year on higher revenue growth versus lower operating expense growth. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended July 31, 2015 increased $8 million on increased revenue of $32 million. Customer Support and Services Business The customer support and services business provides repair and calibration services for our installed base instrument customers and facilitates the resale of used equipment. Our customer support and services business broadly addresses the same markets as the measurement solutions business, which includes the communications, aerospace and defense and industrial, computer and semiconductor test markets. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2015 2014 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 95 $ 97 (2)% Customer support and services revenue for three months ended January 31, 2015 decreased 2 percent when compared to the same period last year and increased 1 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency, growth in calibration services and remarketing sales of used equipment was partially offset by declines in the equipment repair business due to a reduction in extended warranty revenue as a result of extension of the standard warranty term from one to three years. 26 Table of Contents Looking forward, while the customer support and services business will be impacted by the same market trends as the measurement solutions business, it is typically less variable as orders and revenue are primarily driven from the existing installed base of previously purchased measurement solutions products and less impacted by economic cycles. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the customer support and services business' margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2015 versus the three months ended January 31, 2014. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2015 2014 Months ($ in millions) Total gross margin 42.0 % 46.3 % (4) ppts Operating margin 13.7 % 20.0 % (6) ppts Research and development $ 3 $ 3 % Selling, general and administrative $ 24 $ 23 4% Income from operations $ 13 $ 19 (33)% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2015 decreased 4 percentage points compared to the same period last year primarily due to increased wages and benefits and infrastructure-related costs as well as unfavorable service mix with a higher proportion of lower-margin calibration services. Research and development expense for customer support and services represent the segment's share of centralized investment. Research and development expense was flat for the three months ended January 31, 2015 compared to the same period last year. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2015 increased 4 percentage points when compared to the same period last year due to an increase in centralized field sales organization allocation and increases in infrastructure related costs. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2015 decreased 6 percentage points compared to the same period last year as revenue growth was more than offset by the reductions in gross margin and increased costs. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2015 decreased $6 million or 33 percent on a revenue decrease of $2 million. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of January 31, 2015 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $887 million as compared to $810 million as of October 31, 2014. Substantially all of the balance payable to Agilent as of January 31, 2015 was paid subsequent to quarter end. As of January 31, 2015 , approximately $686 million of our cash and cash equivalents is held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Most of the amounts held outside of the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. We are in discussions with Agilent regarding the allocation of certain deferred tax liability balances related to foreign unremitted earnings in accordance with the separation agreements, and under the currently existing circumstances, non-current deferred tax liabilities have decreased approximately $53 million, which includes our best estimate of $0 for the deferred tax liability related to foreign unremitted earnings. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. 27 Table of Contents We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $92 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 compared to cash provided of $135 million for the same period in 2014. In the three months ended January 31, 2015 , we paid approximately $29 million under our variable and incentive pay programs. Net cash paid for income taxes was approximately $14 million in the three months ended January 31, 2015 . For the three months ended January 31, 2015 and 2014, other assets and liabilities used cash of $13 million and $16 million, respectively. The usage of cash in other assets and liabilities was largely the result of changes in prepaid assets, defined benefit plan liabilities, interest accruals, derivative mark-to-market accruals, current income tax liability and transaction tax assets and liabilities. In the three months ended January 31, 2015 , accounts receivable provided cash of $36 million compared to cash provided of $49 million for the same period in 2014. Revenue increased by approximately 4 percent in the three months ended January 31, 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. Days sales outstanding increased to 40 days as of January 31, 2015 from 39 days a year ago. Accounts payable used cash of $13 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 compared to cash used of $1 million in the same period in 2014. Cash used by inventory was $9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 compared to cash used of $18 million for the same period in 2014. Inventory days on-hand decreased to 135 days as of January 31, 2015 compared to 155 days as of the end of the same period last year. We did not contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans or U.S. post-retirement benefit plan and contributed $14 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the three months ended January 31, 2015 . We do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2015 and expect to contribute approximately $32 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2015 . Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $14 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $11 million for the same period last year. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $15 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 compared to $11 million in the same period of 2014. We expect that total capital expenditures for the current year will be approximately $100 million. Net Cash Provided by/Used in Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2015 was $7 million compared to cash used of $124 million for the same period of 2014. Financing activities in the three months ended January 31, 2015 reflects proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock option plans. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2014 represents cash returned to Agilent. Credit Facility On September 15, 2014, we entered into a five-year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on November 1, 2019. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2015 the company had no borrowings outstanding under the facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facility during the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Long-term debt There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the outstanding senior notes in the three months ended January 31, 2015 as compared to the senior notes as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014 . 28 Table of Contents Other There were no material changes from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014, to our contractual commitments in the first three months of 2015. We have contractual commitments for non-cancelable operating leases. We have no other material non-cancelable guarantees or commitments. Other long-term liabilities include $7 million and $82 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions as of January 31, 2015 and October 31, 2014, respectively (See Note 5, "Income Taxes"). We are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.