ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, the ability of our products to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, and the existence of economic instability, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a measurement company providing electronic test and design solutions to communications and electronics industries. On November 1, 2014, Keysight became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution by Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent") of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of Keysight to Agilent's shareholders (the "Separation"). Each Agilent shareholder of record as of the close of business on October 22, 2014 received one share of Keysight common stock for every two shares of Agilent common stock held on the record date, resulting in the distribution of approximately 167 million shares of Keysight common stock. Keysight's Registration Statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on October 6, 2014. Keysight's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "KEYS" on the New York Stock Exchange on November 3, 2014. For the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015, we recognized non-recurring separation and related costs of $5 million and $7 million, respectively, associated with our separation from Agilent. We expect to recognize additional non-recurring separation and related costs, which are currently estimated to range from $7 million to $12 million, through the remainder of fiscal 2016. These costs are expected to include primarily costs related to infrastructure resizing and optimization. Reclassifications. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2015 includes $6 million of miscellaneous income and expense that was previously classified as other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations, primarily representing rental income, as management believes this is more appropriately classified within our operating results. This change had no effect on reported net income for the periods presented. Executive Summary We provide electronic design and test instruments and systems and related software, software design tools, and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. We plan to invest in product development to address the changing needs of the market and facilitate growth. We are investing in research and development to design measurement solutions that will satisfy the changing needs of our customers. These opportunities are being driven by the need for faster data rates and new form factors, and by evolving technology standards. We have two reportable operating segments, measurement solutions and customer support and services. The measurement solutions segment is primarily the hardware and associated software businesses serving the electronic design and test market. The customer support and services segment provides hardware repair and calibration services and facilitates the resale of used instrument 22 Table of Contents equipment. On November 3, 2015, we announced an organizational structure change to orient our efforts towards complete customer solutions with the creation of Communications Solutions Group, Industrial Solutions Group and Services Solutions Group. This change will support our solutions-oriented approach to more closely align our organization and people to meet the needs of our customers. We are currently in the process of aligning the organization to this new structure and evaluating the impact, if any, on our financial reporting. Three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2016 were $679 million, a decrease of 2 percent when compared to the same period last year. Order declines in the industrial, computer, and semiconductor market were partially offset by an increase in the aerospace and defense and communications markets. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 3 percentage points on the yearoveryear comparison. Orders associated with acquisitions accounted for 6 percentage points of order growth for the three months ended January 31, 2016 when compared to the same period last year. Net revenue of $721 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 increased 3 percent when compared to the same period last year, with the communications market contributing 2 percentage points of the increase and the industrial, computer and semiconductor market contributing 1 percentage point of the increase, while the aerospace and defense market revenue was flat. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on the year-over-year comparison. The revenue associated with acquisitions accounted for approximately 6 percentage points to the increase for the three months ended January 31, 2016 when compared to the same period last year. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was $64 million compared to $70 million for the corresponding period last year. Looking forward, we believe the long-term growth rate of our markets is 2 to 3 percent, although current macroeconomic indicators remain mixed. Our focus is on delivering value through innovative electronic design and test solutions as well as continuously improving our operational efficiency as an independent company. We accelerated our efforts in both wireless communications and software by acquiring Anite in August 2015. This acquisition expands our solutions offering in wireless communications design and test, specifically into the software layer for design and validation and provides an adjacent market opportunity in the Network Test business. Restructuring Activities We initiated a targeted workforce reduction program in July 2015 that was designed to restructure our operations and cost structure for optimization of resources and cost savings. Income statement charges were immaterial for the current quarter. As of January 31, 2016, approximately 94 employees have left and $3 million was paid in severance under the above actions. In 2015, we also announced a voluntary pre-retirement notification program for retirement-eligible employees to provide early notice of their planned retirement in return for severance benefits. Approximately 156 employees of our total workforce opted for this program as of January 31, 2016. Income statement charges were immaterial for the current quarter associated with the headcount reductions. In the current quarter, we paid $2 million in severance under the program. These restructuring programs are expected to result in operational efficiency and net annual savings of approximately $18 million, while maintaining our focus on growing the business. Severance payments under both programs were largely complete at January 31, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the U.S. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, restructuring, warranty, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets and accounting for income taxes. For a detailed description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see "Item 7. Management's 23 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (twelve-month period). Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations Orders and Net Revenue In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Revenue reflects the delivery and acceptance of the products and services as defined on the customer's terms and conditions. Cancellations are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2016 2015 Months (in millions) Orders $ 679 $ 691 (2)% Net revenue: Products $ 601 $ 596 1% Services and other 120 105 14% Total net revenue $ 721 $ 701 3% Orders The following table provides the percent change in orders for the three months ended January 31, 2016 by geographic region including and excluding the impact of currency changes as compared to the same periods last year. Year over Year % Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2016 Geographic Region actual currency adjusted Americas (4 )% (3 )% Europe 4 % 9 % Japan 4 % 7 % Asia Pacific ex-Japan (4 )% (2 )% Total orders (2 )% 1 % 24 Table of Contents Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2016 decreased 2 percent compared to the same period last year. Order declines in the industrial, computer and semiconductor market were partially offset by an increase in aerospace and defense and communications markets. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 3 percentage points on the year-over-year compare. The orders associated with acquisitions accounted for 6 percentage points of order growth for the three months ended January 31, 2016 when compared to the same period last year. Net Revenue The following table provides the percent change in net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016 by geographic region including and excluding the impact of currency changes as compared to the same periods last year. Year over Year % Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2016 Geographic Region actual currency adjusted Americas 3 % 3 % Europe 6 % 11 % Japan 13 % 17 % Asia Pacific ex-Japan (2 )% % Total net revenue 3 % 5 % Net revenue of $721 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 increased 3 percent when compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on the year-over-year compare. Acquisitions added approximately 6 percentage points to the revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016. Revenue from the Americas grew 3 percent, driven by strength in the aerospace and defense market and industrial, computer and semiconductor market, while the communications market was relatively flat. Revenue from Europe grew 6 percent with growth in the communications market, partially offset by decline in the aerospace and defense market, while the industrial, computer and semiconductor market was relatively flat. Japan revenues increased 13 percent driven by growth in all market segments. Revenue from Asia Pacific excluding Japan declined 2 percent with declines in the aerospace and defense market and industrial, computer and semiconductor market, partially offset by strength in the communications market. Revenue from the communications market, including revenue from Anite, represents approximately 33 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016, grew 5 percent year-over-year. It contributed 2 percentage points to our total revenue growth. Excluding Anite, communications revenue declined year-over-year as softness from customers in the smartphone supply chain along with the impact on spending patterns of restructuring and consolidation activities within our customer base outweighed growth in LTE-advanced and 5G technology. Aerospace and defense market revenue, representing approximately 24 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016, decreased 1 percent year-over-year with continued softness in Asia Pacific excluding Japan and Europe, partially offset by growth in Americas and Japan. Industrial, computer and semiconductor market revenue, representing approximately 43 percent of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016, grew 3 percent year-over-year driven by strong sales of our instrument and parametric test products and next generation processor testing. It contributed 1 percentage point to the total revenue growth for the three months ended January 31, 2016. Increases in Japan, Americas and Europe were partially offset by a decline in Asia Pacific excluding Japan. 25 Table of Contents Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended Year over year change January 31, Three 2016 2015 Months Total gross margin 54.3 % 54.6 % ppt Operating margin 13.6 % 12.4 % 1 ppt in millions Research and development $ 108 $ 96 13% Selling, general and administrative $ 200 $ 206 (3)% Other operating expense (income), net $ (14 ) $ (6 ) 136% Gross margin was flat for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period last year as the impact of acquisition related intangible amortization and unfavorable foreign currency was offset by lower inventory and warranty charges. Research and development expense increased 13 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to the same period last year, driven by the Anite acquisition. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expense has increased to 15 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2016 from 14 percent in the same period last year. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities in order to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2016, compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower share-based compensation, favorable impact of foreign currency movements and lower people-related costs, partially offset by increases due to the acquisition of Anite. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 was $14 million and $6 million, respectively; the increase is largely driven by a gain on the sale of land. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2016 increased 1 percentage point when compared to the same period last year, primarily due to lower share-based compensation expense and a gain from the sale of land offset by lower gross margins. At January 31, 2016, our headcount was approximately 10,300 as compared to approximately 9,500 at January 31, 2015, primarily driven by acquisitions. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 was $12 million and relates to interest on our senior notes. Income Taxes As of January 31, 2016, we continue to include a best estimate of the deferred tax liability for foreign unremitted earnings due to the Separation as zero. Excess foreign tax credits associated with unremitted earnings are not recorded as an asset as they do not represent a separate deferred asset until earnings are remitted. However, unremitted foreign taxes reduce deferred tax liabilities associated with outside basis differences related to the investment in a foreign subsidiary to the extent the credit reduces a deferred tax liability of the investment. We continue to have ongoing discussions with Agilent regarding the allocation of certain deferred tax liability balances related to foreign unremitted earnings in accordance with the Separation agreements. The companys effective tax rate was 23.7 percent and 10.1 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Income tax expense was $20 million and $8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 included a net discrete expense of $1 million and a net discrete benefit of $10 million, respectively. 26 Table of Contents Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, and several jurisdictions have granted us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The impact of tax incentives decreased the income tax provision for the three months period ended January 31, 2016 by $8 million, resulting in a net income per share (diluted) benefit of approximately $0.05 per share for the three months ended January 31, 2016. The Singapore tax incentive is due for renewal in fiscal 2024. For the majority of our entities, the open tax years for the IRS, state and most foreign audit authorities are from August 1, 2014, through the current tax year. For certain historical Agilent foreign entities that Keysight retained as part of the separation, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2006. For certain entities acquired during 2015, the tax years also remain open back to the year 2006. Given the number of years and numerous matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, we are unable to estimate the range of possible changes to the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits. At January 31, 2016, our estimate of annual effective tax rate is 22 percent excluding discrete items and 23.7 percent including discrete items. We determine our interim tax provision using an estimated annual effective tax rate methodology except in jurisdictions where we anticipate a full year loss or we have a year-to-date ordinary loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized. In these jurisdictions, tax expense is computed separately. Our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower rates, our permanent reinvestment assertion of foreign subsidiary earnings outside of the U.S., reserves for uncertain tax positions, the extension of the U.S. federal research and development tax credit for part of fiscal year 2015 and all of fiscal year 2016 and the impact of permanent differences. On July 27, 2015, the Tax Court issued an opinion (Altera Corp. et al. v. Commissioner), which invalidated the 2003 final Treasury rule that requires participants in qualified cost-sharing arrangements to share stock-based compensation costs. However, the regulations continue to retain the requirement to include stock-based compensation. The IRS has filed notice of appeal of the Tax Court opinion, and thus, there is uncertainty related to the final resolution of this issue, and the potential favorable benefits to the company. As such, no impact has been recorded at this time. We will continue to monitor developments related to this opinion and the potential impact of those developments on our current and prior fiscal years. Segment Overview We have two reportable operating segments, measurement solutions and customer support and services. The measurement solutions segment is primarily the hardware and associated software businesses serving the electronic design and test market. The customer support and services segment provides hardware repair and calibration services and facilitates the resale of used instrument equipment. The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding, among other things, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring and related costs, asset impairments, acquisition and integration costs, share based compensation, separation and related costs, acquisition related fair value adjustments, interest income and interest expense. Measurement Solutions Business Our measurement solutions business provides electronic design and test instruments and systems with related software and software design tools that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. We provide startup assistance, consulting, optimization and application support throughout the customers product lifecycle. Our electronic design and test solutions serve the following markets: communications test, aerospace and defense test, and industrial, computer and semiconductor test. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2016 2015 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 631 $ 606 4% Measurement solutions revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016 increased 4 percent when compared to the same period last year, increasing 6 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. Revenue from acquisitions added 27 Table of Contents approximately 7 percentage points to the total segment's revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016. Growth in communications and industrial, computer and semiconductors test markets were partially offset by decline in the aerospace and defense test market. Looking forward, near term we believe we are in a slow-growth environment within electronic design and test solutions. In aerospace and defense we expect steady growth in the Americas and continued uncertainty internationally. We expect the industrial, computer and semiconductor market to remain soft impacted by uncertain global economic conditions. We expect all segments within the communications market to remain soft with cautious spending in wireless R&D and manufacturing. Softness from customers in the smartphone supply chain along with the impact on spending patterns of restructuring and consolidation activities within our customer base are outweighing growth in LTE-advanced and 5G technology. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the measurement solutions business' margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2016 versus three months ended January 31, 2015. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2016 2015 Months Total gross margin 59.2 % 57.6 % 2 ppts Operating margin 18.3 % 18.2 % ppt in millions Research and development $ 103 $ 89 16% Selling, general and administrative $ 159 $ 153 4% Other operating expense (income), net $ (4 ) $ (3 ) 19% Income from operations $ 116 $ 110 5% Gross margin increased 2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2016, compared to the same period last year, primarily due to lower people-related costs, lower inventory charges and lower warranty, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impact. Research and development expense increased 16 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2016, compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by the Anite acquisition. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities in order to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 4 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2016, compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by increases due to the acquisition of Anite, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements and lower people-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 was $4 million and $3 million, respectively, and primarily represents rental income. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was flat compared to the same period last year. Growth in the gross margin was offset by an increase in operating expenses primarily due to the acquisition of Anite. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2016 increased $6 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $6 million when compared to the same period last year. Customer Support and Services Business The customer support and services business provides hardware repair and calibration services and facilitates the resale of used equipment. Our customer support and services business broadly addresses the same markets as the measurement solutions business, which includes the communications, aerospace and defense and industrial, computer and semiconductor test markets. 28 Table of Contents Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2016 2015 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 95 $ 95 % Customer support and services revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was flat when compared to the same period last year and increased 4 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. The revenue increase associated with acquisitions accounted for approximately 2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2016 when compared to the same period last year. Increases in calibration services and re-marketing sales of used equipment was partially offset by declines in the equipment repair business. Revenue growth in Americas and Japan was offset by declines in Asia pacific excluding Japan. Looking forward, while the customer support and services business will be impacted by the same market trends as the measurement solutions business, it is typically less cyclical as orders and revenue are primarily driven from the existing installed base of previously purchased measurement solutions products and less impacted by economic cycles. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the customer support and services business' margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2016 versus the three months ended January 31, 2015. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2016 2015 Months Total gross margin 39.6 % 42.0 % (2) ppts Operating margin 13.9 % 14.3 % ppt in millions Research and development $ 2 $ 3 (24)% Selling, general and administrative $ 23 $ 24 (5)% Other operating expense (income), net $ (1 ) $ (1 ) (12)% Income from operations $ 13 $ 14 (3)% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2016 decreased 2 percentage points compared to the same period last year primarily reflecting the investments we are making in additional capacity to expand our multi-vendor calibration and asset management services. Research and development expense for customer support and services represents the segment's share of centralized investment. Research and development expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2016 decreased 24 percent compared to the same period last year. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2016 decreased 5 percent when compared to the same period last year due to lower field selling costs. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was flat. The gross margin decline was offset by lower operating expenses. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2016 decreased $1 million on a corresponding flat revenue when compared to the same period last year. The gross margin decline was partially offset by lower operating expenses. 29 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of January 31, 2016 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $572 million as compared to $483 million as of October 31, 2015. As of January 31, 2016, approximately $410 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Much of the non-U.S. cash will be needed for non-U.S. growth and expansion. However, some non-U.S. cash could be repatriated to the U.S. Under current law, such repatriation would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. We continue to be in discussions with Agilent regarding the allocation of certain deferred tax liability balances related to foreign unremitted earnings in accordance with the separation agreements. Excess foreign tax credits associated with unremitted earnings are not recorded as an asset as they do not represent a separate deferred asset until earnings are remitted. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. All significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cashpool for working capital needs, in addition to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding, variable pay and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $92 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to cash provided of $92 million for the same period in 2015. Net income for the first three months of fiscal 2016 decreased $6 million. Changes to non-cash income and expenses included a $10 million increase to amortization expense as compared to the same period last year due to the impact of recently acquired businesses, a $13 million decrease to stock-based compensation expense as the first three months of fiscal 2015 included expense associated with one-time inaugural grants, a $10 million gain from a land sale in the first three months of fiscal 2016, a $5 million increase in deferred tax expense and $3 million of higher expense associated with investment losses. The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable provided net operating cash of $7 million during the first three months of fiscal 2016, compared to $14 million provided in the comparable period last year. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable depends upon how effectively we manage the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of collections and payments in a period. Net cash paid to Agilent under separation and distribution agreement was zero for three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to the $14 million during the corresponding period last year. The aggregate of employee compensation and benefits, income tax payable and other assets and liabilities used net operating cash of $20 million during the first three months of fiscal 2016, compared to $18 million used in the comparable period last year. Share purchases of $15 million under the employee stock purchase plan in the first three months of fiscal 2016 were partially offset by lower payments under our variable and incentive pay programs, which were $20 million in the first three months of 2016 compared to $29 million in the same period last year, and lower tax payments during the period. We contributed $10 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the first three months of fiscal 2016, compared to $14 million in the same period last year. We expect to contribute approximately $29 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2016. For the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015, we did not contribute 30 Table of Contents to our U.S. defined benefit plans or U.S. post-retirement benefit plan and we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2016. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $24 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $14 million for the same period last year. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $34 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 compared to $15 million in the same period last year. The increase in capital expenditures is primarily due to the timing of payments. We expect that total capital expenditures for the current year will be approximately $90 million. We also received $10 million of proceeds from the sale of land in the three months ended January 31, 2016. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Cash flows related to financing activities consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance of common stock and excess tax benefits from share-based plans. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was $25 million compared to cash provided of $7 million for the same period in 2015, primarily due to proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). The first issuance of Keysight shares under the ESPP was in May 2015. Credit Facility On September 15, 2014, we entered into a five year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on November 1, 2019. On July 21, 2015, we entered into an Accession Agreement, increasing the credit facility from $300 million to $450 million. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2016 the company had no borrowings outstanding under the facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facility during the three months ended January 31, 2016 . As a result of the Anite acquisition, we have an overdraft facility of 25 million that will expire on July 31, 2016. As of January 31, 2016, the company had no borrowings outstanding under the facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facility during the three months ended January 31, 2016 . Long-term debt There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the outstanding senior notes in the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to the senior notes as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015. Other There were no material changes from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015, to our contractual commitments in the first three months of 2016. We have contractual commitments for non-cancelable operating leases. We have no other material non-cancelable guarantees or commitments. Other long-term liabilities include $24 million and $21 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions as of January 31, 2016 and October 31, 2015, respectively (See Note 5, "Income Taxes"). We are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.