Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Potential indemnification liabilities to Agilent pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for any liabilities associated with assets used by our business; our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by Agilent for our benefit, unless they are liabilities related to assets used in the Agilent business; any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in the registration statement or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or the company and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. If we are required to indemnify Agilent under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. In connection with our separation from Agilent, Agilent will indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Agilent's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements with Agilent, Agilent agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Agilent has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Agilent will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Agilent will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, Agilent's insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Agilent or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We will be subject to continuing contingent liabilities of Agilent following the separation. After the separation, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of Agilent may become our obligations. For example, under the Internal Revenue Code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the Agilent U.S. consolidated group during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire Agilent U.S. consolidated group for that taxable period. Consequently, if Agilent is unable to pay the consolidated U.S. federal income tax liability for a prior period, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to it under the tax matters agreement between us and Agilent. Other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. There could be significant liability if the distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. A condition to the distribution is that Agilent received an opinion of Baker & McKenzie LLP, tax counsel to Agilent, regarding the qualification of the separation and the distribution as a reorganization within the meaning of Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Agilent and Keysight, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, Agilent and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the opinion, and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the distribution were determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Agilent and its shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. For example, if the distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, Agilent would for U.S. federal income tax purposes be treated as if it had sold the Keysight common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and Agilent's shareholders, who are subject to U.S. federal income tax, would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Keysight common stock received in the distribution. In addition, if the separation and distribution failed to qualify for tax-free treatment under federal, 20 Table of Contents state and local tax law and/or foreign tax law, Agilent (and, under the tax matters agreement described below, Keysight) could incur significant tax liabilities under U.S. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law. Under the tax matters agreement between Agilent and Keysight, we are generally required to indemnify Agilent against taxes incurred by Agilent that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code. Under the tax matters agreement between Agilent and Keysight, we may also be required to indemnify Agilent for other contingent tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. We may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions for a two-year period after the separation. To preserve the tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Agilent of the separation and distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we have entered into with Agilent, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents the separation and distribution from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under the tax matters agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, we are prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from entering into acquisition, merger, liquidation, sale and stock redemption transactions with respect to our stock if such transactions, taken as a whole, would result in one or more persons acquiring forty percent (40%) or more of the outstanding Keysight stock. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our shareholders or that might increase the value of our business. In addition, under the tax matters agreement, we may be required to indemnify Agilent against any such tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of Keysight's stock or assets, even if we did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition. Certain of our executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity interest in Agilent. The ownership by our executive officers and some of our directors of common shares of Agilent may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their current or former positions with Agilent, certain of our executive officers and directors own Agilent common shares. The individual holdings of common shares may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons' total assets. Even though our board of directors consist of a majority of directors who are independent, and our executive officers ceased to be employees of Agilent upon the separation, continuing ownership of Agilent common shares by our executive officers and some of our directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if Keysight and Agilent pursue the same corporate opportunities or face decisions that could have different implications for Keysight and Agilent. The one-time and ongoing costs of the spin-off may be greater than we expected. We have and will continue to incur costs in connection with our transition to being a stand-alone public company that relate primarily to accounting, tax, legal and other professional costs; financing costs in connection with obtaining our financing as a stand-alone company; compensation, such as modifications to certain incentive awards as a result of spin-off; recruiting and relocation costs associated with hiring our senior management personnel; and costs to separate assets and information systems. These costs, whether incurred before or after the spin-off, may be greater than anticipated and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our share price may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock is listed on NYSE under the ticker symbol KEYS. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company; 21 Table of Contents natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or government investigations; changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, when the market price of a companys shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. We cannot guarantee the payment of dividends on our common stock, or the timing or amount of any such dividends. We do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our shareholders will fall within the discretion of our board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. We cannot guarantee that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividends if we commence paying dividends. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and the requirement that the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least 80% of our voting stock is required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (relating to the number, term and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, the advance notice to be given for nominations for elections of directors, the calling of special meetings of shareholders, shareholder action by written consent, the ability of the board of directors to amend the bylaws, elimination of liability of directors to the extent permitted by Delaware law, exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and amendments of the certificate of incorporation) and certain provisions in our amended and restated bylaws (relating to the calling of special meetings of shareholders, the business that may be conducted or considered at annual or special meetings, the advance notice of shareholder business and nominations, shareholder action by written consent, the number, tenure, qualifications and removal of our directors, the filling of our board vacancies, director and officer indemnification and amendments of the bylaws). In addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation (an "interested stockholder") shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of 22 Table of Contents determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. We believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the tax matters agreement, we would be required to indemnify Agilent for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the State of Delaware or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the State of Delaware or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or Keysight's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our executive offices are located in the United States in an owned facility in Santa Rosa, California. We own or lease a total of approximately 145 operating facilities located throughout the world that handle manufacturing production, assembly, sales, quality, assurance testing, distribution and packaging of our products. These facilities are located in the following countries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, Russia, Singapore, Spain, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Arab Emirates and the United States. As of October 31, 2015, we own or lease a total of approximately 5.8 million square feet of space worldwide, of which we own approximately 4.1 million square feet and lease 1.7 million square feet. Our sales and support facilities occupy a total of approximately 0.5 million square feet. Our manufacturing plants, R&D facilities and warehouse and administrative facilities occupy approximately 5.3 million square feet. All of these facilities are well maintained and suitable for the operations conducted in them. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including, but not limited to, patent, commercial and environmental matters, which arise in the ordinary course of business. There are no matters pending that we currently believe are reasonably possible of having a material impact to our business, combined and consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 23 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") with the ticker symbol "KEYS. High and low sales prices per share of our common stock as reported by the NYSE for each full quarterly period of fiscal years 2014 are not provided as Keysight common shares did not begin "regular way" trading on the NYSE until November 3, 2014. The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices per quarter for the fiscal year 2015 as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange: Fiscal 2015 High Low Dividends First Quarter (ended January 31, 2015) $ 36.33 $ 28.56 Second Quarter (ended April 30, 2015) $ 38.99 $ 33.37 Third Quarter (ended July 31, 2015) $ 36.31 $ 29.51 Fourth Quarter (ended October 31, 2015) $ 34.13 $ 29.28 There were 25,139 shareholders of record of Keysight common stock as of December 14, 2015. We have not paid any dividends or repurchased any stock to date, and we currently intend to retain any future income to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends or repurchase stock in the foreseeable future. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends and repurchase stock are at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be evaluated regularly in light of our financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors that our Board deems relevant. The information required by this item with respect to equity compensation plans is included under the caption Equity Compensation Plans in our proxy statement for the 2016 annual meeting of stockholders, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 6. Selected Financial Data (Unaudited) The following table presents the selected combined and consolidated financial data, which should be read in conjunction with our combined and consolidated financial statements and related notes and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We derived the selected financial data as of October 31, 2015 and for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended October 31, 2015 from our audited combined and consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We derived the selected financial data as of October 31, 2012 and for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2011 from audited combined financial statements that are not included in this Form 10-K. Our historical combined and consolidated financial statements include certain expenses of Agilent that were allocated to us for certain functions, including general corporate expenses related to information technology, research and development, finance, legal, insurance, compliance and human resources activities. These costs may not be representative of the future costs we will incur as an independent public company. The historical financial information included here may not necessarily reflect our financial position and results of operations or what our financial position and results of operations would have been had we been an independent, publicly-traded company during the historical periods presented or be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. 24 Table of Contents Years Ended October 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in millions, except per share data) Combined and Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 2,856 $ 2,933 $ 2,888 $ 3,315 $ 3,316 Income before taxes $ 388 $ 475 $ 501 $ 746 $ 749 Net income $ 513 $ 392 $ 457 $ 841 $ 787 Net income per share (a) Basic $ 3.04 $ 2.35 $ 2.74 $ 5.04 $ 4.71 Diluted $ 3.00 $ 2.35 $ 2.74 $ 5.04 $ 4.71 Weighted average shares used in computing net income per share (a) Basic 169 167 167 167 167 Diluted 171 167 167 167 167 October 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in millions) Combined and Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 483 $ 810 $ $ $ Working capital $ 893 $ 1,081 $ 412 $ 398 $ 272 Total assets $ 3,508 $ 3,050 $ 2,028 $ 2,133 $ 1,908 Long-term debt $ 1,099 $ 1,099 $ $ $ Stockholders'/Invested equity $ 1,302 $ 769 $ 1,245 $ 1,305 $ 996 (a) On November 1, 2014, Agilent Technologies, Inc. distributed 167 million shares of Keysight common stock to existing holders of Agilent common stock. Basic and diluted net income per share for all periods through October 31, 2014 is calculated using the shares distributed on November 1, 2014. Refer to Note 7 of the combined and consolidated financial statements for information regarding earnings per common share. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the combined and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, the ability of our products to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, and the existence of economic instability, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Basis of Presentation and Separation from Agilent Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a measurement company providing core electronic design and test solutions to communications and electronics industries. Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. 25 Table of Contents On November 1, 2014, Keysight Technologies, Inc. (we, "our," Keysight or "the company) became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution by Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent") of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of Keysight to Agilent's shareholders (the "Separation"). Each Agilent shareholder of record as of the close of business on October 22, 2014, received one share of Keysight common stock for every two shares of Agilent common stock held on the record date. Keysight was incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013 and is comprised of Agilent's former electronic measurement business. Keysight's Registration Statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 6, 2014. Keysight's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "KEYS" on the New York Stock Exchange on November 3, 2014. Agilent transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of the electronic measurement business to Keysight in August 2014 ("the Capitalization"). Combined f inancial statements prior to the Capitalization were prepared on a stand-alone basis derived from Agilents consolidated financial statements and accounting records, including expenses that were allocated to us using estimates that we consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by us. Following the Capitalization, the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our subsidiaries. For the first half of fiscal year 2015, Agilent provided some services on a transitional basis for a fee, which were partially offset by other operating income from Keysight services provided to Agilent. These services were received or provided under a transition services agreement. The net costs associated with the transition services agreement were not materially different than the historical costs that were allocated to us related to these same services. We are incurring other incremental costs as an independent, publicly traded company as compared to the costs historically allocated to us by Agilent. These incremental costs are estimated to be approximately $15 million on an annual pre-tax basis. In addition, for the years ended October 31, 2015 and 2014, we recognized non-recurring separation and related costs of $20 million and $78 million, respectively. We expect to recognize additional non-recurring separation and related costs, which are currently estimated to range from $12 million to $17 million through fiscal 2016. These costs are expected to include primarily costs related to infrastructure resizing and optimization. Overview and Executive Summary We provide electronic measurement instruments and systems and related software, software design tools, and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle. We plan to invest in product development to address the changing needs of the market and facilitate growth. We are investing in research and development to design measurement solutions that will satisfy the changing needs of our customers. These opportunities are being driven by the need for faster data rates and new form factors, and by evolving technology standards. We have two reportable operating segments, measurement solutions and customer support and services. The measurement solutions segment is primarily the hardware and associated software businesses serving the electronic measurement market. The customer support and services segment provides repair and calibration of the hardware measurement solutions and the resale of used instrument equipment. Years ended October 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 Total orders in 2015 were $2,853 million, a decrease of 4 percent when compared to 2014. Order declines in aerospace and defense and communications markets were partially offset by a slight increase in industrial, computer, and semiconductor market. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 4 percentage points on the yearoveryear comparison. Orders associated with acquisitions accounted for 1 percentage point of order growth for the year ended October 31, 2015 when compared to 2014. Orders of $2,963 million in 2014 increased 3 percent when compared to 2013 with growth in all markets. Net revenue of $2,856 million in 2015 decreased 3 percent when compared to 2014, with communications market contributing 2 percentage points of the decrease and industrial, computer and semiconductor market contributing 1 percentage point of the decrease, while aerospace and defense market revenue was flat. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 4 percentage points on the year over year comparison. The revenue increase associated with acquisitions accounted for approximately 1 percentage point for the year ended October 31, 2015 when compared to 2014. Net revenue of $2,933 million in 2014 increased 2 percent when compared to 2013, with industrial, computer and semiconductor market contributing 2 percentage points of the increase, and communications market contributing 1 percentage point of the increase, partially offset by a decline in aerospace and defense market revenue. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point on the year over year comparison. 26 Table of Contents Net income was $513 million in 2015 compared to net income of $392 million in 2014 and $457 million in 2013. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we generated operating cash flows of $376 million, $563 million and $566 million, respectively. Looking forward, we believe the long-term growth rate of our markets is 2 to 3 percent, although current macroeconomic indicators remain mixed. We intend to leverage our unique formula of hardware plus software plus people to create value for our customers and shareholders. Our focus is on delivering value through innovative electronic design and test solutions as well as improving our operational efficiency as an independent company. We accelerated our efforts in both wireless communications and software by acquiring Anite in August 2015. This acquisition expands our solutions offering in wireless communications design and test, specifically into the software layer for design and validation and provides an adjacent market opportunity in Network Test. Restructuring Activities We initiated a targeted workforce reduction program in July 2015 that is expected to reduce Keysight's total headcount by approximately 104 employees, representing approximately 1 percent of our global workforce. The timing and scope of workforce reductions will vary based on local legal requirements. This is a targeted workforce management program designed to restructure our operations and cost structure for optimization of resources and cost savings. In the current year, we recognized $8 million of expense associated with the headcount reduction under this workforce reduction program. As of October 31, 2015, approximately 70 employees have left and $5 million was paid in severance under the above actions. We also announced a Pre-retirement notification program for retirement-eligible employees to provide early notice of their planned retirement in return for severance benefits. The program is entirely voluntary and can be initiated only by an employee. Approximately 160 employees of our total workforce opted for early retirement under this program as of October 31, 2015. In the current year, we recognized $8 million of expense associated with the headcount reductions and paid $6 million in severance under the Pre-Retirement Notification program. When completed, these programs are expected to result in operational efficiency and net annual savings of approximately $18 million, while maintaining our focus on growing the business. As of October 31, 2015, we have a remaining accrual of $6 million under these plans. We expect to complete a majority of these actions by the end of first quarter of fiscal year 2016. Acquisitions Acquisition of Anite. On August 13, 2015, we acquired all share capital of Anite for a cash purchase price of $558 million, net of $43 million cash acquired. Anite is a U.K.-based global company and a leading supplier of wireless test solutions with strong software expertise. This acquisition strengthens our wireless software design and test portfolio and its Network Test business expands our served addressable market. Coupled with Keysight's expertise in helping customers design and test hardware, we can now provide customers with more comprehensive wireless hardware and software solutions. Anites Network Test business will also enable us to provide innovative solutions that help customers deliver an outstanding experience for mobile users in the network. Anite results are included in Keysight's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition and are reported in the measurement solutions segment. We financed the acquisition with available cash. For additional detail related to the acquisition of Anite, see Note 3, "Acquisitions." Acquisition of Electroservices. On August 28, 2015, we acquired all share capital of Electroservices Enterprises Limited for a cash purchase price of $16 million, net of $1 million cash acquired. Electroservices is a U.K.-based company, specializing in test equipment service and solutions. Electroservices provides a broad range of electrical, mechanical and physical/dimensional calibration, repair and asset management services to defense, telecom and industrial customers. The Electroservices acquisition supports our initiative to grow Keysight services. Electroservices results are included in Keysight's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition and are reported in the customer support and services segment. Investments In June 2015, we purchased $7 million of preferred stock of a privately held radio frequency microstructure company. We are accounting for this investment using the cost method. In 2015, other cost method investments with a carrying amount of $4 million were written down to their fair value of zero, resulting in an impairment charge of $4 million, which is included in other income (expense), net. There were no impairments recognized in 2014 and 2013. 27 Table of Contents Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our combined and consolidated statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated balance sheet and combined and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis of up to a rolling twelve- month period. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations-Years ended October 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 Orders and Net Revenue In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Revenue reflects the delivery and acceptance of the products and services as defined on the customers terms and conditions. Cancellations are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Years Ended October 31, 2015 over 2014 % Change 2014 over 2013 % Change 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) Orders $ 2,853 $ 2,963 $ 2,866 (4)% 3% Net revenue: Products $ 2,408 $ 2,479 $ 2,434 (3)% 2% Services and other 448 454 454 (1)% % Total net revenue $ 2,856 $ 2,933 $ 2,888 (3)% 2% Years Ended October 31, 2015 over 2014 Ppts Change 2014 over 2013 Ppts Change 2015 2014 2013 % of total net revenue: Products 84 % 85 % 84 % (1) ppt 1 ppt Services and other 16 % 15 % 16 % 1 ppt (1) ppt Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Orders The following table provides the percent change in orders for the years ended October 31, 2015 and 2014 by geographic region, including and excluding the impact of currency changes, as compared to the respective prior year. Year over Year % Change 2015 over 2014 2014 over 2013 Geographic Region actual currency adjusted actual currency adjusted Americas % 1 % 3 % 3 % Europe (9 )% (3 )% 6 % 5 % Japan (2 )% 10 % (16 )% (9 )% Asia Pacific ex-Japan (6 )% (4 )% 11 % 11 % Total orders (4 )% % 3 % 4 % Total orders decreased 4 percent in 2015 compared to 2014. Order declines in communications and aerospace and defense markets were partially offset by growth in the industrial, computers and semiconductor market. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 4 percentage points on the year-over-year compare. The orders associated with acquisitions accounted for 1 percentage point of order growth for the year ended October 31, 2015 when compared to 2014. Total orders increased 3 28 Table of Contents percent in 2014 when compared to 2013. Orders increased in all markets, including aerospace and defense, industrial, computer, and semiconductor and communications. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point on the year-over-year compare. Net Revenue The following table provides the percent change in revenue for the years ended October 31, 2015 and 2014 by geographic region, including and excluding the impact of currency changes, as compared to the respective prior year. Year over Year % Change 2015 over 2014 2014 over 2013 Geographic Region actual currency adjusted actual currency adjusted Americas 3 % 4 % (3 )% (2 )% Europe (8 )% % 5 % 4 % Japan (6 )% 6 % (9 )% % Asia Pacific ex-Japan (5 )% (4 )% 8 % 9 % Total revenue (3 )% 1 % 2 % 3 % Net revenue of $2,856 million in 2015 decreased 3 percent when compared to 2014. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 4 percentage points on the year-over-year compare. The revenue increase associated with acquisitions accounted for approximately 1 percentage point for the year ended October 31, 2015 when compared to 2014. Revenue from the Americas grew 3 percent, driven by strong aerospace and defense and industrial, computer and semiconductor markets, partially offset by a decline in the communications market. Revenue from Asia Pacific excluding Japan declined 5 percent due to weakness in communications and industrial, computer and semiconductor markets, partially offset by strength in the aerospace and defense market. Europe revenue declined 8 percent with declines in aerospace and defense and communications markets, partially offset by growth in the industrial, computer and semiconductor markets. Japan revenues declined 6 percent impacted by an unfavorable currency impact of 12 percentage points on the year-over-year compare. Declines in the aerospace and defense market were partially offset by an increase in the communications market. Net revenue of $2,933 million for 2014 increased 2 percent as compared to 2013. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point on the year-over-year compare. Revenue from Asia Pacific excluding Japan grew 8 percent, driven by growth in communications and industrial, computer and semiconductor markets. Europe revenue increased 5 percent year-over-year from growth in the communications markets. Revenue from the Americas declined 3 percent year-over-year, with lower revenue from aerospace and defense and communications markets. Japan revenues declined 9 percent year-over-year, impacted by an unfavorable currency impact of 9 percentage points. Declines were primarily in the Communications market. Communications market revenue, representing approximately 33 percent of total revenue for the year ended October 31, 2015, contributed 2 percentage points to the total revenue decline with decreases in wireless manufacturing partially offset by growth in broadband communications and wireless R&D. The decrease in wireless manufacturing reflects the difficult compares to last years strength in 4G base station and infrastructure manufacturing for China. Weakness in the smartphone/device manufacturing segment continued. Wireless R&D grew year-over-year with LTE and LTE-Advanced technology development continuing to drive investment. In 2014, communications market revenue, representing approximately 34 percent of total revenue, contributed 1 percentage point to the total revenue increase as compared to 2013 with increases in wireless manufacturing and the broadband communications business, partially offset by modest declines in wireless R&D. Aerospace and defense market revenue, representing approximately 23 percent of total revenue for the year ended October 31, 2015, increased 1 percent year-over-year with growth in Americas and Asia Pacific excluding Japan, partially offset by declines in Europe and Japan. In 2014, aerospace and defense market revenue, representing approximately 22 percent of total revenue, contributed a 1 percentage point decline in total revenue as compared to 2013, with declines in all regions, however we saw positive growth in the last half of fiscal 2014. Industrial, computer and semiconductor market revenue, representing approximately 44 percent of total revenue for the year ended October 31, 2015, contributed 1 percentage point to the total revenue decline as compared to 2014. Declines in Japan and Asia Pacific excluding Japan were partially offset by growth in the Americas and Europe. In 2014, industrial, computer and semiconductor market revenue, representing approximately 44 percent of the total revenue, contributed 2 percentage points to the year-over-year increase compared to 2013. The computer and semiconductor increase was driven by investment in capacity growth and the overall strength in the semiconductor market. The industrial test business grew for the year with particular strength in the last fiscal quarter driven by growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific, excluding Japan. 29 Table of Contents Backlog Backlog represents the amount of revenue expected from orders that have already been booked, including orders for goods and services that have not been delivered to customers, orders invoiced but not yet recognized as revenue, and orders for goods that were shipped but not invoiced, awaiting acceptance by customers. At October 31, 2015, our unfilled backlog was approximately $779 million as compared to approximately $781 million at October 31, 2014. For the measurement solutions business, our backlog was approximately $653 million at October 31, 2015 as compared to approximately $627 million at October 31, 2014. Within our customer services and support business, our backlog was approximately $126 million at October 31, 2015 as compared to approximately $154 million at October 31, 2014. The reduction in the customer services and support business backlog in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to a change in our standard warranty term, which increased from one to three years for most of our products in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. Revenue associated with extended warranties, which provide coverage beyond the standard warranty term, is deferred and amortized over the extended period of coverage. As a result of the extension of the standard warranty term, backlog associated with extended warranties has declined. Three-year warranty is now included as part of the total solution, and the value is captured as part of the initial sales price. We expect that a majority of the backlog will be recognized as revenue within six months. On average, our backlog represents approximately three months' of revenue. We believe backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance. Costs and Expenses Years Ended October 31, 2015 over 2014 % Change 2014 over 2013 % Change 2015 2014 2013 Gross margin on products 57.4 % 56.3 % 57.1 % 1 ppt (1) ppt Gross margin on services and other 45.6 % 49.4 % 51.3 % (4) ppts (2) ppts Total gross margin 55.6 % 55.2 % 56.2 % (1) ppt Operating margin 15.1 % 16.0 % 17.2 % (1) ppt (1) ppt (in millions) Research and development $ 387 $ 361 $ 375 7% (4)% Selling, general and administrative $ 787 $ 790 $ 752 % 5% Other operating expense (income), net $ (18 ) $ $ % % Gross margin remained flat in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to lower depreciation, warranty and inventory charges, offset by lower volume. Gross margin declined 1 percentage point in 2014 compared to 2013 on slightly higher revenue. Higher inventory charges and pricing pressure in the wireless manufacturing market were the primary reasons for the lower gross margin. Excess and obsolete inventory charges were $28 million in 2015, $33 million in 2014 and $21 million in 2013. Sales of previously written-down inventory were $2 million in 2015 and $1 million in 2014 and 2013. Research and development expense increased 7 percent in 2015 compared to 2014. The increased expenditure was due to our continued investment in research and development programs and increased costs due to the acquisitions, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. As a percentage of total revenue, research and development expenses increased 2 percentage points to 14 percent in 2015 from 12 percent in 2014. We expect investment in research and development to continue at current levels and have focused our development efforts on strategic growth opportunities. Research and development expenses declined 4 percent in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to lower infrastructure-related expenses. Reductions in development spending, variable and incentive pay, and infrastructure-related expenses, and the favorable impact of currency movements were partially offset by investments in acquisitions and wage increases. Selling, general and administrative expenses were flat in 2015 when compared to 2014, primarily driven by lower separation costs and favorable impact of currency movements, offset by increases in share-based compensation, restructuring programs and increased costs due to acquisitions, primarily Anite. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5 percent in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to higher costs related to non-recurring pre-separation transaction costs and an increase in marketing expenses, partially offset by reductions in infrastructure costs and the favorable impact of currency movements. 30 Table of Contents Other operating expense (income), net for 2015 was $(18) million, which includes primarily rental income. Operating margins declined 1 percentage point in 2015 compared to 2014 on lower revenue volume and increases in research and development expenses, restructuring programs, acquisition and integration related expenses, offset by decline in separation costs and the favorable impact of foreign currency. Operating margins declined 1 percentage point in 2014 compared to 2013 driven primarily by one-time separation costs. As of October 31, 2015, our headcount was approximately 10,250 compared to 9,600 in 2014 primarily as a result of the acquisition of Anite. Interest Expense Interest expense for the year ended October 31, 2015 and 2014 was $46 million and $3 million, respectively, and relates to interest on our senior notes issued in October 2014. Income Taxes Years Ended October 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (125 ) $ 83 $ 44 For 2015, the effective tax rate was a benefit of 32 percent, which is lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the retroactive benefit of two tax incentives in Singapore approved during 2015. Also, the tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to the mix of earnings in the non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower statutory tax rates. For 2014, the effective tax rate was 18 percent. The 18 percent effective tax is lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower statutory tax rates in particular Singapore, where we benefited from tax incentives for the first three quarters of 2014, which resulted in $40 million lower income tax expense. The 2014 rate was also favorably impacted by a $55 million benefit from a prior year reserve release, which was offset by $62 million of tax expense as a result of the repatriation of foreign earnings. For 2013, the effective tax rate was 9 percent. The 9 percent effective tax is lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower statutory tax rates in particular Singapore, where we benefited from tax incentives. We benefit from tax incentives in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, and several jurisdictions have granted or are anticipated to grant us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The tax incentives are due for renewal between 2016 and 2023. The impact of the tax incentives decreased income taxes by $250 million, $40 million and $68 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes in the combined and consolidated statements of operations. For the majority of our entities, the open tax years for the IRS, state and most foreign audit authorities are from August 1, 2014, through the current tax year. For certain historical Agilent foreign entities that Keysight retained as part of the separation, the tax years generally remain open back to the year 2005. For certain entities acquired during 2015, the tax years also remain open back to the year 2005. Given the number of years and numerous matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, we are unable to estimate the range of possible changes to the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits. 31 Table of Contents For fiscal 2014 and prior, we have calculated our taxes on a separate return basis. However, the amounts recorded for fiscal 2014 and prior are not necessarily representative of the amounts that would have been reflected in the financial statements had we been an entity that operated independently of Agilent. Consequently, our results after our separation from Agilent may be materially different from our historical results. Segment Overview We have two reportable operating segments, measurement solutions and customer support and services. The measurement solutions segment is primarily the hardware and associated software businesses serving the electronic measurement market. The customer support and services segment provides hardware repair and calibration and the resale of used instrument equipment. The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding restructuring and asset impairment charges, investment gains and losses, interest income, interest expense, acquisition and integration costs, separation and related costs, acquisition-related fair value adjustments and non-cash amortization. In 2015, we began excluding share-based compensation expense in addition to the items noted above to derive segment profitability. Prior year numbers have been revised to reflect the change. Measurement Solutions Business Our measurement solutions business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems with related software and software design tools that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. We provide start-up assistance, consulting, optimization and application support throughout our customers product lifecycle. Our electronic design and test solutions serve the following markets: communications, aerospace and defense, and industrial, computer and semiconductor. Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2015 over 2014 % Change 2014 over 2013 % Change 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) Total net revenue $ 2,461 $ 2,533 $ 2,493 (3)% 2% Measurement solutions net revenue in 2015 decreased 3 percent compared to 2014, and was flat excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. The decline is driven primarily by lower revenue from the communications market, which contributed 2 percentage points to the decline, and the industrial, computer and semiconductor market which contributed 1 percentage point to the decline, while aerospace and defense market revenue was flat. Revenue from the Anite acquisition added approximately 1 percentage point to the revenue increase for the year ended October 31, 2015. Measurement solutions net revenue in 2014 increased 2 percent compared to 2013, with modest growth in the industrial, computer and semiconductor market contributing 2 percentage points to the increase, and the communications market contributing 1 percentage point to the increase, partially offset by a decline in aerospace and defense market revenue. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the measurement solutions business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2015 versus 2014 , and 2014 versus 2013 . Years Ended October 31, 2015 over 2014 % Change 2014 over 2013 % Change 2015 2014 2013 Total gross margin 59.1 % 57.6 % 58.6 % 2 ppts (1) ppt Operating margin 19.8 % 20.1 % 19.4 % 1 ppt in millions Research and development $ 367 $ 343 $ 351 7% (2)% Selling, general and administrative $ 613 $ 608 $ 625 1% (2)% Other operating expense (income), net $ (13 ) $ $ % % Income from operations $ 487 $ 508 $ 484 (4)% 5% 32 Table of Contents Gross margin in 2015 increased 2 percentage points when compared to 2014 primarily due to lower depreciation, warranty and inventory charges. Gross margin in 2014 decreased 1 percentage point when compared to 2013 primarily due to higher inventory charges and pricing pressure in the wireless manufacturing market. Research and development expenses increased 7 percent in 2015 compared to 2014. Increased expenditures were due to our continued investment in research and development programs and increased costs due to the Anite acquisition, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency movements. Research and development expenses decreased 2 percent in 2014 compared to 2013 driven primarily by lower infrastructure costs. We expect investment in research and development to continue at current levels and have focused our development efforts on strategic growth opportunities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1 percent in 2015 compared to 2014, driven primarily by the increased costs related to the Anite acquisition, higher infrastructure-related costs and advertising and marketing expenses, which are partially offset by lower people-related costs and favorable currency movements. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2 percent in 2014 compared to 2013. Decreases in infrastructure costs were partially offset by increases in marketing and discretionary spending. Operating margin remained flat in 2015 compared to 2014 as higher gross margin was offset by increases in operating expenses, primarily due to increased costs related to the Anite acquisition and investments in R&D programs. Operating margin increased by 1 percentage point in 2014 compared to 2013 on higher revenue and lower operating expenses. Income from Operations Income from operations in 2015 decreased by $21 million, or 4 percent, on revenue decline of $72 million. Income from operations in 2014 increased by $24 million, or 5 percent, on a revenue increase of $40 million. Customer Support and Services Business Our customer support and services business provides hardware repair and calibration services and facilitates the resale of used equipment. Our customer support and services business enables our customers to maximize the value from their electronic measurement equipment and strengthens customer loyalty. Providing these services assures a high level of instrument performance and availability, while minimizing the cost of ownership and downtime. Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2015 over 2014 % Change 2014 over 2013 % Change 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) Total net revenue $ 401 $ 400 $ 395 % 1% Customer support and services net revenue in 2015 remained flat compared to 2014. Growth in calibration services and re-marketing sales of used equipment was offset by declines in the equipment repair business due to a reduction in extended warranty revenue as a result of extension of the standard warranty term from one to three years, as discussed previously under "Backlog." Customer support and services net revenue in 2014 increased 1 percent compared to 2013. Growth in calibration services and remarketing sales of used equipment was partially offset by declines in the equipment repair business due to a reduction in extended warranty revenue as a result of extension of the standard warranty term from one to three years. 33 Table of Contents Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the customer support and services business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2015 versus 2014 , and 2014 versus 2013 . Years Ended October 31, 2015 over 2014 % Change 2014 over 2013 % Change 2015 2014 2013 Total gross margin 42.9 % 46.3 % 48.4 % (3) ppts (2) ppts Operating margin 17.9 % 23.1 % 24.9 % (5) ppts (2) ppts in millions Research and development $ 9 $ 9 $ 9 % % Selling, general and administrative $ 94 $ 83 $ 83 12% % Other operating expense (income), net $ (3 ) $ $ % % Income from operations $ 72 $ 93 $ 99 (22)% (6)% Gross margins in 2015 decreased 3 percentage points compared to 2014 primarily due to an increase in people related costs, higher infrastructure-related costs and an unfavorable service mix. Gross margins in 2014 decreased 2 percentage points compared to 2013. Increased costs for extended warranty contracts and the service mix change with increased calibrations were the primary reasons for the lower gross margin. Research and development expenses for customer support and services represent the segments share of centralized investment. Research and development expenses were flat in both 2015 and 2014 as compared to respective prior year. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased 12 percent in 2015 compared to 2014 due to increases in infrastructure-related costs and higher field selling costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses were flat in 2014 compared to 2013. Operating margins decreased by 5 percentage points in 2015 compared to 2014 driven by flat revenues, higher infrastructure-related costs and field selling costs. Operating margins decreased by 2 percentage points in 2014 compared to 2013. Revenue growth was more than offset by the reductions in gross margins. Income from Operations Income from operations in 2015 decreased by $21 million, or 22 percent on a revenue increase of $1 million. Income from operations in 2014 increased by $6 million or 6 percent on a revenue increase of $5 million. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of October 31, 2015 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $483 million as compared to $810 million as of October 31, 2014. As of October 31, 2015, approximately $338 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Much of the non-U.S. cash will be needed for non-U.S. growth and expansion. However, some non-U.S. cash could be repatriated to the U.S. Under current law, such repatriation would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. We continue to be in discussions with Agilent regarding the allocation of certain deferred tax liability balances related to foreign unremitted earnings in accordance with the separation agreements. Excess foreign tax credits associated with unremitted earnings are not recorded as an asset as they do not represent a separate deferred asset until earnings are remitted. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. All significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cashpool for working capital needs, in addition to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. On August 13, 2015, we acquired all share capital of Anite for a cash price of approximately $558 million, net of $43 million of cash acquired. As a result of the acquisition, Anite has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Keysight. Keysight funded the acquisition using existing cash. The acquisition has been accounted for in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance and the results of Anite are included in Keysight's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. 34 Table of Contents We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $376 million in 2015 as compared to $563 million provided in 2014 and $566 million provided in 2013. As compared to 2014, the $187 million decrease in operating cash flow was primarily due to cash flows associated with separation from Agilent and becoming an independent company, including payments to Agilent of $28 million in 2015 as compared to payments from Agilent of $23 million in 2014, interest payments of $46 million in 2015 as compared to zero in 2014, pension contributions of $48 million as compared to zero in 2014 and income tax payments of $40 million in 2015 as compared to $4 million in 2014 . Key working capital accounts (accounts receivable, accounts payable and inventory) had net cash outflows of $27 million in 2015, $24 million in 2014 and $33 million in 2013. We did not contribute to our U.S. Defined Benefit Plans in 2015. Agilent contributed $15 million on our behalf to the U.S. multi-employer plans on our behalf in each of 2014 and 2013. We contributed $48 million to the non-U.S. Defined Benefit Plans in 2015 and Agilent contributed $41 million and $45 million on our behalf to the non-U.S. multi-employer plans in 2014 and 2013, respectively. There were no contributions to the U.S. Post-Retirement Benefit Plan or the U.S. multi-employer post-retirement health care plan in 2015, 2014 and 2013. At the Capitalization, the assets and liabilities of the multi-employer plans that were allocable to Keysight employees were transferred to Keysight plans; therefore, the plans were no longer considered multi-employer plans. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in 2015 was $671 million as compared to cash used of $82 million in 2014 and $85 million in 2013. Purchases of property, plant and equipment were $92 million in 2015, $70 million in 2014 and $69 million in 2013. Cash used for acquisitions of businesses and intangible assets, net of cash acquired, was $574 million in 2015, $11 million in 2014 and $1 million in 2013. In 2015, we invested $7 million in preferred stock of a privately held radio frequency microstructure company. We are accounting for this investment using the cost method. We purchased investments of $15 million in 2013 as compared to zero in 2014. Proceeds from the sale of investment securities were $1 million in 2015 and zero in each of the fiscal years 2014 and 2013. Net Cash Provided by/Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in 2015 was $19 million compared to $335 million provided in 2014 and $481 million used in 2013. Financing activities in the twelve months ended October 31, 2015 reflects $26 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock option plans and $49 million of cash returned to Agilent in accordance with the separation and distribution agreement. We issued senior notes of $1.1 billion and made a repayment of capital of $940 million to Agilent in the year ended October 31, 2014. Credit Facility On September 15, 2014, we entered into a five-year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on November 1, 2019. On July 21, 2015, we entered into an Accession Agreement, increasing the credit facility from $300 million to $450 million. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of October 31, 2015, the company had no borrowings outstanding under the facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the credit facility during the year ended October 31, 2015. As a result of the Anite acquisition, we have an overdraft facility of $39 million (25 million) that will expire on July 31, 2016. As of October 31, 2015, the company had no borrowings outstanding under the facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the credit facility from the date of acquisition to October 31, 2015. 35 Table of Contents Short-term debt On July 10, 2014, our wholly owned subsidiary in India entered into a short-term loan agreement with a financial institution, which provided up to $50 million of unsecured borrowings. On July 25, 2014, we borrowed $35 million against the loan agreement at an interest rate of 9.95 percent per annum. The loan was repaid in fiscal 2014 and as of October 31, 2014, no balance was outstanding. Long-term debt In October 2014, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in senior notes ("2019 senior notes"). The 2019 senior notes were issued at 99.902% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on October 30, 2019, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.30% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 30 and October 30 of each year. In October 2014, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes ("2024 senior notes"). The 2024 senior notes were issued at 99.966% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on October 30, 2024, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.55% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 30 and October 30 of each year. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other We have contractual commitments for non-cancellable operating leases. See Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies," to our combined and consolidated financial statements for further information on our non-cancellable operating leases. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization. Contractual Commitments Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors. The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations at October 31, 2015 (in millions). The amounts presented in the table do not reflect $21 million of liabilities for uncertain tax positions as of October 31, 2015. We are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement. Total Less than one year One to three years Three to five years More than five years Long-term debt obligations $ 1,100 $ $ $ 500 $ 600 Interest payments on long-term debt 312 44 88 71 109 Operating leases 152 32 54 31 35 Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers 260 259 1 Retirement plans 45 45 Other purchase commitments 51 51 Total $ 1,920 $ 431 $ 143 $ 602 $ 744 Interest on senior notes. We have contractual obligations for interest payments on our senior notes. Interest rates and payment dates are detailed above under "Long-term debt." Operating leases. Commitments under operating leases relate primarily to leasehold property, See Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies." Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. Our agreements with these suppliers usually provide us with the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Purchase orders outstanding with delivery dates within 30 days are typically non-cancellable. Approximately 88 percent 36 Table of Contents of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, non-cancellable, and unconditional commitments. We expect to fulfill most of our purchase commitments for inventory within one year. In addition to the commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers referenced above, we record a liability for firm, non-cancellable and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our policy relating to excess inventory. As of October 31, 2015, the liability for our excess firm, non-cancellable and unconditional purchase commitments was $8 million, compared to $5 million as of October 31, 2014 and 2013. These amounts are included in other accrued liabilities in our combined and consolidated balance sheet. Retirement Plans. Commitments under the retirement plans relate to expected contributions to be made to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans and to our post-retirement medical plans for the next year only. Contributions beyond the next year are impractical to estimate. We also have benefit payments due under our defined benefit retirement plans and post-retirement benefit plan that are not required to be funded in advance, but are paid in the same period that benefits are provided. See