Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Unaudited) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements which include but are not limited to predictions, future guidance, projections, beliefs, and expectations about the companys trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of government regulations on our ability to conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, and our transition to lower-cost regions. The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Keysights results to differ materially from managements current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the impact of global economic conditions such as inflation or potential recession, slowing demand for products or services, volatility in financial markets, reduced access to credit, increased interest rates, the existence of political or economic instability, impacts of geopolitical tension and conflict in regions outside of the U.S., the impacts of increased trade tension and tightening of export control regulations, the impact of compliance with the August 3, 2021 Consent Agreement with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Department of State, the impact of new and ongoing litigation, impacts related to endemic and pandemic conditions, impacts related to net zero emissions commitments, and the impact of volatile weather caused by environmental conditions such as climate change. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Overview and Executive Summary Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a global innovator in the computing, communications and electronics market, committed to advancing our customers business success by helping them solve critical challenges in the development and commercialization of their products and services. Our mission, "accelerating innovation to connect and secure the world," speaks to the value we provide our customers in a world of ever-increasing technological complexity. We deliver this value through a broad range of design and test solutions 24 Table of Contents that address the critical challenges our customers face in bringing their innovations to market faster. We invest in research and development ("R&D") to align our business with available markets and position the company for growth. Our R&D efforts focus on the development of new software and hardware products, as well as improvements to existing products, and customer solutions aligned to the industries that we serve. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuous flow of innovative, high-quality software, customer solutions, products and services. We remain committed to investment in R&D and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities to capture future growth. Acquisition of ESI Group SA In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of ESI Group SA (" ESI Group") for $935 million, net of cash acquired, using existing cash. For the three months ended January 31, 2024, our acquisition of ESI Group resulted in incremental revenue of $68 million. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations, we have qualitatively disclosed the impact of ESI Group acquisition. See Note 2, "Acquisitions," for additional information. Macroeconomic headwinds and challenging geopolitical environment Our global operations continue to be affected by many external headwinds, including inflationary pressures, rising interest rates, currency movements, increased geopolitical tensions and trade restrictions. These headwinds are also negatively impacting our customers' operations and financial performance. As a result, demand has declined year-over-year as our customers are exercising caution and adapting to the post-pandemic industry dynamics. As we work through these near-term headwinds, we are exercising our financial playbook and the structural flexibility in our operating model to continue delivering strong financial results. Keysights technology leadership, differentiated first-to-market solutions portfolio, durable and resilient business model driven by the strength of the Keysight Leadership Model, and continued customer engagement in new technology innovation spanning diverse applications across global markets provides us confidence in our ability to weather these macro and industry dynamics and deliver consistent long-term value to our customers. For discussion of risks related to potential impacts of macroeconomic headwinds and geopolitical challenges on our operations, business results and financial condition, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2024 were $1,220 million, a decrease of 6 percent compared to the same period last year. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 6 percentage points on the year-over-year order change. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the year-over-year order change. For the three months ended January 31, 2024, orders declined double-digits in Asia Pacific, partially offset by an increase in Europe and the Americas. Revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was $1,259 million, a decrease of 9 percent compared to the same period last year. Revenue associated with acquisitions had a favorable impact of 5 percentage points on the year-over-year revenue change. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the year-over-year revenue change. Revenue for the Communications Solutions Group and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group declined year-over-year and represented 67 percent and 33 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2024. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was $172 million, compared to $260 million for the same period last year. The decrease in net income for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was primarily driven by lower revenue, higher restructuring costs, amortization of acquisition-related balances, and incremental operating expenses due to the ESI Group acquisition, partially offset by incremental gross margin impact due to the ESI Group acquisition, favorable mix and lower variable people-related costs. Outlook Our first-to-market solutions strategy enables customers to develop new technologies and accelerate innovation and provides a platform for Keysight's long-term growth. Our customers are expected to continue to make R&D investments in certain next-generation technologies, including 5G, early 6G, high-speed data centers, satellite networks and Artificial Intelligence-Machine Learning ("AI-ML") network modeling, new automotive mobility technologies, industrial internet of things ("IoT"), and defense modernization. We continue to engage actively with our customers, and closely monitor the current macroeconomic environment, including trade, tariffs, monetary and fiscal policies and geopolitical tensions. Despite the near-term challenges, we remain confident in the long-term secular growth trends of our markets and our ability to outperform in a variety of market conditions. 25 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There were no material changes during the three months ended January 31, 2024 to the critical accounting estimates described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2023. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our condensed consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge short-term currency movements based on a rolling period of up to twelve months. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations - Three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 A summary of our results is as follows: Three Months Ended Year-over-Year January 31, Change 2024 2023 Three Months in millions, except margin data Revenue $ 1,259 $ 1,381 (9)% Gross margin 64.6 % 63.9 % 1 ppt Research and development $ 232 $ 227 2% Percentage of revenue 18 % 16 % 2 ppts Selling, general and administrative $ 362 $ 338 7% Percentage of revenue 29 % 24 % 4 ppts Other operating expense (income), net $ (2) $ (4) (56)% Income from operations $ 221 $ 322 (31)% Operating margin 17.6 % 23.3 % (6) ppts Interest income $ 23 $ 19 24% Interest expense $ (20) $ (19) 1% Other income (expense), net $ 5 $ 9 (51)% Income before taxes $ 229 $ 331 (31)% Provision for income taxes $ 57 $ 71 (19)% Net income $ 172 $ 260 (34)% Revenue Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Returns are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. 26 Table of Contents The following table provides the percent change in revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2024 by geographic region and the impact of foreign currency movements as compared to the same period last year. Year-over-Year Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2024 Geographic Region Actual Currency Impact Favorable (Unfavorable) Americas (8)% Europe (1)% 2 ppts Asia Pacific (13)% (1) ppt Total revenue (9)% Gross Margin, Operating Margin and Income Before Taxes Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2024 increased 1 percentage point compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by incremental gross margin impact due to the ESI Group acquisition, favorable mix and lower variable people-related costs, partially offset by higher restructuring costs and amortization of acquisition-related balances. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 increased 2 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by incremental costs due to the ESI Group acquisition, and higher restructuring costs, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. As a percentage of revenue, R&D expense was 18 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2024. We continue to invest in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 increased 7 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by incremental costs due to the ESI Group acquisition, higher restructuring costs and amortization of acquisition-related balances, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs and infrastructure costs. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was income of $2 million compared to income of $4 million for the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased 6 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales, partially offset by gross margin gains. Interest income for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was $23 million compared to $19 million for the same period last year and primarily relates to interest earned on our cash balances. Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was $20 million as compared to $19 million for the same period last year and primarily relates to interest on our senior notes. Other income (expense), net for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was income of $5 million compared to income of $9 million for the same period last year and primarily includes income related to our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans, the change in fair value of our equity and other investments, currency impacts, and income attributable to non-controlling interests. As of January 31, 2024, our headcount was approximately 15,500 compared to approximately 15,000 at January 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of ESI Group partially offset by reductions due to the impact of our cost reduction measures. Income Taxes The following table provides income tax details: Three Months Ended January 31, 2024 2023 in millions, except percentages Income before taxes $ 229 $ 331 Provision for income taxes $ 57 $ 71 Effective tax rate 24.5 % 21.5 % The tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was lower compared to the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in income before taxes, partially offset by an increase in discrete tax expense. The decrease in income before 27 Table of Contents taxes in jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate caused an increase in the overall effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to the same period last year. The income tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 included a net discrete expense of $2 million. The income tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2023 included a net discrete benefit of $1 million. The increase in discrete tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was primarily due to a decrease in tax deductions related to stock compensation. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore and Malaysia, that will expire at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. The Singapore tax incentive will expire July 31, 2024, and the Malaysia tax incentive will expire October 31, 2025. The expiration of the Singapore tax incentive in the current year has been reflected in the annual tax forecast. The impact of the tax incentives decreased the income tax provision by $13 million and $25 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The decrease in the tax benefit for the three months ended January 31, 2024 is primarily due to a decrease in earnings taxed at incentive rates and the impact of the Singapore tax incentive expiration on the forecasted annual effective tax rate. The open tax years for the U.S. federal income tax return and most state income tax returns are from November 1, 2019 through the current tax year. For the majority of our non-U.S. entities, the open tax years are from November 1, 2018 through the current tax year. For certain non-U.S. entities, the tax years remain open, at most, back to the year 2008. Thecompany is being audited in Malaysia for fiscal year 2008. This tax year pre-dates our separation from Agilent. However, pursuant to the agreement between Agilent and Keysight pertaining to tax matters, as finalized at the time of separation, for certain entities, including Malaysia, any historical tax liability is the responsibility of Keysight. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, Keysight paid income taxes and penalties of $68 million on gains related to intellectual property rights. The company believes there are strong technical defenses to the current assessment; the statute of limitations for the fiscal year 2008 in Malaysia was closed, and the income in question is exempt from tax in Malaysia. The company is disputing this assessment and pursuing all available recourses to resolve this issue favorably for the company. Our appeals to both the Special Commissioners of Income Tax and the High Court in Malaysia have been unsuccessful. The decision from the Court of Appeal, which was previously expected to be rendered in February 2024, is now expected to be rendered in May 2024. There are limited further legal options available after the decision is returned from the Court of Appeal. At this time, management does not believe that the outcome of any future or currently ongoing examination will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have an adequate provision for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Given the numerous tax years and matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, the ultimate resolution of current and future tax examinations could be inconsistent with managements current expectations. If that were to occur, it could have an impact on our effective tax rate in the period in which such examinations are resolved. We do not recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ("GILTI") tax expense in future years. We recognize the tax expense related to GILTI in each year in which the tax is incurred. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various other countries globally. Changes in tax law, tax rates, or in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates may affect deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded and our future effective tax rate. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 that included changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a fifteen percent minimum tax based on "adjusted financial statement income," which is effective for Keysight in the current year. Based on the current year forecast, the company does not expect to incur any additional U.S. tax liability from the application of the new minimum tax rules. In addition, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development reached agreement among various countries to implement a minimum fifteen percent tax rate on certain multinational enterprises, commonly referred to as Pillar Two. Many countries continue to announce changes in their tax laws and regulations based on the Pillar Two proposals. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of these proposed and enacted legislative changes as new guidance becomes available. Some of these legislative changes could result in double taxation of our non-U.S. earnings, a reduction in the tax benefit received from our tax incentives, or other impacts to our effective tax rate and tax liabilities. Given the numerous proposed tax law changes and the uncertainty regarding such legislative changes, the impact of Pillar Two cannot be determined at this time. 28 Table of Contents Segment Overview We have two reportable operating segments, the Communications Solutions Group and the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group. The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related balances, acquisition and integration costs, restructuring costs, interest income, interest expense and other items. A significant portion of the segments' expenses arise from allocated corporate charges, as well as expenses related to our centralized sales force, and service, marketing and technology functions that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. Corporate charges include legal, accounting, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Segment allocations are determined on a basis that we consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to, or benefits received by, the segments. Newly acquired businesses are not allocated these charges until integrated into our shared services and corporate infrastructure. Communications Solutions Group The Communications Solutions Group ("CSG") serves customers spanning the global commercial communications and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The groups solutions consist of electronic design and test software, instrumentation, systems, and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of communication systems in wireless, wireline, enterprise, and aerospace, defense and government end markets. In addition, the group provides automated software test solutions that include AI-ML to automatically identify, build, and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Revenue Three Months Ended Year- over-Year January 31, Change 2024 2023 Three Months in millions Total revenue $ 839 $ 939 (11)% The Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased 11 percent compared to the same period last year. Revenues associated with acquisitions had a favorable impact of 1 percentage point on the year-over-year revenue change. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the year-over-year revenue change. Revenue declined across all regions and in both the commercial communications and the aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2024 declined relative to a strong compare last year, which was driven by robust backlog conversion. Our R&D engagements with customers remained strong and we continue to see investments to support development of new communications technologies (e.g., 5G/6G, Open RAN, commercial satellite non-terrestrial networks, quantum), artificial intelligence ("AI")-driven data center expansion, 400G/800G/terabit, high speed networking and major defense and government programs worldwide. The commercial communications end market revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2024, decreased 14 percent year-over-year and represented 65 percent of total Communications Solutions Group revenue. For the three months ended January 31, 2024, revenue declined across all regions. The decline was driven by post-pandemic supply/demand dynamics as customers remain cautious in their spending across the communications ecosystem. However, we continue to see investments in high-speed networks due to increasing need for AI capabilities across the entire data center ecosystem, which is driving demand for our 400G/800G solutions, both in R&D and manufacturing. The aerospace, defense, and government end market revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2024, decreased 5 percent year-over-year and represented 35 percent of total Communications Solutions Group revenue. For the three months ended January 31, 2024, revenue declined double-digits in Asia Pacific, partially offset by an increase in Europe, and was flat in the Americas. We continue to see investments in electromagnetic spectrum operations, cybersecurity, and space and satellite solutions, as well as next-generation commercial technologies like 5G and early 6G research applications. 29 Table of Contents Gross Margin and Operating Margin Three Months Ended Year- over-Year January 31, Change 2024 2023 Three Months in millions, except margin data Gross margin 68.4 % 67.5 % 1 ppt Research and development $ 152 $ 156 (3)% Selling, general and administrative $ 197 $ 210 (6)% Other operating expense (income), net $ (2) $ (3) (36)% Income from operations $ 226 $ 269 (16)% Operating margin 27.0 % 28.7 % (2) ppts Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2024 increased 1 percentage point compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by favorable mix and lower variable people-related costs. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased 3 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower variable people-related costs, partially offset by incremental costs due to the ESI Group acquisition. We continue to invest in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased 6 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower infrastructure costs and variable people-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was income of 2 million and $3 million, respectively. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased 2 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales, partially offset by gross margin gains. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group ("EISG") serves customers across a diverse set of end markets focused on automotive and energy, semiconductor solutions, and general electronics. The group's solutions consist of electronic design, test and simulation software, instrumentation, systems, and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of electronic equipment. In addition, the group provides automated software test solutions that include AI-ML to automatically identify, build, and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Our recent acquisition of ESI Group expands our application layer portfolio with simulation capabilities in automotive and general electronics sectors. Revenue Three Months Ended Year-over-Year January 31, Change 2024 2023 Three Months in millions Total revenue $ 420 $ 442 (5)% The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased 5 percent compared to the same period last year. Revenues associated with acquisitions had a favorable impact of 14 percentage points on the year-over-year revenue change. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the year-over-year revenue change. For the three months ended January 31, 2024, revenue declined in Asia Pacific and the Americas, partially offset by an increase in Europe. The declines in general electronics measurement and semiconductor measurement solutions were partially offset by growth in automotive and energy driven by the acquisition of ESI Group. The decline in revenue reflects the normalization in demand as customer spending remained cautious due to continued macroeconomic headwinds. Despite delays in their near-term spending, customer engagement remains high as they continue to invest in key long-term strategic initiatives, such as next-generation electric vehicle ("EV") and autonomous vehicle ("AV"), digital health, industrial IoT, and advanced semiconductor technologies. 30 Table of Contents Gross Margin and Operating Margin Three Months Ended Year-over-Year January 31, Change 2024 2023 Three Months in millions, except margin data Gross margin 64.9 % 60.5 % 4 ppts Research and development $ 62 $ 54 13% Selling, general and administrative $ 82 $ 74 11% Other operating expense (income), net $ $ (1) Income from operations $ 129 $ 140 (8)% Operating margin 30.6 % 31.8 % (1) ppt Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2024 increased 4 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by incremental gross margin impact due to ESI Group acquisition, favorable mix and lower variable people-related costs. R&D expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 increased 13 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by incremental costs due to the ESI Group acquisition, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. We continue to invest in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2024 increased 11 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by incremental costs due to the ESI Group acquisition, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was zero and income of $1 million, respectively. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased 1 percentage point compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales, partially offset by gross margin gains. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity is affected by many factors, including normal ongoing operations of our business and fluctuations due to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Under certain circumstances, U.S. and local government regulations may limit our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs. Overview of Cash Flows Our key cash flow activities were as follows: Three Months Ended January 31, 2024 2023 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 328 $ 366 Net cash used in investing activities $ (511) $ (60) Net cash used in financing activities $ (548) $ (139) Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to working capital needs, the timing of payments for income taxes, variable pay, and pension funding and other items that impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $38 million during the three months ended January 31, 2024 compared to the same period last year. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased $88 million compared to the same period last year. Non-cash adjustments to net income were higher by $20 million primarily due to a $14 million increase in amortization, a $7 million increase in deferred tax expense, a $2 million decrease in unrealized gains on equity and other investments, and a $3 million increase in other non-cash adjustments, partially offset by a $6 million decrease in share-based compensation. 31 Table of Contents The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable provided net cash of $83 million during the first three months of fiscal 2024 compared to net cash used of $57 million in the same period last year, primarily due to higher collections relative to revenue and lower payments. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable depends upon the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. Other movements in assets and liabilities used net cash of $53 million during the first three months of fiscal 2024 compared to net cash provided of $57 million in the same period last year, primarily driven by payments on settlement of foreign exchange forward contracts associated with the ESI Group acquisition, lower deferred revenue, lower income and other tax accruals, net of payments, and changes in other assets and liabilities. Investing Activities Our investing activities primarily include investments in property, plant and equipment and acquisitions of businesses to support our strategy and growth. Net cash used in investing activities increased $451 million during the three months ended January 31, 2024 compared to the same period last year. For the three months ended January 31, 2024 we used $477 million, net of $35 million cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of the controlling block of ESI Group shares. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $47 million and $60 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For the three months ended January 31, 2024 we received $11 million proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments. Financing Activities Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, treasury stock repurchases, and transactions with non-controlling interests in partially-owned consolidated subsidiaries. Net cash used in financing activities increased $409 million during the three months ended January 31, 2024 compared to the same period last year, primarily due to $458 million used for the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in ESI Group, partially offset by $32 million lower treasury stock repurchases and $18 million lower tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards. Treasury Stock Repurchases On March 6, 2023, our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1,500 million of the companys common stock, replacing the previously approved November 2021 program. The stock repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at the companys discretion and does not have an expiration date. See "Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" under Part II Item 2 for additional information. Debt Revolving Credit Facility On July 30, 2021, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Facility), which provided a $750 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on July 30, 2026 with an annual interest rate of LIBOR + 1 percent along with a facility fee of 0.125 percent per annum. On February 17, 2023, we entered into the first amendment to the Revolving Credit Facility to change the annual interest rate from LIBOR + 1 percent to SOFR + 1.1 percent. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility permits the company, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions to request to increase the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility by up to $250 million in the aggregate. We may use amounts borrowed under the Revolving Credit Facility for general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2024 and October 31, 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility and senior notes during the three months ended January 31, 2024. As part of the ESI Group acquisition, we assumed a 10 million euros revolving credit facility that expires in April 2025. As of January 31, 2024, we had no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Senior Notes There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and payment terms of the senior notes during the three months ended January 31, 2024 compared to the senior notes described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2023. The total aggregate principal amount of the unsecured senior notes was $1,800 million as of January 31, 2024 and October 31, 2023. We were in compliance with the covenants of our senior notes during the three months ended January 31, 2024. 32 Table of Contents ESI Group debt assumed As part of the ESI Group acquisition, we assumed debt of $24 million, including $10 million payable within one year. The debt includes a syndicated loan of $11 million payable through yearly installments until April 2025 with an annual interest rate of EURIBOR + 2 to 2.5 percent. We also assumed various fixed interest rate state-guaranteed loans and other bank borrowings of $13 million. During the three months ended January 31, 2024, we repaid $1 million of the state-guaranteed loans. See Note 10, "Debt" for additional information. Cash and cash requirements Cash January 31, 2024 October 31, 2023 (in millions) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 1,765 $ 2,488 U.S. $ 637 $ 362 Non U.S. $ 1,128 $ 2,126 Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of investments in institutional money market funds, short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and money market fund asset managers with whom we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs. In addition, a few locations that are unable to access internal funding have access to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. Cash requirements We have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. We generally intend to use available cash and funds generated from our operations to meet these cash requirements. In the event that additional liquidity is required, we may also borrow under our revolving credit facility. There were no other material changes to the cash requirements from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2023. Cash requirements related to tax liabilities include uncertain tax positions, which increased by $6 million from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2023 due to current year increases in reserves. Additionally, with regard to the U.S. transition tax liability, $13 million moved from amounts due later than one year to amounts due within one year. We believe that we have an adequate provision for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Given the numerous tax years and matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, the ultimate resolution of current and future tax examinations could be inconsistent with managements current expectations. For the remainder of fiscal 2024, we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plan and U.S. post-retirement benefit plan, and expect to contribute $8 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans. The amounts we contribute depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plans funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. See Note 11, "Retirement Plans and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans." Additionally, we expect capital spending to be approximately $150 million in 2024, primarily for investments in capacity expansion and technology investments. As of January 31, 2024, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and our ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future both globally and domestically.