ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence of political or economic instability, and our and the combined group's estimated or anticipated future results of operations, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and 30 Table of Contents our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Overview and Executive Summary Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a technology company providing electronic design and test solutions that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment, validation, optimization and secure operation of electronics systems to communications, networking and electronics industries. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle, including start-up assistance, instrument productivity, application services and instrument calibration and repair. We invest in research and development ("R&D") to align our business with available markets and position the company for growth. Our R&D efforts focus on improvements to existing software and hardware products and development to support new software and hardware product introductions and complete customer solutions aligned to our industry. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuous flow of innovative, high-quality software, customer solutions, products and services. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, in recognition of Keysights customer solutions-oriented go-to-market strategy, and to fully reflect our services delivery within the markets served and further enable services growth, we completed an organizational change to align our services business with our customers and end markets. With this change, services that were previously reported as the Services Solutions Group are now reported as part of the Communications Solutions Group and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group. As a result, Keysight now has three segments: Communications Solutions Group, Electronic Industrial Solutions Group and Ixia Solutions Group. The new organizational structure continues to include centralized enterprise functions that provide support across the groups. Prior period segment results have been revised to conform to the new organizational structure. Effective November 1, 2018, Keysight adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , using the modified retrospective transition method. Prior period comparative information has not been adjusted and is reported under the accounting standards in effect for that period. For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the impact of adopting the new revenue standard increased our net sales by approximately $14 million, primarily driven by the strength of our subscription software sales. While the impact of the new standard is largely driven by our sales mix, which can vary from period to period, we do not expect the adoption of the new revenue standard to have a material impact on our net revenue during the remainder of fiscal 2019. See Note 2, "New Accounting Pronouncements," to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information. Three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2019 were $1,016 million, an increase of 5 percent when compared to the same period last year and an increase of 7 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations and divestitures. Currency fluctuations and divestitures each contributed 1 percentage point unfavorable impact to the order growth for the three months ended January 31, 2019. Net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was $1,006 million, an increase of 20 percent when compared to the same period last year and an increase of 22 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations and divestitures. Currency fluctuations and divestitures each contributed 1 percentage point unfavorable impact to the revenue growth for the three months ended January 31, 2019. The Communications Solutions Group led the overall revenue growth with strong growth in the commercial communications market, complemented by steady growth in the Ixia Solutions Group and the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group. Revenue from the Communications Solutions Group, Electronic Industrial Solutions Group and Ixia Solutions Group represented approximately 62 percent, 26 percent and 12 percent, respectively, of the total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was $114 million compared to $94 million for the corresponding period last year. The increase in net income for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was driven by higher revenue volume and a decline in both amortization of acquisition-related balances and acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by a favorable income tax benefit in the prior period from the new U.S. tax legislation, an increase in variable people-related costs and higher research and development investments in leading-edge technologies and key growth opportunities in our end markets. Impact of Northern California Wildfires During the week of October 8, 2017, wildfires in northern California adversely impacted the Keysight corporate headquarters site in Santa Rosa, CA. Our headquarters was under mandatory evacuation for more than three weeks, and while direct damage 31 Table of Contents to our core facilities was limited, our buildings did experience some smoke and other fire-related impacts. Cleaning and restoration efforts are largely complete, and we have fully re-occupied the site. Keysight is insured for the damage caused by the fire. For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we recognized costs of zero and $7 million, net of estimated insurance recoveries of zero and $31 million, respectively. Expenses were primarily for cleaning and restoration activities, write-off of damaged fixed assets and other direct costs related to recovery from this event. For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we received insurance proceeds of $22 million and $10 million, respectively, for covered expenses incurred. Combined with $68 million received in fiscal 2018, we have received $90 million to date, which has substantially covered our total fire-related expenses in excess of our $10 million self-insured amounts. In addition, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we made investments in property, plant and equipment related to fire recovery of $10 million and $3 million, respectively. Combined with capital expenditures of $27 million in fiscal 2018, we made investments in property, plant and equipment related to fire recovery of $37 million to date that are expected to be covered by insurance. We currently estimate additional insurance proceeds of $30 million to $40 million in fiscal 2019. In certain cases, our insurance coverage exceeds the amount of these covered losses, but no gain contingencies have been recognized as our ability to realize those gains remains uncertain for financial reporting purposes. There may be a difference in timing of costs incurred and the related insurance reimbursement. Outlook Looking forward, we believe our investments in R&D combined with our completed acquisitions, which have expanded our technology portfolio and the size of our addressable market, position Keysight for growth. We remain focused on delivering value through differentiated and first-to-market solutions targeted at faster growing markets where customers are investing in next-generation digital and electronic technologies. Internally, we are continuously working to improve operational efficiency within all functions. While current macro-economic and geopolitical uncertainties exist related to trade, tariffs, monetary and fiscal policies, we expect continued sales growth. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There were no material changes during the three months ended January 31, 2019 to the critical accounting estimates described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. Changes to our accounting policy for revenue recognition as a result of adopting Accounting Standard Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , are discussed in Note 2, "New Accounting Pronouncements," to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our consolidated statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis of up to a rolling twelve-month period. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. 32 Table of Contents Results from Operations Orders and Net Revenue In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services. Consistent with our strategy, we are seeing an increase in solution sales, which have a longer order-to-revenue conversion cycle; however, the majority of recorded orders will be delivered within six months. Revenue reflects the delivery and acceptance of the products and services as defined on the customer's terms and conditions. Cancellations are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2019 2018 Months Orders $ 1,016 $ 964 5% Net revenue: Products $ 837 $ 684 22% Services and other 169 153 11% Total net revenue $ 1,006 $ 837 20% Orders Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2019 were $1,016 million, an increase of 5 percent when compared to the same period last year and an increase of 7 percent excluding the impact of currency fluctuations and divestitures. Currency fluctuations and divestitures each contributed 1 percentage point unfavorable impact to the order growth for the three months ended January 31, 2019. For the three months ended January 31, 2019, order growth in Asia-Pacific and Europe was partially offset by a decline in the Americas. Net Revenue The following table provides the percent change in net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019 by geographic region including and excluding the impact of currency changes as compared to the same period last year. Year over Year Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2019 Geographic Region Actual Currency adjusted Americas 18 % 18 % Europe 5 % 8 % Asia Pacific 31 % 32 % Total net revenue 20 % 21 % Net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was $1,006 million, an increase of 20 percent when compared to the same period last year, with growth across all regions and operating segments. Currency fluctuations and divestitures each contributed 1 percentage point unfavorable impact to the revenue growth for the three months ended January 31, 2019. Currency had an unfavorable impact of 3 percent and 1 percent on revenue growth in Europe and Asia Pacific respectively. 33 Table of Contents Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2019 2018 Months Total gross margin 57.4% 50.7% 7 ppts Operating margin 12.0% (2.0)% 14 ppts in millions Research and development $ 173 $ 150 16% Selling, general and administrative $ 288 $ 295 (2)% Other operating expense (income), net $ (4 ) $ (3 ) 27% Gross margin increased 7 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2019, compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by revenue volume, favorable mix and a decline in wildfire-related expenses, partially offset by an increase in variable people-related costs. Research and development expense increased 16 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2019 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by increases in variable and other people-related costs, greater investment in leading-edge technologies and key growth opportunities in our end markets and higher infrastructure-related costs. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expense was 17 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2019, as compared to 18 percent for the same period last year. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities in order to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 2 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2019 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by decreases in acquisition and integration costs and favorable foreign currency movements, partially offset by increases in variable and other people-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 was income of $4 million and $3 million, respectively. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 14 percentage points, compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by revenue volume, favorable mix and declines in acquisition and integration costs and wildfire-related expenses, partially offset by increases in variable and other people-related costs. As of January 31, 2019, our headcount was approximately 13,000 as compared to approximately 12,700 at January 31, 2018. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was $20 million compared to $22 million for the comparable period last year and primarily relates to interest on our senior notes. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was income of $15 million compared to $13 million for the comparable period last year and primarily includes interest cost, expected return on assets and amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service credits related to our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans. Beginning in fiscal 2019, other income (expense) also includes the change in fair value of our equity investments. Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 5.2 percent and 515.8 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The income tax expense was $6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and an income tax benefit of $117 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018. The income tax benefit for the three months ended January 31, 2019 included a net discrete benefit of $23 million, primarily related to a change in tax reserves resulting from the change in judgment. The income tax benefit for the three months ended January 31, 2018 included a net discrete benefit of $115 million, primarily due to $117 million of benefit resulting from changes in U.S. tax law. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, that have granted us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The Singapore 34 Table of Contents tax incentive is due for renewal in fiscal 2024. The impact of the tax incentives decreased the income tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2019 by $8 million, resulting in a benefit to net income per share (diluted) of approximately $0.04 for the three months ended January 31, 2019. The open tax years for the IRS and most states are from November 1, 2014 through the current tax year. For the majority of our foreign entities, the open tax years are from August 1, 2014 through the current tax year. For foreign entities, the tax years remain open, at most, back to the year 2008. Given the number of years and numerous matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, we are unable to estimate the range of possible changes to the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits. The company is being audited in Malaysia for the 2008 tax year. Although this tax year pre-dates our spin-off from Agilent, pursuant to the agreement between Agilent and Keysight pertaining to tax matters, as finalized at the time of separation, for certain entities, including Malaysia, any historical tax liability is the responsibility of Keysight. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, Keysight paid income taxes and penalties of $68 million on gains related to intellectual property rights, although we are currently in the process of appealing to the Special Commissioners of Income Tax in Malaysia. The company believes there are numerous defenses to the current assessment; the statute of limitations for the 2008 tax year in Malaysia was closed, and the income in question is exempt from tax in Malaysia. The company is disputing this assessment and pursuing all avenues to resolve this issue favorably for the company. At January 31, 2019, our estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 is an expense of 23.2 percent excluding discrete items. We determine our interim tax provision using an estimated annual effective tax rate methodology except in jurisdictions where we anticipate a full year loss or we have a year-to-date ordinary loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized. In these jurisdictions, tax expense is computed separately. Our estimated annual effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the impact of the U.S. GILTI tax on earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions net of U.S. foreign tax credits, the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower rates, reserves for uncertain tax positions, the U.S. federal research and development tax credit, and the impact of permanent differences. Segment Overview In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we completed an organizational change to align our services business with our customers and end markets. The alignment of services to the Communications Solutions Group and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group is a logical next step in Keysights customer solutions oriented go-to-market strategy by fully reflecting our services delivery within the markets served and further enabling services growth. With this change from four reportable segments to three, services that were previously reported as the Services Solutions Group are now reported as part of the Communications Solutions Group and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group. As a result, Keysight now has three segments: Communications Solutions Group, Electronic Industrial Solutions Group and Ixia Solutions Group. The Communications Solutions Group provides electronic design and test software, instruments, systems and related services spanning the worldwide commercial communications and aerospace, defense and government end markets. The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions and related services across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets. The Ixia Solutions Group provides testing, visibility and security solutions, strengthening applications across physical and virtual networks for enterprises, service providers and network equipment manufacturers. The profitability of each segment is measured after excluding, among other things, charges related to the amortization of acquisition-related balances, the impact of restructuring and related costs, asset impairments, acquisition and integration costs, share-based compensation, separation and related costs, interest income and interest expense. Communications Solutions Group The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications and aerospace, defense and government end markets. The group provides electronic design and test software, instruments, systems and related services used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to our new organizational structure described previously in the Segment Overview. 35 Table of Contents Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2019 2018 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 623 $ 500 25% The Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 25 percent compared to the same period last year, which was impacted by the northern California wildfires. Primarily, the growth was driven by momentum in 5G and data center investments in the commercial communications markets, complemented by stable spending in the aerospace defense and government market. The commercial communications market revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 41 percent compared to the same period last year, with growth across all the regions and was approximately 64 percent of total Communications Solutions Group revenue. The revenue growth was primarily driven by increased 5G R&D demand across the wireless ecosystem and growth in data-center-related next-generation 400 gigabit ethernet and higher digital test. The aerospace, defense and government market revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 3 percent compared to the same period last year with growth in the Americas and Asia-Pacific, partially offset by decline in Europe, and was approximately 36 percent of total Communications Solutions Group revenue. The revenue growth was driven by continued demand in space and satellite applications in the U.S. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Communications Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2019 versus the three months ended January 31, 2018. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2019 2018 Months Total gross margin 61.1 % 57.2 % 4 ppts Operating margin 22.2 % 12.6 % 10 ppts in millions Research and development $ 96 $ 84 15% Selling, general and administrative $ 148 $ 142 5% Other operating expense (income), net $ (2 ) $ (2 ) (8)% Income from operations $ 138 $ 63 120% Gross margin for three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 4 percentage points when compared to the same period last year due to higher revenue volume and favorable mix. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 15 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by an increase in variable people-related costs, greater investment in leading-edge technologies and key growth opportunities in our end markets and higher infrastructure-related costs. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 5 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by increased marketing-related investments. Other operating expense (income) for both the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 was income of $2 million. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased $75 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $123 million when compared to the same period last year. 36 Table of Contents Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 10 percentage points when compared to the same period last year, driven by higher revenue volume, partially offset by higher variable people-related costs and increased marketing-related investments. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions and related services across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets, focusing on high-value applications in the automotive and energy industry and measurement solutions for semiconductor design and manufacturing, consumer electronics, education and general electronics design and manufacturing. The group provides electronic design and test software, instruments, systems and related services used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to our new organizational structure described previously in the Segment Overview. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2019 2018 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 257 $ 229 13% The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 13 percent when compared to the same period last year, led by strong growth for our solutions in the general electronics measurement market and automotive and energy market, complemented by steady growth in the semiconductor measurement market. The revenue growth increased across all geographies. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2019 versus the three months ended January 31, 2018. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2019 2018 Months Total gross margin 58.9 % 56.6 % 2 ppts Operating margin 20.9 % 16.9 % 4 ppts in millions Research and development $ 39 $ 34 16% Selling, general and administrative $ 59 $ 58 3% Other operating expense (income), net $ (1 ) $ (1 ) (7)% Income from operations $ 54 $ 38 39% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 2 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher revenue volume and favorable mix. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 16 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by an increase in people-related costs and greater investment in leading-edge technologies and key growth opportunities in our markets. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities to capture future growth. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 3 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by increased marketing-related investments. Other operating expense (income) was income of $1 million for both the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased $16 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $28 million compared to the same period last year. 37 Table of Contents Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 4 percentage points compared to the same period last year, driven by higher revenue volume and favorable mix, partially offset by increased marketing-related investments. Ixia Solutions Group The Ixia Solutions Group helps customers worldwide, including enterprises, service providers, network equipment manufacturers, and governments, to validate new products before shipping and secure ongoing operation of their networks with better visibility and security. The test, visibility and security products help organizations and their customers strengthen their physical and virtual networks. The groups product solutions consist of high-performance hardware platforms, software applications and services, including warranty and maintenance offerings. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2019 2018 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 129 $ 127 1% The Ixia Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 1 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher revenue from network visibility solutions, while revenue from network test solutions was consistent with the same period last year. Revenue growth in Asia-Pacific was partially offset by declines in Europe and Americas. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Ixia Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2019 versus the three months ended January 31, 2018. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2019 2018 Months Total gross margin 71.3 % 75.5 % (4) ppts Operating margin 9.2 % 14.1 % (5) ppts in millions Research and development $ 32 $ 26 26% Selling, general and administrative $ 48 $ 53 (8)% Income from operations $ 12 $ 18 (35)% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2019 decreased 4 percentage points, compared to the same period last year, primarily due to an increased share of the company's infrastructure-related costs after integration, unfavorable mix and higher variable people-related costs. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased 26 percent compared to the same period last year primarily due to an increase in variable people-related costs and an increased share of the company's infrastructure-related costs after integration. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2019 decreased 8 percent compared to the same period last year primarily due to cost synergies with integration and lower selling costs. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2019 decreased $6 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $2 million when compared to the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2019 decreased 5 percentage points compared to the same period last year, driven by an unfavorable mix, higher variable people-related costs and increased share of the company's infrastructure-related costs after integration, partially offset by cost synergies resulting from integration and lower selling costs. 38 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of January 31, 2019 consisted of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $1,102 million as compared to $917 million as of October 31, 2018. As of January 31, 2019, approximately $979 million of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions, investments in institutional money market funds, and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions in which we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs. In addition, a few locations that are unable to access internal funding have access to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding, variable pay, and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $240 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019, compared to $171 million for the same period in 2018. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2019 increased by $20 million compared to the same period last year. Non-cash adjustments increased $224 million primarily due to a decrease in deferred tax benefits as benefits from new U.S. tax legislation were recognized in the three months ended January 31, 2018. The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable provided net operating cash of $20 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash provided of $93 million in the comparable period last year. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable depends upon the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. The aggregate of employee compensation and benefits, income tax payable, deferred revenue and other assets and liabilities, including the impact of insurance proceeds, provided net operating cash of $24 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash provided of $126 million in the comparable period last year. The difference is primarily due to less cash from income taxes payable as the income tax payable at January 31, 2018 included the establishment of a long-term transition tax liability associated with new U.S. tax legislation, and higher variable compensation payments, partially offset by lower cash outflow for fire-related recovery. For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we received insurance proceeds of $22 million and $10 million, respectively, associated with the northern California wildfires. Also, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, we received insurance proceeds of $26 million for Singapore fire-related expenses. We contributed $8 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to $9 million in the same period last year. We expect to contribute approximately $23 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2019. For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we did not contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans or U.S. post-retirement benefit plan, and we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2019. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $29 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $24 million for the same period last year. For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, investments in property, plant and equipment were $31 million and $24 million, respectively, of which $10 million and $3 million, respectively, related to recovery from the 39 Table of Contents northern California wildfires. In addition, for the three months ended January 31, 2019, we received $2 million from a divestiture closed last year. We anticipate total 2019 capital spending to be approximately $135 million, which is $3 million higher than capital spending in fiscal 2018. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities In the three months ended January 31, 2019, we used $33 million for financing activities, which included $40 million for treasury stock repurchases and $23 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by proceeds of $30 million from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. On March 6, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $350 million of the companys common stock, replacing a previously approved 2016 program authorizing the purchase of up to $200 million of the companys common stock. The stock repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at the companys discretion and does not have an expiration date. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, net cash provided by financing activities was $6 million, which included $24 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, partially offset by payment of $15 million for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards and payment of $3 million for acquisition-related contingent consideration. Short-Term Debt Revolving Credit Facility On February 15, 2017, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Facility) that replaced our existing $450 million unsecured credit facility dated September 15, 2014. The Revolving Credit Facility provides for a $450 million, five-year unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 15, 2022 and bears interest at an annual rate of LIBOR + 1.30%. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility permits us to increase the total commitments under this credit facility by up to $150 million in the aggregate on one or more occasions upon request. We may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. During the three months ended January 31, 2018, we borrowed and repaid $40 million of borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of January 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility during the three months ended January 31, 2019. 2019 Senior Notes There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the senior notes during the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the senior notes described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. Long-Term Debt There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the senior notes during the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the senior notes described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. Other There were no material changes from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, to our contractual commitments (including non-cancellable operating leases) in the first three months of 2019. There were no material changes in our liabilities toward uncertain tax positions from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. We are unable to accurately predict when these will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.