ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence of political or economic instability, impact on the supply chain and slowdown in customer purchasing caused by epidemic and pandemic conditions, and our and the combined group's estimated or anticipated future results of operations, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. 23 Table of Contents Basis of Presentation The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income or cash flows. Our fiscal year-end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, these dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal quarter periods. Overview and Executive Summary Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a technology company that helps enterprises, service providers and governments accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world by providing electronic design and test solutions that are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacture, installation, optimization and secure operation of electronics systems in the communications, networking and electronics industries. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle, including start-up assistance, asset management, up-time services, application services and instrument calibration and repair. We invest in research and development ("R&D") to align our business with available markets and position the company for growth. Our R&D efforts focus on improvements to existing software and hardware products and development to support new software and hardware product introductions and complete customer solutions aligned to the industries we serve. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuous flow of innovative, high-quality software, customer solutions, products and services. We remain committed to investment in research and development and have focused our development efforts on strategic opportunities to capture future growth. To more effectively and efficiently address customer solution needs across the communications ecosystem as the network transforms, in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we completed an organizational change to manage our Ixia Solutions Group within our Communications Solutions Group. This change enables us to create improved go-to-market and product development alignment, as well as accelerate solution synergies in 5G as this new technology is deployed globally. As a result, we now have two reportable operating segments, Communications Solutions Group (CSG) and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group (EISG). Three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019 Total orders for the three months ended January 31, 2020 were $ 1,141 million, an increase of 12 percent when compared to the same period last year and an increase of 11 percent excluding the impact of acquisitions. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the order growth for the three months ended January 31, 2020. For the three months ended January 31, 2020, orders grew across all geographies, with stronger growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific. Net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2020 was $1,095 million , an increase of 9 percent when compared to the same period last year and an increase of 8 percent excluding the impact of acquisitions. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on revenue growth for the three months ended January 31, 2020. The Communications Solutions Group led the overall revenue growth with strong growth in the aerospace, defense and government and commercial communications end-markets, complemented by growth in the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group. Revenue from the Communications Solutions Group and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group represented approximately 75 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2020. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2020 was income of $163 million compared to $114 million for the same period last year. The increase in net income for the three months ended January 31, 2020 was driven primarily by favorable mix and higher revenue volume and an other operating gain due to insurance proceeds received for property, plant and equipment damaged in 2017 northern California wildfires, partially offset by increases in people-related costs. In the first quarter of 2020, we received $37 million of insurance proceeds primarily related to replacement of capital and recovery of expenses related to the 2017 northern California wildfires. These proceeds resulted in an other operating gain of $32 million. No additional insurance proceeds or material expenses related to the 2017 northern California wildfires are expected. Outlook Our strategy of bringing solutions to market that help customers develop new technologies and accelerate innovation provides a platform for long-term growth. We expect to continue to see our customers make R&D investments in certain next-generation technologies. We are still in the early market stages for emerging technologies, such as 5G, next-generation automotive, internet of things ("IoT") and defense modernization and expect technology investments to continue. We continue to closely monitor the current macro environment related to trade, tariffs, monetary and fiscal policies, as well as pandemics or epidemics, such as the recent coronavirus outbreak. We have complied and will continue to comply with recent U.S. Department of Commerce export 24 Table of Contents control regulations regarding China. While short-term uncertainties exist, we remain confident in our strategy and believe we are well-positioned to capture future growth opportunities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There were no material changes during the three months ended January 31, 2020 to the critical accounting estimates described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2019. Changes to our accounting policy for leases as a result of adopting Accounting Standard Update 2016-02, Leases , are discussed in Note 2, "New Accounting Pronouncements," and Note 13, "Leases," to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note 2, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of the hedging has been included in our consolidated statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis of up to a rolling twelve-month in advance. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. Results from Operations Net Revenue Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Cancellations are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2020 2019 Months (in millions) Net revenue: Products $ 902 $ 837 8% Services and other 193 169 14% Total net revenue $ 1,095 $ 1,006 9% The following table provides the percent change in net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2020 by geographic region including and excluding the impact of foreign currency movements as compared to the same period last year. Year over Year Change Three Months Ended January 31, 2020 Geographic Region Actual Currency Adjusted Americas 11 % 11 % Europe 4 % 5 % Asia Pacific 9 % 9 % Total net revenue 9 % 9 % Net revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2020 was $1,095 million , an increase of 9 percent when compared to the same period last year and an increase of 8 percent excluding the impact of acquisitions. Foreign currency movements had an 25 Table of Contents immaterial impact on revenue growth for the three months ended January 31, 2020. Currency had an unfavorable impact of 1 percent on revenue growth in Europe for the three months ended January 31, 2020. Costs and Expenses Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2020 2019 Months Total gross margin 59.8% 57.4 % 2 ppts Operating margin 18.5% 12.0 % 7 ppts in millions Research and development $ 187 $ 173 8% Selling, general and administrative $ 300 $ 288 4% Other operating expense (income), net $ (35 ) $ (4 ) Gross margin increased 2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2020 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by favorable mix, higher revenue volume and lower warranty and other period costs. Research and development expense increased 8 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2020 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by greater investment in key growth opportunities in our end markets, leading-edge technologies and people. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expense was 17 percent for both the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 4 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2020 compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by higher people-related costs, partially offset by a decline in marketing-related expenses. Other operating expense (income), net primarily was income of $35 million and $4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Other operating expense (income), net for the three months ended January 31, 2020, includes an other operating gain of $32 million due to insurance proceeds received for property, plant and equipment damaged in the 2017 northern California wildfires. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased 7 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily due to gross margin gains driven by favorable mix and higher revenue volume, and the other operating gain related to the 2017 northern California wildfires, partially offset by increases in people-related costs. As of January 31, 2020, our headcount was approximately 13,600 compared to approximately 13,000 at January 31, 2019. Interest Income and Expense Interest income for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019 was $6 million and $4 million, respectively, and primarily relates to interest earned on our cash balances. Interest expense for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019 was $19 million and $20 million, respectively, and primarily relates to interest on our senior notes. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net for the three months ended January 31, 2020 was income of $12 million compared to $15 million for the same period last year and primarily includes net income related to our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans (interest cost, expected return on assets and amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service credits) and the change in fair value of our equity investments. Income Taxes The companys effective tax rate was 19.1 percent and 5.2 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The income tax expense was $39 million and $6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The income tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2020 included a net discrete expense of $3 million. The income tax expense for the three months ended January 31, 2019 included a net discrete benefit of $23 million, primarily related to a change in tax reserves resulting from a change in judgment. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, that have granted us tax incentives that require renewal at various times in the future. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income in those jurisdictions. The impact 26 Table of Contents of the tax incentives decreased the income tax provision by $15 million and $8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, resulting in a benefit to net income per share (diluted) of approximately $0.08 and $0.04 for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The majority of our tax incentives are due for renewal between 2024 and 2025. With regard to the incentive in Malaysia, a formal application must be filed during fiscal year 2020 to renew the tax incentive through 2025. Keysight intends to file the application timely and does not anticipate any impediments to the renewal process. The open tax years for the IRS and most states are from November 1, 2015 through the current tax year. For the majority of our foreign entities, the open tax years are from November 1, 2014 through the current tax year. For certain foreign entities, the tax years remain open, at most, back to the year 2008. Given the number of years and numerous matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, we are unable to estimate the range of possible changes to the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits. The company was audited in Malaysia for the 2008 tax year. Although this tax year pre-dates our separation from Agilent, pursuant to the agreement between Agilent and Keysight pertaining to tax matters, as finalized at the time of separation, for certain entities, including Malaysia, any historical tax liability is the responsibility of Keysight. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, Keysight paid income taxes and penalties of $68 million on gains related to intellectual property rights. We are currently in the process of appealing to the Special Commissioners of Income Tax (SCIT) in Malaysia. A decision from SCIT is expected during fiscal year 2020. The company believes there are numerous defenses to the current assessment; the statute of limitations for the 2008 tax year in Malaysia was closed, and the income in question is exempt from tax in Malaysia. The company is pursuing all avenues to resolve this issue favorably for the company. At January 31, 2020, our estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 is an expense of 17.1 percent excluding discrete items. We determine our interim tax provision using an estimated annual effective tax rate methodology except in jurisdictions where we anticipate a full year loss or we have a year-to-date ordinary loss for which no tax benefit can be recognized. In these jurisdictions, tax expense is computed separately. Our estimated annual effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to the beneficial impact of the mix of earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions taxed at lower rates and the U.S. federal research and development tax credit, partially offset by the expense impact of the U.S. GILTI tax on earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions net of U.S. foreign tax credits and other U.S. tax reform deductions and reserves for uncertain tax positions. We do not recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact the GILTI tax expense in future years. We recognize the tax expense related to GILTI in each year in which the tax is incurred. Segment Overview To more effectively and efficiently address customer solution needs across the communications ecosystem as the network transforms, in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we completed an organizational change to manage our Ixia Solutions Group within our Communications Solutions Group. This change enables us to create improved go-to-market and product development alignment, as well as accelerate solution synergies in 5G as this new technology is deployed globally. As a result, we now have two reportable operating segments, Communications Solutions Group (CSG) and Electronic Industrial Solutions Group (EISG). The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related balances, acquisition and integration costs, restructuring and related costs, northern California wildfire-related impacts, interest income and interest expense. Communications Solutions Group The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The groups solutions consist of electronic design and test software, instruments, systems and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of electronic equipment and networks. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to our new organizational structure described previously in the Segment Overview. 27 Table of Contents Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2020 2019 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 818 $ 752 9% The Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased 9 percent compared to the same period last year and grew 8 percent excluding the impact of acquisitions. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on revenue growth. Revenue growth was driven by strength in the aerospace, defense and government and commercial communications end markets. For the three months ended January 31, 2020, revenue growth was driven by solid growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific, while Europe was flat. Revenue from the commercial communications market represented approximately 70 percent of the total Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and increased 8 percent year-over-year. For the three months ended January 31, 2020, revenue growth in Asia Pacific and the Americas was partially offset by a slight decline in Europe. The commercial communications market revenue growth was driven by continued investments in 5G, fueled by the ongoing redesign of every aspect of communications systems, including wireless access, infrastructure, wireline technologies, data center and the cloud. Revenue from the aerospace, defense and government market represented approximately 30 percent of the total Communications Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and increased 10 percent year-over-year. For the three months ended January 31, 2020, revenue grew across all regions, led by stronger growth in the Americas. The aerospace, defense and government market revenue growth was driven by on-going investments in technology modernization. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Communications Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2020 versus the three months ended January 31, 2019. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2020 2019 Months Total gross margin 65.7 % 62.8 % 3 ppts Operating margin 24.6 % 19.9 % 5 ppts in millions Research and development $ 139 $ 128 8% Selling, general and administrative $ 201 $ 197 2% Other operating expense (income), net $ (3 ) $ (2 ) 16% Income from operations $ 201 $ 150 34% Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased 3 percentage points compared to the same period last year, driven by favorable mix, higher revenue volume and lower warranty and other period costs. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased 8 percent compared to the same period last year, driven by greater investment in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased 2 percent compared to the same period last year, driven by incremental costs of an acquired business. Other operating expense (income), net was income of $3 million and $2 million for the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased $51 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $66 million compared to the same period last year. 28 Table of Contents Operating margin increased 5 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2020 compared to the same period last year, driven by gross margin gains and lower selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenue. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group provides test and measurement solutions and related services across a broad set of electronic industrial end markets, focusing on high-value applications in the automotive and energy industry and measurement solutions for consumer electronics, education, general electronics design and manufacturing, and semiconductor design and manufacturing.The group provides electronic design and test software, instruments and systems and related services used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment. Net Revenue Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2020 2019 Months (in millions) Net revenue $ 277 $ 257 8% The Electronic Industrial Solutions Group revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased 8 percent compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on revenue growth. The revenue growth was primarily driven by stronger growth in semiconductor measurement solutions and automotive and energy. Revenue grew across all regions for the three months ended January 31, 2020 compared to the same period last year. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group margins, expenses and income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2020 versus the three months ended January 31, 2019. Three Months Ended Year over Year Change January 31, Three 2020 2019 Months Total gross margin 61.1 % 58.9 % 2 ppts Operating margin 26.3 % 20.9 % 5 ppts in millions Research and development $ 41 $ 39 3% Selling, general and administrative $ 57 $ 59 (4)% Other operating expense (income), net $ (1 ) $ (1 ) 16% Income from operations $ 73 $ 54 36% Gross margin increased 2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2020 compared to the same period last year, driven by favorable mix, higher revenue volume and lower warranty and other period costs. Research and development expense for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased 3 percent compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by greater investment in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 4 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2020 compared to the same period last year, primarily due to lower infrastructure-related costs and selling costs. Other operating expense (income) for both the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019 was income of $1 million. Income from Operations Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased $19 million on a corresponding revenue increase of $20 million compared to the same period last year. Operating margin for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased 5 percentage points compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by gross margin improvement and lower operating expenses as a percent of revenue. 29 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of January 31, 2020 consisted of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $1,693 million as compared to $1,600 million as of October 31, 2019. As of January 31, 2020, approximately $1,274 million of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents consist mainly of short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions, investments in institutional money market funds, and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions in which we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs. In addition, a few locations that are unable to access internal funding have access to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding, variable pay, and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities was $197 million for the three months ended January 31, 2020, compared to $240 million for the same period last year. Net income for the three months ended January 31, 2020 increased $49 million compared to the same period last year. Non-cash adjustments increased $19 million primarily due to a $30 million increase in deferred tax expense, a $12 million increase in share-based compensation expense, a $4 million increase in amortization expense and a $5 million increase from other miscellaneous non-cash activities, partially offset by an adjustment for a gain of $32 million resulting from insurance proceeds received for property, plant and equipment damaged in the 2017 California wildfires, which is reflected in investing activities. The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable used net cash of $65 million during the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash provided of $20 million in the comparable period last year. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable depends upon the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. The aggregate of employee compensation and benefits, income tax payable, deferred revenue and other assets and liabilities used net operating cash of $11 million during the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash provided of $24 million in the comparable period last year. The difference is primarily due to lower insurance recoveries related to the northern California wildfires and less cash inflow from deferred revenue as compared to the same period last year. We contributed $2 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to $8 million in the same period last year. We expect to contribute $6 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2020. For the three months ended January 31, 2020, we did not contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans or U.S. post-retirement benefit plan, and we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of 2020. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2020 as compared to $29 million for the same period last year. For the three months ended January 31, 2020 and 2019, investments in property, plant and equipment were $32 million and $31 million, respectively. For the three months ended January 31, 2020 , we received $32 million of insurance proceeds for property, plant and equipment damaged in the 2017 northern California wildfires, and we used $5 million for a small acquisition. For the three months ended January 31, 2019, we received $2 million from a small divestiture that closed in 2018. 30 Table of Contents We anticipate total fiscal 2020 capital spending to be approximately $125 million. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities For the three months ended January 31, 2020, we used $99 million for financing activities, which included $76 million for treasury stock repurchases and $49 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by proceeds of $26 million from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. On May 29, 2019, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $500 million of the companys common stock. The stock repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at the companys discretion and does not have an expiration date. At January 31, 2020, the maximum approximate dollar value of shares of common stock that may yet be purchased under the program was $335 million. In the three months ended January 31, 2019, we used $33 million for financing activities, including $40 million for treasury stock repurchases and $23 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by proceeds of $30 million from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Short-Term Debt Revolving Credit Facility We maintain a credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) that provides for a $450 million , five-year unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 15, 2022 . In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility permits us to increase the total commitments under this credit facility by up to $150 million in the aggregate on one or more occasions upon request. We may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2020 and October 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility during the three months ended January 31, 2020. Long-Term Debt There have been no changes to the principal, maturity, interest rates and interest payment terms of the senior notes during the three months ended January 31, 2020 as compared to the senior notes described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2019. Other There were no other material changes from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2019, to our contractual commitments in the first three months of 2020. There were no material changes in our liabilities toward uncertain tax positions from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2019. We are unable to accurately predict when these will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next 12 months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement.