ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as may, will, could, would, should, expects, plans, anticipates, relies, believes, estimates, predicts, intends, potential, continue, thinks, seeks, or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. Such forward-looking statements include, among others, forecasts of the future results of our operations, including profitability; orders for our products and capital equipment generally; sales of semiconductors; the investments by our customers in advanced technologies and new materials; the allocation of capital spending by our customers (and, in particular, the percentage of spending that our customers allocate to process control); growth of revenue in the semiconductor industry, the semiconductor capital equipment industry and our business; technological trends in the semiconductor industry; future developments or trends in the global capital and financial markets; our future product offerings and product features; the success and market acceptance of new products; timing of shipment of backlog; our future product shipments and product and service revenues; our future gross margins; our future research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses; our ability to successfully maintain cost discipline; international sales and operations; our ability to maintain or improve our existing competitive position; success of our product offerings; creation and funding of programs for research and development; attraction and retention of employees; results of our investment in leading edge technologies; the effects of hedging transactions; the effect of the sale of trade receivables and promissory notes from customers; our future effective income tax rate; our recognition of tax benefits; future payments of dividends to our stockholders; the completion of any acquisitions of third parties, or the technology or assets thereof; benefits received from any acquisitions and development of acquired technologies; sufficiency of our existing cash balance, investments, cash generated from operations and unfunded revolving line of credit under a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) to meet our operating and working capital requirements, including debt service and payment thereof; future dividends, and stock repurchases; our compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement; the expected timing of the completion of our global employee workforce reduction; the additional charges that we may incur in connection with our global employee workforce reduction; the expected cost savings that we expect to recognize as a result of such workforce reduction; the adoption of new accounting pronouncements; and our repayment of our outstanding indebtedness. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report as well as in Item 1, Business and Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 5, 2016 . You should carefully review these risks and also review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and we expressly assume no obligation and do not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this report after the date hereof. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY KLA-Tencor Corporation is a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. Our broad portfolio of inspection and metrology products, and related service, software and other offerings primarily supports integrated circuit (IC or chip) manufacturers throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process, from research and development to final volume production. We provide leading-edge equipment, software and support that enable IC manufacturers to identify, resolve and manage significant advanced technology manufacturing process challenges and obtain higher finished product yields at lower overall cost. In addition to serving the semiconductor industry, we also provide a range of technology solutions to a number of other high technology industries, including the LED and data storage industries, as well as general materials research. 33 Table of Contents Our products and services are used by the vast majority of bare wafer, IC, lithography reticle (reticle or mask) and disk manufacturers around the world. Our products, services and expertise are used by our customers to measure, detect, analyze and resolve critical product defects that arise in that environment in order to control nanometric level manufacturing processes. Our revenues are driven largely by our customers spending on capital equipment and related maintenance services necessary to support key transitions in their underlying product technologies, or to increase their production volumes in response to market demand. Our semiconductor customers generally operate in one or more of the three major semiconductor markets - memory, foundry and logic. All three of these markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and sudden shifts in end-user demand, which influence the level and pattern of our customers spending on our products and services. Although capital spending in all three semiconductor markets has historically been very cyclical, the demand for more advanced and lower cost chips used in a growing number of consumer electronics, communications, data processing, and industrial and automotive products has resulted over the long term in a favorable demand environment for our process control and yield management solutions, particularly in the foundry and logic markets, which have higher levels of process control adoption than the memory market. As we are a supplier to the global semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries, our customer base continues to become more highly concentrated over time, thereby increasing the potential impact of a sudden change in capital spending by a major customer on our revenues and profitability. As our customer base becomes increasingly more concentrated, large orders from a relatively limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our sales, which potentially exposes us to more volatility for revenues and earnings. We are also subject to the cyclical capital spending that has historically characterized the semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries. The timing, length, intensity and volatility of the capacity-oriented capital spending cycles of our customers are unpredictable. The semiconductor industry has also been characterized by constant technological innovation. The growing use of increasingly sophisticated semiconductor devices in mobile consumer products has caused many of our customers to invest in additional semiconductor manufacturing capabilities and capacity. On the other hand, higher design costs for the most advanced ICs could economically constrain leading-edge manufacturing technology customers to focus their resources on only the large technologically advanced products and applications. We believe that, over the long term, our customers will continue to invest in advanced technologies and new materials to enable smaller design rules and higher density applications that fuel demand for process control equipment, although the growth for such equipment may be adversely impacted by higher design costs for advanced ICs, reuse of installed products, and delays in production ramps by our customers in response to higher costs and technical challenges at more advanced technology nodes. The demand for our products and our revenue levels are driven by our customers needs to solve the process challenges that they face as they adopt new technologies required to fabricate advanced ICs that are incorporated into sophisticated mobile devices. The timing for our customers in ordering and taking delivery of process control and yield management equipment is also determined by our customers requirements to meet the next generation production ramp schedules, and the timing for capacity expansion to meet end customer demand. During the three months ended September 30, 2016 , our revenue was lower than the prior quarter, as expected. Our earnings will depend not only on our revenue levels, but also on the amount of research and development spending required to meet our customers technology roadmaps. We have maintained production volumes and capacity to meet anticipated customer requirements and remain at risk of incurring significant inventory-related and other restructuring charges if business conditions deteriorate. Over the past year, our customers have taken delivery of higher volumes of process control equipment than they did in the previous year. However, any delay or push out by our customers in taking delivery of process control and yield management equipment may cause earnings volatility, due to increases in the risk of inventory related charges as well as timing of revenue recognition. Proposed Merger with Lam Research On October 20, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the Merger Agreement or Merger) with Lam Research Corporation (Lam Research) which was subject to regulatory approvals. On October 5, 2016, we mutually agreed to terminate the Merger Agreement . No termination fees are payable by either party in connection with the termination. 34 Table of Contents The following table sets forth some of our key quarterly unaudited financial information: (In thousands, except net income per share) Three months ended September 30, 2016 June 30, 2016 March 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 September 30, 2015 Total revenues $ 750,673 $ 919,171 $ 712,433 $ 710,245 $ 642,644 Gross margin $ 472,837 $ 581,603 $ 437,834 $ 429,265 $ 372,400 Net income $ 178,101 $ 271,541 $ 175,777 $ 152,207 $ 104,897 Net income per share: Basic (1) $ 1.14 $ 1.74 $ 1.13 $ 0.98 $ 0.67 Diluted (1) $ 1.13 $ 1.73 $ 1.12 $ 0.98 $ 0.66 __________________ (1) Basic and diluted net income per share are computed independently for each of the quarters presented based on the weighted-average basic and fully diluted shares outstanding for each quarter. Therefore, the sum of quarterly basic and diluted net income per share information may not equal annual (or other multiple-quarter calculations of) basic and diluted net income per share. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying our accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure that they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our related disclosure in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition Inventories Warranty Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Equity and Cash-Based Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans Contingencies and Litigation Goodwill and Intangible Assets Income Taxes Valuation of Marketable Securities Other than the impact of the early adoption of the accounting standard update on accounting for share-based payment awards (see Recent Accounting Pronouncements below), there were no significant changes in our critical accounting estimates and policies during the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We derive revenue from three sourcessales of systems, spare parts and services. In general, we recognize revenue for systems when the system has been installed, is operating according to predetermined specifications and is accepted by the customer. When we have demonstrated a history of successful installation and acceptance, we recognize revenue upon delivery and customer acceptance. 35 Table of Contents Under certain circumstances, however, we recognize revenue prior to acceptance from the customer, as follows: When the customer fab has previously accepted the same tool, with the same specifications, and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria. When system sales to independent distributors have no installation requirement, contain no acceptance agreement, and 100% of the payment is due based upon shipment. When the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory. When the customer withholds acceptance due to issues unrelated to product performance, in which case revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets predetermined specifications. In circumstances in which we recognize revenue prior to installation, the portion of revenue associated with installation is deferred based on estimated fair value, and that revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation. In many instances, products are sold in stand-alone arrangements. Services are sold separately through renewals of annual maintenance contracts. We have multiple element revenue arrangements in cases where certain elements of a sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. To determine the relative fair value of each element in a revenue arrangement, we allocate arrangement consideration based on the selling price hierarchy. For substantially all of the arrangements with multiple deliverables pertaining to products and services, we use vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) or third-party evidence (TPE) to allocate the selling price to each deliverable. We determine TPE based on historical prices charged for products and services when sold on a stand-alone basis. When we are unable to establish relative selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price (ESP) in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. ESP could potentially be used for new or customized products. We regularly review relative selling prices and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. In a multiple element revenue arrangement, we defer revenue recognition associated with the relative fair value of each undelivered element until that element is delivered to the customer. To be considered a separate element, the product or service in question must represent a separate unit of accounting, which means that such product or service must fulfill the following criteria: (a) the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; and (b) if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. If the arrangement does not meet all the above criteria, the entire amount of the sales contract is deferred until all elements are accepted by the customer. Trade-in rights are occasionally granted to customers to trade in tools in connection with subsequent purchases. We estimate the value of the trade-in right and reduce the revenue recognized on the initial sale. This amount is recognized at the earlier of the exercise of the trade-in right or the expiration of the trade-in right. Spare parts revenue is recognized when the product has been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is probable. Service and maintenance contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including consulting and training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed and collectibility is reasonably assured. We sell stand-alone software that is subject to software revenue recognition guidance. We periodically review selling prices to determine whether VSOE exists, and in situations where we are unable to establish VSOE for undelivered elements such as post-contract service, revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the service contract. We also defer the fair value of non-standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non-standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40-hour per week coverage for 12 months. Non-standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. The deferred system profit balance equals the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers which have not met our revenue recognition criteria, less applicable product and warranty costs. Deferred system profit does not include the profit associated with product shipments to certain customers in Japan, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to such customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. 36 Table of Contents We enter into sales arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of our products and services where certain elements of the sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. Judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. Additionally, judgment is required to interpret various commercial terms and determine when all criteria of revenue recognition have been met in order for revenue recognition to occur in the appropriate accounting period. While changes in the allocation of the estimated selling price between the accounting units will not affect the amount of total revenue recognized for a particular arrangement, any material changes in these allocations could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in each business combination. We made certain organizational changes and consolidated our product divisions effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, in response to changing customer requirements in the industry. The Company has four reporting units: Wafer Inspection, Patterning, Global Services and Support, and Others. See Note 5, Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. We performed our annual qualitative assessment of the goodwill by reporting unit in our second quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 and concluded that there was no impairment. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. There have been no significant events or circumstances affecting the valuation of goodwill subsequent to our annual impairment test. The next annual evaluation of the goodwill by reporting unit will be performed during the three months ending December 31, 2016. If we were to encounter challenging economic conditions, such as a decline in our operating results, an unfavorable industry or macroeconomic environment, a substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, we may be required to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment analysis. In addition, if such conditions have the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we use to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets, we may be required to record goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment charge would occur or, if it does, whether such charge would be material to our results of operations. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation We account for stock-based awards granted to employees for services based on the fair value of those awards. The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as expense over the employees requisite service period. The fair value for restricted stock units granted without dividend equivalent rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date for restricted stock units, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on the restricted stock units. The fair value for restricted stock units granted with dividend equivalent rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. The award holder is not entitled to receive payments under dividend equivalent rights unless the associated restricted stock unit award vests (i.e., the award holder is entitled to receive credits, payable in cash or shares of our common stock, equal to the cash dividends that would have been received on the shares of our common stock underlying the restricted stock units had the shares been issued and outstanding on the dividend record date, but such dividend equivalents are only paid subject to the recipient satisfying the vesting requirements of the underlying award). The fair value is determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model for purchase rights under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the input of assumptions, including the options expected term and the expected price volatility of the underlying stock. The expected stock price volatility assumption is based on the market-based historical implied volatility from traded options of our common stock. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard update for customers cloud based fees. The guidance changes what a customer must consider in determining whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license. If the arrangement contains a software license, the customer would account for the fees related to the software license element in accordance with guidance related to internal use software; if the arrangement does not contain a software license, the customer would account for the arrangement as a service contract. We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2017 on a prospective basis and there was no impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify certain aspects of share-based payment awards to employees, including the accounting for income taxes, an option to recognize gross stock-based compensation expense with actual forfeitures recognized as they occur and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as certain classifications in the statement of cash flows. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, with early adoption permitted and all of the guidance must be adopted in the same period. However, we elected to early-adopt this standard update beginning in the first quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2017. Impact to Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations The primary impact of adopting the standard update is a change in the recording of the excess tax benefits or deficiencies from share-based payments. Before adoption, we recognized the excess tax benefits or deficiencies related to stock-based compensation as a credit or charge to additional paid-in capital (APIC) in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under the standard update, these excess tax benefits or deficiencies are recognized as a discrete tax benefit or discrete tax expense in the income tax provision in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. For the three months ended September 30, 2016, we recognized a discrete tax benefit of $5.7 million related to net excess tax benefits mainly from stock-based compensation and dividend equivalents. The standard update requires companies to adopt the amendment related to accounting for excess tax benefits or deficiencies on a prospective basis only and as a result, prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted. Impact to Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows In addition to the income tax consequence as described above, the standard update for share-based payment requires that cash flows from excess tax benefits related to share-based payments be reported as operating activities in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Previously, cash flows from excess tax benefit related to share-based payments were reported as financing activities. The standard update allows for two methods of adoption which are prospective or retrospective application. We elected to adopt this amendment on a prospective basis and as a result, prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted. Updates Not Yet Effective In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standard update regarding revenue from customer contracts to transfer goods and services or non-financial assets unless the contracts are covered by other standards (for example, insurance or lease contracts). Under the new guidance, an entity should recognize revenue in connection with the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires that reporting companies disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to defer the effective date of the update by one year, with early adoption on the original effective date permitted. With this amendment, the updates are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, with early adoption permitted beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. Subsequent to this amendment, the FASB has issued additional clarifying implementation guidance. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In July 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standard update for the subsequent measurement of inventory. The amended guidance requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. The requirement would replace the current lower of cost or market evaluation and the accounting guidance is unchanged for inventory measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2018 and should be applied prospectively with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for financial instruments primarily related to equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee), financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The accounting standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending 2019, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2020 using a modified retrospective transition method. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets. Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses. The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues and Gross Margin Three months ended (Dollar amounts in thousands) September 30, 2016 June 30, 2016 September 30, 2015 Q1 FY17 vs. Q4 FY16 Q1 FY17 vs. Q1 FY16 Revenues: Product $ 561,753 $ 731,118 $ 460,739 $ (169,365 ) (23 )% $ 101,014 22 % Service 188,920 188,053 181,905 867 % 7,015 4 % Total revenues $ 750,673 $ 919,171 $ 642,644 $ (168,498 ) (18 )% $ 108,029 17 % Costs of revenues $ 277,836 $ 337,568 $ 270,244 $ (59,732 ) (18 )% $ 7,592 3 % Gross margin percentage 63 % 63 % 58 % Product revenues Our business is affected by the concentration of our customer base and our customers capital equipment procurement schedules as a result of their investment plans. Our product revenues in any particular quarter are significantly impacted by the amount of new orders that we receive during that quarter and, depending upon the duration of manufacturing and installation cycles, in the preceding quarters. Product revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 , primarily due to lower product revenues from China, North America, Japan, Europe & Israel and Rest of Asia regions, partially offset by higher product revenues from Taiwan and Korea regions. We had strong product revenues during the three months ended June 30, 2016 because of the introduction of our new generation inspection products and the expansion of semiconductor investments in Asia, particularly in China and Taiwan from our foundry customers relative to the three months ended September 30, 2016. Product revenues increased during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily as a result of higher shipment backlog for systems at the beginning of the period, relative to the three months ended September 30, 2015. Our product revenues increased across all regions in Asia, partially offset by decreased product revenues from North America and Europe & Israel regions during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Service revenues Service revenues are generated from maintenance contracts, as well as billable time and material service calls made to our customers after the expiration of the warranty period. The amount of our service revenues is typically a function of the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers sites and the utilization of those systems, but it is also impacted by other factors, such as our rate of service contract renewals, the types of systems being serviced and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Service revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 remained relatively unchanged. Service revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased compared to the three months September 30, 2015 , primarily due to an increase over time in the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers sites. 39 Table of Contents Revenues by region The following is a summary of revenues by geographic region, based on ship-to location, for the indicated periods (as a percentage of total revenues): Three months ended (Dollar amounts in thousands) September 30, 2016 June 30, 2016 September 30, 2015 Taiwan $ 273,692 35 % $ 241,573 26 % $ 254,047 40 % Korea 135,089 18 % 130,253 14 % 73,433 11 % Japan 104,784 14 % 119,238 13 % 71,618 11 % North America 87,266 12 % 131,422 15 % 109,208 17 % China 85,689 12 % 190,978 21 % 75,352 12 % Europe & Israel 34,848 5 % 49,029 5 % 39,846 6 % Rest of Asia 29,305 4 % 56,678 6 % 19,140 3 % Total $ 750,673 100 % $ 919,171 100 % $ 642,644 100 % A significant portion of our revenues continues to be generated in Asia, where a substantial portion of the worlds semiconductor manufacturing capacity is located, and we expect that trend to continue. Gross margin Our gross margin fluctuates with revenue levels and product mix and is affected by variations in costs related to manufacturing and servicing our products, including our ability to scale our operations efficiently and effectively in response to prevailing business conditions. The following table summarizes the major factors that contributed to the changes in gross margin percentage: Gross Margin Percentage Gross Margin Percentage Three months ended Three months ended June 30, 2016 63.3 % September 30, 2015 57.9 % Revenue volume of products and services (2.7 )% Revenue volume of products and services 1.8 % Mix of products and services sold 2.0 % Mix of products and services sold 2.7 % Manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies (0.6 )% Manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies (0.3 )% Other service and manufacturing costs 1.0 % Other service and manufacturing costs 0.9 % September 30, 2016 63.0 % September 30, 2016 63.0 % Changes in gross margin percentage driven by revenue volume of products and services reflect our ability to leverage existing infrastructure to generate higher revenues. It also includes the effect of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, average customer pricing and customer revenue deferrals associated with volume purchase agreements. Changes in gross margin percentage from mix of products and services sold reflect the impact of changes in the composition within product and service offerings. Changes in gross margin percentage from manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies reflect our ability to manage costs and drive productivity as we scale our manufacturing activity to respond to customer requirements; this includes the impact of capacity utilization, use of overtime and variability of cost structure. Changes in gross margin percentage from other service and manufacturing costs include the impact of customer support costs, including the efficiencies with which we deliver services to our customers, and the effectiveness with which we manage our production plans and inventory risk. Our gross margin decreased to 63.0% during the three months ended September 30, 2016 from 63.3% during the three months ended June 30, 2016 , primarily due to lower revenue volume of products and services, and a reduction in manufacturing efficiencies, partially offset by a favorable mix of products and services sold and due to lower charges for inventory obsolescence. Our gross margin increased to 63.0% during the three months ended September 30, 2016 from 57.9% during the three months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to a favorable mix of products and services sold, higher revenue volume of products and services, and due to lower charges for inventory obsolescence, partially offset by a reduction in manufacturing efficiencies driven by lower manufacturing output. 40 Table of Contents Research and Development (R&D) (Dollar amounts in thousands) Three months ended September 30, 2016 June 30, 2016 September 30, 2015 Q1 FY17 vs. Q4 FY16 Q1 FY17 vs. Q1 FY16 R&D expenses $ 129,233 $ 127,454 $ 119,943 $ 1,779 1 % $ 9,290 8 % R&D expenses as a percentage of total revenues 17 % 14 % 19 % R&D expenses may fluctuate with product development phases and project timing as well as our focused R&D efforts that are aligned with our overall business strategy. As technological innovation is essential to our success, we may incur significant costs associated with R&D projects, including compensation for engineering talent, engineering material costs, and other expenses. R&D expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 , primarily due to an increase in consulting expenses of $1.8 million and an increase in employee-related expenses, net of lower variable compensation, of $1.8 million due to additional engineering headcount, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense of $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to June 30, 2016. R&D expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to an increase in employee-related expenses of $5.5 million on account of higher variable compensation and additional engineering headcount, an increase in consulting expenses of $4.9 million, an increase in engineering materials and supplies expenses of $1.7 million, and an increase in merger-related expenses of $1.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense of $2.1 million, an increase in the benefit to R&D expense from external funding of $1.4 million, and lower severance-related expense of $1.0 million. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to produce products and provide services that have a competitive advantage in our marketplace. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial and focused investments in our research and development. We remain committed to product development in new and emerging technologies as we address the yield challenges our customers face at future technology nodes. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Three months ended (Dollar amounts in thousands) September 30, 2016 June 30, 2016 September 30, 2015 Q1 FY17 vs. Q4 FY16 Q1 FY17 vs. Q1 FY16 SG&A expenses $ 94,388 $ 103,797 $ 91,663 $ (9,409 ) (9 )% $ 2,725 3 % SG&A expenses as a percentage of total revenues 13 % 11 % 14 % SG&A expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2016 decreased compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 , primarily due to a decrease in employee-related expenses of $8.4 million as a result of lower variable compensation, and a decrease in our merger-related expenses of $1.9 million. SG&A expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to an increase in merger-related expenses of $2.4 million, an increase in employee-related expenses of $1.8 million as a result of higher variable compensation, and an increase in facilities related expenses of approximately $1.0 million, partially offset by a decrease in our severance-related expenses of $3.3 million and lower contributions to our corporate social responsibility program of $1.0 million. Restructuring Charges During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended 2015, we announced a plan to reduce our global employee workforce to streamline our organization and business processes in response to changing customer requirements in our industry. The goals of this reduction were to enable continued innovation, direct our resources toward our best opportunities and lower our ongoing expense run rate. We substantially completed our global workforce reduction during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 . 41 Table of Contents The following table shows the activity which is primarily related to accrued severance and benefits for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 : Three months ended September 30, (In thousands) 2016 2015 Beginning balance $ 587 $ 24,887 Restructuring costs 7,066 Adjustments (26 ) 373 Cash payments (274 ) (19,265 ) Ending balance $ 287 $ 13,061 The remaining accrual for severance and benefits as of September 30, 2016 is expected to be substantially paid out by the end of our quarter ending December 31, 2016. Interest Expense and Other Expense (Income), Net (Dollar amounts in thousands) Three months ended September 30, 2016 June 30, 2016 September 30, 2015 Interest expense $ 30,732 $ 30,889 $ 30,564 Other expense (income), net $ (3,736 ) $ (9,024 ) $ (4,069 ) Interest expense as a percentage of total revenues 4 % 3 % 5 % Other expense (income), net as a percentage of total revenues % 1 % 1 % Interest expense during the three months ended September 30, 2016 remained relatively unchanged compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015 and included the interest expense and related charges for the $2.5 billion Senior Notes, the $536.3 million outstanding unsecured prepayable term loans and $500 million unfunded revolving credit facility executed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. Other expense (income), net is comprised primarily of realized gains or losses on sales of marketable securities, gains or losses from revaluations of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities as well as foreign currency contracts, impairments associated with equity investments in privately-held companies and any subsequent recoveries of impaired investments, interest-related accruals (such as interest and penalty accruals related to our tax obligations) and interest income earned on our investment and cash portfolio. The decrease in other expense (income), net during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to a reduction of interest and penalty accruals related to uncertain tax positions of $3.6 million and a gain in connection with the sale of equity investments in privately-held companies of $1.5 million that were recorded during the three months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease in other expense (income), net during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to a decrease in interest and penalty accruals related to uncertain tax positions of $1.3 million and a decrease in gain in connection with the sale of equity investment in a privately-held company of $1.2 million, partially offset by an increase in interest income from our investment portfolio of $1.9 million driven by higher interest rates. 42 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table provides details of income taxes: Three months ended September 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 Income before income taxes $ 222,220 $ 134,299 Provision for income taxes $ 44,119 $ 29,402 Effective tax rate 19.9 % 21.9 % We have forecasted an effective tax rate of 22% for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017 . Tax expense was lower as a percentage of income before taxes during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to the impact of the following items: Tax expense decreased by $5.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 related to the recognition of excess tax benefits in the provision for income taxes as a result of early adoption of the accounting standard update on accounting for share-based payments. See Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation for additional details; Tax expense decreased by $2.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 when the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015 permanently reinstated the research credit on December 18, 2015 retroactively to January 1, 2015. Tax expense was not reduced by the research credit during the three months ended September 30, 2015 as the research credit had expired on December 31, 2014; Tax expense decreased by $5.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 related to a non-taxable increase in the value of the assets held within our Executive Deferred Savings Plan; partially offset by Tax expense decreased by $8.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2015 related to a decrease in our unrecognized tax benefits from the expiration of the statute of limitations. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world. We are subject to United States federal income tax examination for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. We are subject to state income tax examinations for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. We are also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore, for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. It is possible that certain examinations may be concluded in the next twelve months. We believe that we may recognize up to $3.9 million of our existing unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of statutes of limitations and the resolution of examinations with various tax authorities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (Dollar amounts in thousands) As of September 30, 2016 As of June 30, 2016 Cash and cash equivalents $ 966,325 $ 1,108,488 Marketable securities 1,528,296 1,382,806 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 2,494,621 $ 2,491,294 Percentage of total assets 50 % 50 % Three months ended September 30, (In thousands) 2016 2015 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 169,777 $ 193,782 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (167,823 ) 31,900 Net cash used in financing activities (146,689 ) (295,633 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2,572 (4,377 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (142,163 ) $ (74,328 ) 43 Table of Contents Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities: As of September 30, 2016 , our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $2.49 billion , which is an increase of $3.3 million from June 30, 2016 . The increase is primarily attributable to our cash generated from operations, largely offset by payment of regular quarterly cash dividends and payment of a special cash dividend with respect to fully vested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights aggregating to $89.3 million , prepayment of term loans of $40.0 million , tax withholding payment related to vested and released restricted stock units of $17.4 million and capital expenditure of $9.9 million. As of September 30, 2016 , $1.84 billion of our $2.49 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest $1.68 billion of the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. If, however, a portion of these funds were to be repatriated to the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. and foreign taxes of approximately 30%-50% of the funds repatriated. The amount of taxes due will depend on the amount and manner of the repatriation, as well as the location from which the funds are repatriated. We have accrued (but have not paid) U.S. taxes on the remaining cash of $159.1 million of the $1.84 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. As such, these funds can be returned to the U.S. without accruing any additional U.S. tax expense. Quarterly Cash Dividends and Special Cash Dividend: During three months ended September 30, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.52 per share on our outstanding common stock, which was paid on September 1, 2016 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 15, 2016 . During the same period in fiscal year 2016, our Board of Directors declared and paid a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.52 per share on our outstanding common stock. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends paid during each of the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $81.6 million . The amount of accrued dividends payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights was $2.7 million as of September 30, 2016 and June 30, 2016 . These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying unvested restricted stock units as described in Note 7, Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans. On October 5, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized an increase in the level of our quarterly cash dividend from $0.52 to $0.54 per share. This increase is expected to take effect beginning with our quarterly dividend to be declared in November 2016. On November 19, 2014, we declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock which was paid on December 9, 2014 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2014. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 6, Debt that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. As of the declaration date, the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us was approximately $2.76 billion , substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014 , except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units. As of September 30, 2016 and June 30, 2016, we had $9.3 million and $16.9 million , respectively, of accrued dividends payable for the special cash dividend with respect to outstanding unvested restricted stock units, which will be paid when such underlying unvested restricted stock units vest. We paid a special cash dividend with respect to vested restricted stock units during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 of $7.7 million and $20.0 million , respectively. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014 , we historically have not declared any special cash dividends. Stock Repurchases: The shares repurchased under our stock repurchase program have reduced our basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. The stock repurchase program is intended, in part, to offset shares issued in connection with the purchases under our ESPP program and the vesting of employee restricted stock units. Cash Flows from Operating Activities: We have historically financed our liquidity requirements through cash generated from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2016 decreased by approximately $24.0 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 primarily as a result of the following factors: An increase in income tax payments of approximately $32.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 ; An increase in payroll and employee-related payments of approximately $4.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 ; 44 Table of Contents A decrease in collections of approximately $3.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 ; partially offset by The positive impact of our early adoption of the new accounting standard update for share-based payment on a prospective basis during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , which no longer requires the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation to be shown as a reduction within cash flows from operating activities of $10.2 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 ; and An increase in interest income of approximately $2.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 , mainly due to higher interest rates increase. Cash Flows from Investing Activities: Net cash used by investing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 by approximately $200.0 million, primarily as a result of net increase of investment in marketable securities during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2016 decreased by approximately $149.0 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Net cash used in financing activities were mainly impacted by: A decrease in common stock repurchases of approximately $143.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 ; A decrease in payment of dividends to stockholders of approximately $12.0 million, mainly due to lower payments of dividend equivalents during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 ; A decrease in payment of restricted stock units withholding taxes of approximately $4.0 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 ; partially offset by The negative impact of our early adoption of the new accounting standard update for share-based payment on a prospective basis during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , which no longer requires the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation to be shown as cash inflow from financing activities of $10.2 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Senior Notes: In November 2014, we issued $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes (collectively referred to as Senior Notes). We issued the Senior Notes as part of the leveraged recapitalization plan under which the proceeds from the Senior Notes in conjunction with the proceeds from the term loans (described below) and cash on hand were used (x) to fund a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share, aggregating to approximately $2.76 billion , (y) to redeem $750.0 million of 2018 Senior Notes, including associated redemption premiums, accrued interest and other fees and expenses and (z) for other general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares pursuant to our stock repurchase program. The interest rate specified for each series of the Senior Notes will be subject to adjustments from time to time if Moodys Investor Service, Inc. (Moodys) or Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) or, under certain circumstances, a substitute rating agency selected by us as a replacement for Moodys or S&P, as the case may be (a Substitute Rating Agency), downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the respective series of Senior Notes such that the adjusted rating is below investment grade. If the adjusted rating of any series of Senior Notes from Moodys (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) is decreased to Ba1, Ba2, Ba3 or B1 or below, the stated interest rate on such series of Senior Notes as noted above will increase by 25 bps , 50 bps , 75 bps or 100 bps , respectively (bps refers to Basis Points and 1% is equal to 100 bps). If the rating of any series of Senior Notes from S&P (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) with respect to such series of Senior Notes is decreased to BB+, BB, BB- or B+ or below, the stated interest rate on such series of Senior Notes as noted above will increase by 25 bps , 50 bps , 75 bps or 100 bps , respectively. The interest rates on any series of Senior Notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by any of Moodys, S&P and, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) if such series of Senior Notes becomes rated Baa1 (or its equivalent) or higher by Moodys (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) and BBB+ (or its equivalent) or higher by S&P (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency), or one of those ratings if rated by only one of Moodys, S&P and, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency, in each case with a stable or positive outlook. In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts to lock the 10-year treasury rate (benchmark rate) on a portion of the Senior Notes with a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate. For additional details, refer to Note 14, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. 45 Table of Contents The original discount on the Senior Notes amounted to $4.0 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The debt indenture (the Indenture) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on its facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. As of September 30, 2016 , we were in compliance with all of the covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes. Credit Facility (Term Loans and Unfunded Revolving Credit Facility): In November 2014, we entered into $750.0 million of five -year senior unsecured prepayable term loans and a $500.0 million unfunded revolving credit facility (collectively, the Credit Facility) under the Credit Agreement. The interest under the Credit Facility will be payable on the borrowed amounts at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread, which is currently 125 bps , and this spread is subject to adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. The spread ranges from 100 bps to 175 bps based on the then effective credit rating. We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee of 15 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the revolving credit facility, which is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades by Moodys and S&P. The annual commitment fee ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the revolving credit facility, depending upon the then effective credit rating. Principal payments with respect to the term loans will be made on the last day of each calendar quarter and any unpaid principal balance of the term loans, including accrued interest, shall be payable on November 14, 2019 (the Maturity Date). We may prepay the term loans and unfunded revolving credit facility at any time without a prepayment penalty. During the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2017 , we made term loan principal payments of $40.0 million . Future principal payments for the term loans (without giving effect to $148.1 million of principal prepayments as of September 30, 2016 that shall be applied to the future scheduled quarterly payments) as of September 30, 2016 , are as follows: Fiscal Quarters Ending Quarterly Payment (in thousands) December 31, 2016 $ 9,375 March 31, 2017 through December 31, 2017 $ 14,063 March 31, 2018 through September 30, 2019 $ 18,750 December 31, 2019 $ 487,500 The Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for the fiscal quarters as described below. Fiscal Quarters Ending Maximum Leverage Ratio September 30, 2016 3.75:1.00 December 31, 2016 and March 31, 2017 3.50:1.00 Thereafter 3.00:1.00 We were in compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2016 (the interest expense coverage ratio was 9.73 to 1.00 and the leverage ratio was 2.54 to 1.00) and had no outstanding borrowings under the unfunded revolving credit facility. Considering our current liquidity position, short-term financial forecasts and ability to prepay the term loans, if necessary, we expect to continue to be in compliance with our financial covenants at the end of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016. 46 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations: The following is a schedule summarizing our significant obligations to make future payments under contractual obligations as of September 30, 2016 : Fiscal year ending June 30, (In thousands) Total 2017 (2) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 and thereafter Other Debt obligations (1) $ 3,036,250 $ $ 250,000 $ 30,000 $ 756,250 $ $ 2,000,000 $ Interest payment associated with all debt obligations (3) 944,199 116,318 116,405 113,377 100,786 92,875 404,438 Purchase commitments (4) 340,561 333,155 7,102 114 85 105 Income taxes payable (5) 59,021 59,021 Operating leases 20,879 6,312 5,719 2,893 2,068 544 3,343 Cash long-term incentive program (6) 121,034 46,792 37,010 25,033 11,809 390 Pension obligations (7) 21,761 976 1,487 1,536 1,452 1,664 14,646 Executive Deferred Savings Plan (8) 175,211 175,211 Other (9) 36,145 938 30,911 3,791 505 Total contractual cash obligations $ 4,755,061 $ 504,491 $ 448,634 $ 176,744 $ 872,955 $ 95,578 $ 2,422,427 $ 234,232 __________________ (1) In November 2014, we issued $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of term loans due in 2020 (outstanding balance of $536.3 million as of September 30, 2016 ) and $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due from fiscal year 2018 to fiscal year 2035. During the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2017 , we made term loan principal payments of $40.0 million . (2) For remaining nine months of fiscal year 2017. (3) The interest payments associated with the Senior Notes obligations included in the table above are based on the principal amount multiplied by the applicable coupon rate for each series of Senior Notes. Our future interest payments are subject to change if our then effective credit rating is below investment grade as discussed above. The interest payments under the term loans are payable on the borrowed amounts at the LIBOR plus 125 bps. As of September 30, 2016 , we utilized the existing interest rates to project our estimated term loans interest payments through fiscal year 2020. The interest payment under the revolving credit facility for the undrawn balance is payable at 15 bps as a commitment fee based on the daily undrawn balance and we utilized the existing rate for the projected interest payments included in the table above. Our future interest payments for the term loans and the revolving credit facility are subject to change due to future fluctuations in the LIBOR rates as well as any upgrades or downgrades to our then effective credit rating. (4) Represents an estimate of significant commitments to purchase inventory from our suppliers as well as an estimate of significant purchase commitments associated with other goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. (5) Represents the estimated income tax payable obligation related to uncertain tax positions as well as related accrued interest. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. (6) Represents the amount committed under our cash long-term incentive program. The expected payment after estimated forfeitures is approximately $97.6 million . (7) Represents an estimate of expected benefit payments up to fiscal year 2026 that was actuarially determined and excludes the minimum cash required to contribute to the plan. As of September 30, 2016 , our defined benefit pension plans do not have material required minimum cash contribution obligations. 47 Table of Contents (8) Represents the amount committed under our non-qualified executive deferred compensation plan. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to the uncertainties in the timing around participants separation and any potential changes that participants may decide to make to the previous distribution elections. (9) Includes $24.1 million of employee-related retention commitments made in connection with the pendency of the Merger as well as the amount committed for accrued dividends payable of $12.0 million , substantially all of which are for the special cash dividend for the unvested restricted stock units as of the dividend record date as well as restricted stock units granted with dividend equivalent rights. For additional details, refer to Note 7, Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans. We have adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (Cash LTI) program for many of our employees as part of our employee compensation program. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (Cash LTI Plan) generally vest in four equal installments, with 25% of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each yearly anniversary of the grant date over a four-year period. In order to receive payments under the Cash LTI Plan, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date. We have agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (LCs), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods. The following table shows total receivables sold under factoring agreements and proceeds from sales of LCs for the indicated periods: Three months ended September 30, (In thousands) 2016 2015 Receivables sold under factoring agreements $ 56,733 $ 33,844 Proceeds from sales of LCs $ 3,408 $ Factoring and LC fees for the sale of certain trade receivables were recorded in other expense (income), net and were not material for the periods presented. We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $22.5 million , of which $19.2 million had been issued as of September 30, 2016 , primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (VAT) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe and Asia. We maintain certain open inventory purchase commitments with our suppliers to ensure a smooth and continuous supply for key components. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. Our open inventory purchase commitments were approximately $340.6 million as of September 30, 2016 and are primarily due within the next 12 months. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. We provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for 40 hours per week for 12 months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of revenues when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. The actual product performance and/or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty accruals accordingly. The difference between the estimated and actual warranty costs tends to be larger for new product introductions as there is limited historical product performance to estimate warranty expense; our warranty charge estimates for more mature products with longer product performance histories tend to be more stable. Non-standard warranty coverage generally includes services incremental to the standard 40 hours per week coverage for 12 months. See Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details. 48 Table of Contents Working Capital: Working capital was $2.95 billion as of September 30, 2016 , which is an increase of $88.8 million compared to our working capital of $2.87 billion as of June 30, 2016 . As of September 30, 2016 , our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $2.49 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global and regional economies and the semiconductor and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents balances and our $500.0 million unfunded revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with working capital needs, capital expenditures, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other contractual obligations, including repayment of outstanding debt, for at least the next 12 months. Our credit ratings as of September 30, 2016 are summarized below: Rating Agency Rating Fitch BBB- Moodys Baa2 Standard & Poors BBB Factors that can affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, our financial position, and changes in our business strategy. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Under our foreign currency risk management strategy, we utilize derivative instruments to protect our earnings and cash flows from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. This financial exposure is monitored and managed as an integral part of our overall risk management program which focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. We continue our policy of hedging our current and forecasted foreign currency exposures with hedging instruments having tenors of up to 18 months (see Note 14, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details). Our outstanding hedge contracts, with maximum remaining maturities of approximately seven months as of September 30, 2016 and June 30, 2016, respectively, were as follows: (In thousands) As of September 30, 2016 As of June 30, 2016 Cash flow hedge contracts Purchase $ 8,058 $ 7,591 Sell $ 98,256 $ 91,793 Other foreign currency hedge contracts Purchase $ 113,793 $ 122,275 Sell $ 114,506 $ 115,087 In October 2014, in anticipation of the issuance of the Senior Notes, we entered into a series of forward contracts (Rate Lock Agreements) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes. The objective of the Rate Lock Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate leading up to the closing of the intended financing, on the notional amount being hedged. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 . We designated each of the Rate Lock Agreements as a qualifying hedging instrument and accounted for as a cash flow hedge, under which the effective portion of the gain or loss on the close out of the Rate Lock Agreements was initially recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a reduction of total stockholders equity and subsequently amortized into earnings as a component of interest expense over the term of the underlying debt. The ineffective portion, if any, was recognized in earnings immediately. The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2014 . We recognized $0.2 million for each of the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense. As of September 30, 2016 , the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the rate lock agreements was $6.1 million . 49 Table of Contents Indemnification Obligations. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees with respect to certain litigation matters and investigations that arise in connection with their service to us. These obligations arise under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, applicable contracts, and Delaware and California law. The obligation to indemnify generally means that we are required to pay or reimburse the individuals reasonable legal expenses and possibly damages and other liabilities incurred in connection with these matters. For example, we have paid or reimbursed legal expenses incurred in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related litigation and government inquiries by a number of our current and former directors, officers and employees. Although the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under the indemnification obligations generally described in this paragraph is theoretically unlimited, we believe the fair value of this liability, to the extent estimable, is appropriately considered within the reserve we have established for currently pending legal proceedings. We are a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in connection with contracts and license agreements or the sale of assets, under which we customarily agree to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from, or provide customers with other remedies to protect against, bodily injury or damage to personal property caused by our products, non-compliance with our product performance specifications, infringement of third-party intellectual property rights used in our products and a breach of warranties, representations and covenants related to matters such as title to assets sold, validity of certain intellectual property rights, non-infringement of third-party rights, and certain income tax-related matters. In each of these circumstances, payment by us is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with us pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract. This usually allows us to challenge the other partys claims or, in case of breach of intellectual property representations or covenants, to control the defense or settlement of any third-party claims brought against the other party. Further, our obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of amounts, activity (typically at our option to replace or correct the products or terminate the agreement with a refund to the other party), and duration. In some instances, we may have recourse against third parties and/or insurance covering certain payments made by us. In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, service response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 50 Table of Contents