Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. You should carefully review these risks and also review the risks described in other parts of this report and in documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that we will file in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2025. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and we expressly assume no obligation and do not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this report after the date hereof. iii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1.BUSINESS Specific industry and technical terms used in this section are defined in the subsection entitled Glossary, found at the end of this Item 1. The Company KLA Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries (KLA or the Company and also referred to as we, our, us or similar references) are suppliers of industry-leading equipment and services that enables innovation throughout the electronics industry. We provide advanced process control and process-enabling solutions for manufacturing wafers, reticles/masks, chemicals/materials, integrated circuits (IC or chip), packaged ICs and printed circuit boards (PCB), as well as comprehensive support and services across our installed base. Our suite of advanced products, coupled with our unique process control software and services, allow us to deliver the solutions our customers need to achieve their technology advancement and high volume production goals by significantly improving yields, while simultaneously reducing waste, risks and costs. This improves our customers overall profitability and return on investment. KLA was formed as KLA-Tencor Corporation in April 1997 through the merger of KLA Instruments Corporation and Tencor Instruments, two long-time leaders in the semiconductor capital equipment industry that began operations in 1975 and 1976, respectively. We are organized into three reportable segments: Semiconductor Process Control; Specialty Semiconductor Process; and PCB and Component Inspection. Within the Semiconductor Process Control segment, our comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and software products, as well as related services, help IC, wafer, reticle/mask and chemical/materials manufacturers achieve target yields throughout the entire fabrication process, from R&D to high volume production. These products and services are designed to provide comprehensive solutions to help customers accelerate development and production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable product yields and improve their overall profitability. Within the Specialty Semiconductor Process segment, we develop and sell advanced vacuum deposition and etch process tools, which are used by a broad range of specialty semiconductor customers, including manufacturers of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), radio frequency (RF) communication semiconductors, and power semiconductors for automotive and industrial applications. Within the PCB and Component Inspection segment, we sell products and services that enable electronic device manufacturers to inspect, test and measure PCBs, IC substrates and packaged ICs to verify their quality, pattern the desired electronic circuitry on the relevant substrate and perform three-dimensional shaping of metalized circuits on multiple surfaces. Additional information about KLA is available at www.kla.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. Additionally, these filings may be obtained through the SECs website (www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Investors and others should note that we may announce material financial information to investors using our investor relations website (ir.kla.com), which includes our SEC filings, press releases, public earnings calls and conference webcasts. The investor relations website is used to communicate with the public about us and our products, services and other matters. Industry Our core focus is enabling technological advances and improving manufacturing yields in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor fabrication process begins with a bare silicon wafer - a round disk typically 200 millimeters or 300 millimeters in diameter, about as thick as a credit card and gray in color. The process of manufacturing wafers is highly sophisticated and involves the creation of large ingots of silicon by pulling them out of a vat of molten silicon. The ingots are then sliced into wafers. Prime silicon wafers are then polished to a mirror finish. Other, more specialized wafers, such as epitaxial silicon (epi), silicon on insulator (SOI), gallium nitride (GaN) and silicon carbide (SiC) are also used in the semiconductor industry. The manufacturing cycle of an IC is grouped into three phases: design, fabrication and testing. IC design involves the architectural layout of the circuit, as well as design verification and reticle generation. The fabrication of a semiconductor chip (or semiconductor) is accomplished by depositing a series of film layers that act as conductors, semiconductors or insulators 1 Table of Contents on bare wafers. The deposition of these film layers is interspersed with numerous other process steps that create circuit patterns, remove portions of the film layers, and perform other functions such as heat treatment, measurement and inspection. Most advanced chip designs require hundreds of individual steps, many performed multiple times. Most chips consist of two main structures: the lower structure, typically consisting of transistors or capacitors, which performs the smart functions; and the upper interconnect structure, typically consisting of circuitry, which connects the components in the lower structure. When the layers on the wafer have been fabricated, each chip on the wafer is tested for functionality. The wafer is then cut into individual chips, and the chips that pass functional testing are packaged. Final testing is performed on all packaged chips. Packaged chips are then mounted onto PCBs for connection to the rest of the electronic system. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device manufacturers. This is driven by the current and anticipated market demand for ICs, products utilizing ICs and other electronic components. We do not consider our business to be seasonal. Still, our business has historically been cyclical with respect to the capital equipment procurement practices of semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device manufacturers, and it is impacted by the investment patterns of such manufacturers in different global markets. Downturns in the semiconductor or other industries in which we operate, or slowdowns in the worldwide economy as well as customer consolidation, could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results. Companies anticipating future market demands by developing and advancing new technologies and manufacturing processes are better positioned to lead in the semiconductor market. Accelerating the yield ramp and maximizing production yields of high-performance devices are critical goals of modern semiconductor and related electronics manufacturing. Ramping to high-volume production ahead of competitors can dramatically increase IC manufacturers revenue and profit for a given product. Leading semiconductor manufacturers invest in simultaneous production integration of multiple new process technologies, some requiring new substrate and film materials, new geometries, new transistor architectures, new power distribution schemes, advanced multi-patterning optical and extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography, and advanced packaging techniques. As design rules decrease, yields become more sensitive to the size and density of defects. Device performance characteristics (namely speed, capacity or power management) also become more sensitive to parameters such as linewidth and film thickness variation. New process materials require extensive characterization before they can be used in the manufacturing process. Moving several of these advanced technologies into production at once only adds to the risks that chipmakers face. The continuing evolution of semiconductors to smaller geometries and more complex multi-level circuitry has significantly increased the performance and cost requirements of the capital equipment used to manufacture these devices. Construction of an advanced IC fabrication facility today can cost well above $10 billion, substantially more than previous-generation facilities. In addition, chipmakers are demanding increased productivity and higher returns from their manufacturing equipment and are also seeking ways to extend the performance of their existing equipment. The semiconductor capital equipment industry has been experiencing multiple growth drivers bolstered by demand for semiconductors from leading-edge foundry and logic manufacturers to support computational power and connectivity for markets such as artificial intelligence (AI) and 5G wireless technology and increasing investment by our customers in legacy nodes. The growth of virtual engagement and the pace of digitization has been driven by COVID-19 related travel restrictions, work from home activities, and advances in healthcare and industrial applications. These factors, together with the increasing adoption of electric vehicles and intelligence in automobiles, are powering leading-edge design node technology investments and capacity expansions. Intertwined in these areas, spurred by the requirements of AI, is the growth in demand for memory chips. Regionalization of semiconductors has become a trend as access to semiconductors is viewed from the lens of national security. China remains as a major region for the manufacturing of legacy node logic and memory chips, adding to its role as the worlds largest consumer of ICs. The Chinese government initiatives around self-sustainability are propelling China to expand its domestic manufacturing capacity. Although China is currently seen as an important long-term growth region for the semiconductor capital equipment sector, Commerce has added certain China-based entities to the U.S. Entity List (a list of parties that are generally ineligible to receive U.S. regulated items without prior licensing from BIS), restricting our ability to provide products and services to such entities without a license. In addition, Commerce has imposed export licensing requirements on China-based customers that are military end users or engaged in military end uses. It also requires our customers to obtain an export license when they use certain semiconductor capital equipment based on U.S. technology to manufacture products connected to certain entities on the U.S. Entity List. Research and Development The market for semiconductor and electronics industries is characterized by rapid technological development and product innovation. These technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. We make significant investments in product R&D for the timely development of new products and enhancements necessary to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our human and financial resources to R&D programs and seek to maintain close relationships with customers to remain responsive to their needs. 2 Table of Contents Our key R&D activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 involved the development of process control and process-enabling solutions for a broad range of industries including semiconductors and PCBs. For information regarding our R&D expenses during the last three fiscal years, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is primarily due to our leading technology, which is the result of our continuing significant investments in product R&D. Even during down cycles in the semiconductor industry, we have remained committed to significant engineering efforts toward both product improvement and new product development to enhance our competitive position. Customers We count among our largest customers the leading semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device manufacturers in Asia, the U.S. and Europe. Our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to compete successfully in Asia, one of the largest markets for our equipment. Our ability to compete in this area depends upon the continuation of favorable trading relationships between countries in the region and the U.S., and our continuing ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with leading semiconductor companies in the region. Refer to Backlog section below for information regarding export licenses now required for certain products and services sold to China. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024, 2023 and 2022, the following customers each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues, primarily in the Semiconductor Process Control segment: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2022 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sales, Service and Marketing Our sales, service and marketing efforts aim to build deep long-term relationships with our customers. We focus on providing comprehensive resources for the full breadth of process control, process-enabling and yield management solutions for manufacturing and testing wafers and reticles, a wide variety of ICs, PCBs, IC substrates and packaging as well as general materials research. Our revenues are derived primarily from product sales and related service contracts, mostly through our direct sales force. We believe that the size and location of our field sales, service engineering, applications engineering, and marketing organizations represent a competitive advantage in our served markets. We have direct sales forces in Asia, the U.S. and Europe. We maintain an export compliance program designed to meet the requirements of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State and the trade regulations of the international jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition to sales and service offices in the U.S., we conduct sales, marketing and services out of subsidiaries or branches in many regions; some of the largest include China, Germany, Israel, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. We believe sales outside the U.S. will continue to be a significant percentage of our total revenues. International revenues accounted for approximately 89%, 88% and 90% of our total revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Additional information regarding our revenues from foreign operations for our last three fiscal years can be found in Note 19 Segment Reporting and Geographic Information to our Consolidated Financial Statements. International sales and operations may be adversely affected by the imposition of governmental controls, restrictions on export technology, political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and the difficulties associated with staffing and managing international operations. In addition, international sales may be adversely affected by the economic conditions in each country and by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Such fluctuations may negatively impact our ability to compete on price with local providers or the value of revenues we generate from our international business. Although we attempt to manage some of the currency risk inherent in non-U.S. dollar product sales through hedging activities, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. These factors, as well as any of the other risk factors related to our international business and operations that are described in Item 1A Risk Factors, could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results. Products and Services KLA develops industry-leading process control and yield management solutions and services that enable innovation throughout the semiconductor and related electronics industries. We provide advanced process control and process-enabling 3 Table of Contents solutions for manufacturing wafers, reticles, ICs, packaging, PCBs, IC substrates and flat and flexible panel displays. In March 2024, we made the decision to exit our business of manufacturing flat and flexible panel displays (Display) by announcing the end of manufacturing of most Display products by December 31, 2024, but we will continue to provide services to the installed base of Display products for existing customers. The Semiconductor Process Control segment offers a comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology, chemistry process control and software products and related services, which support the semiconductor ecosystem from R&D to final volume production. For IC manufacturing, our systems support the production of all chip types including advanced logic, DRAM, 3D NAND, power devices, MEMS, legacy design node chips and more. Our substrate manufacturing systems support the production of a broad range of wafer types and sizes including silicon, prime silicon SOI, sapphire, glass, wide bandgap substrates (e.g., SiC, GaN) and more. Our reticle systems support quality control during the manufacturing of optical and EUV reticle types. We also make products that support chemical/materials quality control, and process tool development and qualification. Our products and services for chip, wafer, reticle, packaging, solar, hard disk drive, original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and chemical/materials manufacturing are designed to provide comprehensive solutions that help our customers accelerate development and production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable product yields and improve their overall profitability. The Semiconductor Process Control segment offers a variety of solutions and products, including: Segment Technologies Products Semiconductor Process Control Chip Manufacturing: Defect Inspection and Review Inspection and review tools are used to identify, locate, characterize, review, and analyze defects on various surfaces of patterned and unpatterned wafers. 39xx Series, 29xx Series, C30x Series, eSL10, Voyager Series, 8 Series, Puma Series, CIRCL Series, Surfscan Series, Surfscan SP Ax Series, eDR Series. Chip Manufacturing: Metrology Metrology systems are used to measure pattern dimensions, film thickness(es), film stress, layer-to-layer alignment, pattern placement, surface topography and electro-optical properties for wafers. Archer Series, ATL Series, Axion Series, SpectraShape Series, SpectraFilm Series, Aleris Series, PWG Series, Therma-Probe Series, OmniMap RS-xxx Series, MicroSense product family, CAPRES product family. Chip Manufacturing: Chemistry Process Control Chemical process control equipment qualifies incoming supplies, manages tool inputs, adjusts chamber/bath conditions and monitors process waste. QualiSurf Series, Quali-Line Quanta Series, Quali-Line Prima Series, QualiLab Elite Series. Chip Manufacturing: In Situ Process Management Wired and wireless sensor wafers and reticles provide comprehensive data used to visualize, diagnose and control process conditions in the equipment used to manufacture chips and reticles. Additional wafer diagnostic solutions help troubleshoot and monitor materials handling to help detect and predict mechanical behaviors that may cause wafer damage. SensArray product family. Wafer Manufacturing: Defect Inspection and Review, Metrology, and In Situ Process Management Wafer defect inspection, review and metrology systems are used to help wafer/substrate manufacturers manage quality throughout the wafer fabrication process by detecting defects, characterizing surface quality and assessing wafer geometry. Surfscan Series, Surfscan SP Ax Series, eDR Series, WaferSight Series, MicroSense wafer geometry product family, SensArray product family, Candela Series, QualiSurf Series. 4 Table of Contents Reticle Manufacturing: Defect Inspection, Metrology and In Situ Process Management Reticle inspection and metrology systems help reticle blank, patterned optical reticle, patterned EUV reticle, and chip manufacturers identify defects, pattern placement errors, and process issues during reticle manufacturing. In addition to reducing yield risk during production, these systems also support outgoing and incoming reticle quality control. Teron SL6xx Series, Teron 6xx Series, TeraScan 5xx Series, X5.x Series, FlashScan Series, LMS IPRO Series, SensArray product family. Packaging Manufacturing: Wafer Inspection and Metrology, Chemistry Process Control, In Situ Process Management Wafer inspection and metrology systems for advanced wafer-level packaging help packaging manufacturers detect, resolve and monitor excursions to provide greater control of quality for improved device performance. Chemistry process monitoring systems analyze and monitor wet chemicals used in wafer-level packaging (WLP), panel-level packaging (PLP), and IC substrates. Kronos Series, CIRCL-AP, irArcher Series, PWG5 with XT Option, QualiSurf Series, Quali-Fill Libra Series, QualiLab Elite Series, Quali-Dose, SensArray product family. Semiconductor Software Solutions Software solutions centralize and analyze the data produced by inspection, metrology and process systems for chip, wafer, reticle and packaging manufacturing. These solutions provide run-time process control, defect excursion identification, process corrections and defect classification to accelerate yield learning rates and reduce production risk. Patterning simulation software allows researchers to evaluate advanced patterning technologies, such as EUV lithography and multiple patterning techniques. Klarity product family, 5D Analyzer, OVALiS, aiSIGHT, Anchor product family, RDC, FabVision Series, ProDATA, PROLITH, I-PAT, SPOT. KLA Pro Systems: Certified and Remanufactured Products Inspection and metrology systems support manufacture of larger design node chips and 200mm wafer manufacturing. Surfscan Series, 2835, 2367, ASET-F5x Pro, Archer Series. General Purpose/Lab Application Specialty Semiconductor Manufacturing, Benchtop Metrology, Surface Characterization, Material Strength Characterization and Electrical Property Measurement. Candela Series, HRP -260, Zeta Series, Tencor P Series, Nano Indenter Series, Alpha-Step Series, Filmetrics F Series, Filmetrics R Series, iMicro, iNano, Filmetrics Profilm3D Series, T150 UTM, NanoFlip, InSEM HT. The Specialty Semiconductor Process segment develops and sells advanced vacuum deposition and etching process tools, which are used by a broad range of specialty semiconductor customers, including manufacturers of MEMS, RF communication chips and power semiconductors for automotive and industrial applications. The Specialty Semiconductor Process segment offers a variety of solutions and products, including: Segment Technologies Products Specialty Semiconductor Process Specialty Semiconductor Manufacturing Etch, plasma dicing, deposition and other wafer processing technologies and solutions for the semiconductor and microelectronics industry. SPTS Omega Series, SPTS Sigma Series, SPTS Delta Series, Primaxx Series, Xactix Series, SPTS Mosaic Series, MVD Series. 5 Table of Contents The PCB and Component Inspection segment enables electronic device manufacturers to inspect, test and measure PCBs, IC substrates, flat panel displays (FPD) and packaged ICs to verify their quality, pattern the desired electronic circuitry on the relevant substrate and perform three-dimensional shaping of metalized circuits on multiple surfaces. The PCB and Component Inspection segment offers a variety of solutions and products, including: Segment Technologies Products PCB and Component Inspection PCB Direct imaging, inspection, optical shaping, inkjet and additive printing, UV laser drilling as well as computer-aided manufacturing and engineering solutions for the PCB and IC substrate market. Orbotech Corus Series, Orbotech Infinitum Series, Orbotech Nuvogo Fine/ Nuvogo Series, Orbotech Diamond Series, Orbotech Ultra Dimension Series, Orbotech Ultra Fusion/ Fusion Series, Orbotech Discovery II Series, Orbotech Precise Series, Orbotech Ultra PerFix/ PerFix Series, Orbotech Neos Series, Orbotech Sprint Series, Orbotech Magna Series, Orbotech Jetext Series, Orbotech Apeiron Series, Frontline product family. Display Inspection and electrical testing systems to identify and classify defects, as well as systems to repair defects for the display market. Castor, Orbotech Sirius Series, Orbotech Flare Series, Orbotech Array Checker Series, Orbotech Ignite Series, Orbotech Prism Series, Orbotech OASIS. Component Inspection and metrology systems for quality control and yield improvement in advanced and traditional semiconductor packaging markets. ICOS F26x, ICOS Tx Series, Zeta-5xx/6xx. Services Our service programs enable our customers in all business sectors to maintain the high performance and productivity of our products through a flexible array of service options. Whether a manufacturing site is producing wafers, reticles, ICs, FPD or PCB products, our highly trained service teams collaborate with customers to determine the best products and services to meet technology and business requirements. Backlog Our backlog, which represents our remaining performance obligation (RPO) to deliver products and services, totaled $9.83 billion and $11.40 billion as of June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and primarily consists of sales orders where written customer requests have been received. We expect to recognize approximately 59% to 64% of these performance obligations as revenue in the next 12 months, 29% to 34% in the subsequent 12 months and the remainder thereafter, but this estimate is subject to constant change. The timing of revenue recognition of our RPO is evaluated quarterly and is largely driven by multiple variables, many of which are beyond our control, such as: the readiness of customer fabs, end market needs for capacity, changes in the estimated versus actual start time of customers projects, timing of delivery and installation dates, supply chain constraints and changes in regulations. The estimated amount and timing of revenue recognition are also dependent on the following: Macro-economic factors and the effect on customer behavior: Our customers are currently purchasing equipment from us with lead times that are longer than our historical experience. As customers try to balance the evolution of their technological, production or market needs with the timing and content of orders placed with us, there is increased risk of order modifications, pushouts or cancellations. Export restrictions: Commerce and BIS have mandated the following BIS Rules in October 2022 and October 2023: Requiring an export license from BIS for sale of anything to an entity on the U.S. Entity List of China-based entities, which is a list of parties that are generally ineligible to receive U.S.-regulated products and services without prior licensing, as well as for the use of certain semiconductor capital equipment based on U.S. technology to manufacture products connected to certain entities on the U.S. Entity List. Requiring an export license for sales to China-based customers that are military end users or engaged in military end uses, and for certain U.S. semiconductor and high-performance computing technology (including wafer fab equipment), for the use of such technology for certain end uses in China, and for the provision of support by U.S. persons to certain advanced IC fabs located in China. 6 Table of Contents We are taking appropriate measures to comply with these regulations and are applying for export licenses, when required, although there can be no assurance that export licenses will be granted. The possible negative effects on our future business of export licenses not being granted could be material and could result in a substantial reduction to our RPO or require us to return substantial deposits received from customers in China for purchase orders previously placed. Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies We perform system design, assembly and testing in-house and utilize an outsourcing strategy to manufacture components and major subassemblies. Our in-house manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling and testing components and subassemblies acquired from third-party vendors and integrating those subassemblies into our finished products. Our principal manufacturing activities occur in the U.S., Singapore, Israel, Germany, United Kingdom, Italy and China. Our supply chain strategy incorporates considerations for ethical labor practices, responsible minerals sourcing, and Responsible Business Alliance and SEMI guidelines, and there are increasing regulatory expectations on the environmental, social and/or geographic provenance of materials or components that may at times require us to incorporate further such considerations to our supply chain strategy. Some critical parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) that we use are designed by us and manufactured by suppliers in accordance with our specifications, while other parts are standard commercial products. We use numerous vendors to supply parts and raw materials to manufacture and support our products. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that these parts and raw materials are available from multiple suppliers, this is not always possible. Certain parts and raw materials included in our systems may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Through our business interruption planning, we endeavor to minimize the risk of production interruption by, among other things, monitoring the financial condition of suppliers of key parts and raw materials, providing financial support and incentives to encourage vendors to increase capacity when required, identifying (but not necessarily qualifying) possible alternative suppliers of such parts and materials, and ensuring adequate inventories of key parts and raw materials are available to maintain manufacturing schedules. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole and limited source suppliers, in some cases the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources, or disruptions within our suppliers often complex supply chains, could disrupt scheduled deliveries to customers, damage customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competition The worldwide market for technologically advanced process control, process-enabling and yield management solutions used by semiconductor and electronics manufacturers is highly competitive, with important competitive factors including system performance, ease of use, reliability, technical service and support, and overall cost of ownership. However, we believe that, while the competitive factors listed are important, the customers overriding requirement is for systems that easily and effectively incorporate automated capabilities into their existing development and manufacturing processes to enhance productivity, improve yields and reduce waste. To remain competitive, we use significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product R&D. In each of our product markets, we have many competitors, including companies such as Applied Materials, Inc., ASML Holding N.V., Hitachi High-Technologies Corporation, Onto Innovation, Inc. and Lasertec, Inc., some of which may have greater financial, research, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved pricing and performance characteristics. We may also face future competition from new market entrants overseas or domestically. We maintain our market position by building long-term relationships with our customers to meet their dynamic needs, as well as anticipating future market demands and enabling our customers to accelerate adoption and production of new technologies, as discussed further in the Industry section of this Item 1. Management believes that we are well positioned in the market with our industry-leading portfolio of products and services. However, any loss of competitive position could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenue, gross margin and market share. Should this occur, it could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions We continuously evaluate strategic acquisitions and alliances to expand our technologies, product offerings and distribution capabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with integration of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The inability to manage these risks effectively could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Patents and Other Proprietary Rights We protect our proprietary technology through reliance on a variety of IP laws, including patent, copyright and trade secret. We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and abroad and intend to continue pursuing the legal protection of our technology through IP laws. In addition, from time to time we acquire license rights under U.S. and foreign patents and other proprietary rights of third parties, and we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants, and through other security measures. Although we consider patents and other IP significant to our business, no single patent, copyright or trade secret is essential to us as a whole or to any of our business segments. No assurance can be given that patents will be issued on any of our applications, that license assignments will be made as anticipated, or that our patents, licenses or other proprietary rights will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. No assurance can be given that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology or that competitors will not be able to independently develop similar or functionally competitive technology. Government Regulations We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including, but not limited to, laws, rules and regulations related to anti-corruption, antitrust, data privacy requirements, employment, environmental, foreign exchange controls, health and safety requirements, immigration, import/export requirements, IP and tax. Any failure to comply with laws and regulations may subject us to a range of consequences including fines, suspension of certain of our business activities, limitations on our ability to sell our products, obligations to remediate in the case of environmental contamination, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws and regulations could require us to invest in potentially costly pollution control equipment, alter our manufacturing processes or use substitute materials. Our failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations could subject us to future liabilities. For information about risks related to government regulations, see Backlog Export restrictions above and Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives KLA strives to proactively manage and address the ESG topics most important to our stakeholders. Guided by our values, we have integrated ESG considerations into many of our business practices and policies, and work together with our customers, peers, partners and suppliers to promote improvement in human rights, labor, environment, health and safety, anti-corruption, ethics and management system standards within our operations and our supply chain. Our ESG initiatives are another way KLA seeks to deliver long-term value for our stockholders and exemplify our core values. For more information on our core values, refer to the Human Capital Management section of this Item 1. We have an ESG Steering Committee composed of global leaders within the organization that implements and executes our ESG strategy under the oversight of the KLA executive team and the Board of Directors. Training and awareness are central to the strategys success. As part of its responsibilities, the steering committee partners with policy owners to promote KLA's ESG goals within all KLA policies, such as our Standards of Business Conduct. Our ESG strategy is organized into four pillars based on the areas where we believe we have the greatest opportunities to make positive impacts: Advancing Innovation: As a technological innovator, we seek to deliver solutions for our customers to increase production yields, reduce waste, and meet their own profitability and sustainability goals. Refer to Research and Development and Patents and Other Proprietary Rights of this Item 1 for more information on our efforts for advancing innovation. In addition to legal protections as already discussed above, we also work to protect our operations by significantly focusing on cybersecurity. We have developed and implemented a cybersecurity risk management process intended to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our critical systems and information. For more information on our cybersecurity efforts, initiatives and governance, refer to Item 1C Cybersecurity in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Advancing Stewardship: We work across our global footprint to shape a more sustainable future. As part of our drive to be better, we have established environmental sustainability goals. Our goals include using 100% renewable electricity across our global operations by 2030, reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our 2021 baseline by 50% by 2030 and achieving net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2050. In 2023, we announced that we are submitting our climate goals, including a goal for Scope 3 emissions reductions, to the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) for validation, which was recently received. Our company-wide Environmental Management Policy establishes a commitment to complying with applicable environmental laws and standards across company locations globally. In 2023, we established a global waste and water policy to guide our efforts in 8 Table of Contents these spaces as well. KLA is committed to protecting and respecting our environment and energy resources throughout our operations for future generations, and follows the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, transparently reporting climate-related governance, strategy, risk management, metrics and targets to our stakeholders. We continue to monitor various climate-related risks even if some are not currently expected to have a material impact on KLAs business or financial condition for assessed time horizons. Advancing Opportunity: Our goal is to work together to harness the untapped human potential of a more just and inclusive world. Refer to the Human Capital Management and Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies sections of this Item 1 for information on our inclusion, human rights, health and safety initiatives. Advancing Leadership: We aim to empower todays as well as tomorrows leaders by infusing our values into everything we do. Refer to the Human Capital Management and Government Regulations sections of this Item 1 for examples of our employee-centric culture and our commitment to operating our business responsibly in compliance with regulations and best practices worldwide. For more information on ESG, see KLAs 2022 Global Impact Report on our website; however, this citation is provided solely for informational purposes and the content of KLAs 2022 Global Impact Report is expressly not incorporated by reference into this filing. We include details in our 2022 Global Impact Report that are not included in this Form 10-K because we seek to be responsive to various areas of interest of our stakeholders; however, such information generally does not, and is not expected to, have a material effect on our capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. In addition, no assurance can be given that our ESG initiatives will have the intended results or be able to be completed as currently envisioned, whether due to cost, feasibility or other constraints. Our 2023 Global Impact Report is expected to be published in the first quarter of fiscal 2025. Human Capital Management At KLA, our people drive our success, and we celebrate the diversity of backgrounds and experiences that all employees bring to the table. We recognize that our competitive advantage is our people and the technology they develop. We believe it is critical to attract, motivate and retain a dedicated, talented, and innovative team of employees who exhibit our core values. As talent and retention continue to be a challenging issue for many companies, we strive to work proactively to address these concerns. We also aim to support employees personal and professional growth. Our talent development programs focus on developing the whole person through comprehensive training offerings, employee engagement programs and health and wellness activities. We embrace our responsibility to lead through exceptional training programs and professional development and through enabling our employees to be safe, secure, healthy and feel included and empowered to bring their whole self to work. Our Core Values At KLA, our core values demonstrating perseverance; striving to be better; being honest, forthright, and consistent; building high-performing teams; and being indispensable to our customers serve as a foundation for our relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders and reflect a commitment to ethical business practices and corporate citizenship in the places where we do business. Our Workforce As of June 30, 2024, we had approximately 15,000 regular full-time employees and approximately 230 part-time and temporary employees in facilities located in 18 regions. Approximately 31% of our regular full-time employees are located in the U.S., 21% in Europe and Middle Eastern countries and 48% in Asia Pacific and Japan, with approximately 20% engaged in manufacturing, 27% in R&D, 28% in customer service, 5% in sales and marketing and 20% in other roles. Except for our employees in Belgium (where a trade union delegation has been recognized) and our employees in the German operations of our MIE and Laser Imaging Systems business units (who are represented by employee works councils), none of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced work stoppages and believe that our employee relations are good. In fiscal year 2024, our overall employee voluntary turnover rate was 3.7%. Compensation and Benefits At KLA, our talent is the heartbeat of our organization. We value our employees as individuals and aim to recognize and support their needs so they can bring their best selves to work every day. We engage with our employees about what they need to be successful in and out of the workplace. We seek to achieve our objective of attracting, retaining, and motivating our workforce by linking a significant portion of compensation to Company and business unit performance. We seek competitiveness and fairness in total compensation relative 9 Table of Contents to peer comparisons and internal equity. We offer a long-term benefit program to a broad base of employees to share in our success through restricted stock units (RSU) and an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). We also provide incentive bonus or profit sharing to employees. In addition to providing our employees with competitive compensation packages, we have built out a robust suite of benefits to help foster the well-being of all employees. Our benefits are designed to meet the needs of employees and their families. Benefits are inclusive of leave programs (e.g., paid time off, parental leave and bereavement leave), health coverage, contributions to retirement savings and access to employee assistance and work-life programs. We offer programs and opportunities to employees to help improve their health and well-being. KLAs virtual and in-person well-being course offerings span physical, financial, and mental health. We offer in-person and virtual workout classes. We hold online fitness and well-being classes that include body-tune-up, yoga and nutrition as well as the maintenance of life balance and the importance of sleep, hydration, and relaxation. Throughout our sites, we host a series of events and challenges, both virtually and in person, to encourage our employees to stay active. We offer employees the opportunity to pursue coaching and therapy sessions through our Employee Assistance Program, and we host seminars on financial literacy and planning and other wellness topics. We expanded hybrid work options and telecommuting. We support working parents faced with challenges balancing working from home and caring for their families needs. Our well-being programs help employees manage and improve their physical, financial, and mental health and build healthy lifestyle habits in engaging ways. A Culture of Inclusion The journey to becoming a truly inclusive and diverse global organization takes time, and we are deeply committed to this path. At KLA, Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) is a shared aspiration, commitment and responsibility, as well as a direct expression of our core values. In our drive to be better, we seek to create an increasingly diverse workforce. We do this because KLA, like society, benefits when we work with diverse teams to harness varying perspectives and talents in the furtherance of humanity. KLA is an equal opportunity employer and we follow affirmative action requirements applicable to federal contractors. We continue to look for ways to recruit, develop and retain a more diverse workforce with a focus on groups underrepresented in the technology field. We continue to provide training with a focus on inclusion. Managers and employees are introduced to models of intentional inclusion that emphasize key leadership qualities. We continued our campaign on Inclusion For All through fiscal 2024. This campaign engages all employees in KLAs I&D efforts by providing tips on everyday actions that can have large impacts. This campaign supplements the formal training we offer around I&D and the work of our Employee Resource Groups (ERG). KLA currently has four ERGs with chapters around the world to engage employees in service of our I&D and business goals, fostering an inclusive environment. WISE (Women in STEM, Empowered), is an employee-led group that includes people of all genders, who have joined to support the professional growth of women at KLA. WISE has chapters in the U.S., Israel, Europe and India with more chapters forming in other regions. Konexin is our Hispanic/Latinx ERG where employees can interact and innovate through cultural sharing and understanding of the Hispanic/Latinx community. BELIEVE (Black Employees Leading in Inclusion, Excellence, Values and Education) supports the recruitment and advancement of Black talent while also promoting cultural awareness, understanding and allyship of the Black community. Both Konexin and BELIEVE have chapters throughout the U.S. Our fourth ERG is PRISM (where Pride, Respect, Inclusion and Solidarity Meet), and was started as a global ERG. PRISMs mission is to amplify KLAs commitment to equality and inclusion by encouraging a safe and open working environment for LGBTQ+ employees and allies. Celebrating our diversity through formal observations of cultural holidays is another way we advance inclusion at KLA. These celebrations are an important way for KLA employees to learn about different traditions, cultural norms and our own employees experiences with different cultures. As of June 30, 2024, our global workforce was 81% male and 19% female, and 9% of our workforce in the U.S. was composed of Black or African American, and/or Hispanic/Latinx employees. At the end of fiscal 2024, 30% of our Board of Directors were female and 20% of our Board of Directors were underrepresented minorities under the listing rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Learning and Development We offer our employees opportunities to advance their careers at KLA. We emphasize stretch assignments, on-the-job development, as well as classroom and online training. Our employees have access to a wide range of programs, workshops, classes and resources to help them excel in their careers and share what they know with others. Our performance management process includes performance feedback against goals, a review of key competencies that are needed to be successful at KLA and career development discussions. 10 Table of Contents We emphasize frequent 1-on-1 meetings between managers and employees and regular coaching and feedback sessions. Through coaching and mentorship programs, our employees are inspired to push the boundaries of their comfort zones and seek creative solutions. If our employees pursue external learning opportunities and education, we support that too, through tuition reimbursement. Through our partnerships with Stanford University and the University of Michigan, employees can pursue advanced degrees in engineering that are customized for KLA, and the skills and competencies required to support our customers. We also offer a competitive student loan reimbursement program in the U.S. We have a robust succession planning process especially targeted at director level positions and above. Additionally, our Values in Action training, which was also targeted at the director level and above, provided further guidance on our values, business ethics and inclusion and diversity. Most of our employees are also required to take annual training courses and regular certifications related to their work, including those pertaining to the environment, data privacy and workplace health and safety. Employee Engagement We conduct regular employee surveys to check in with our global workforce and obtain input on several topics. The feedback we receive from these surveys helps us assess employee sentiment, identify areas of improvement and guides our decision-making as it relates to people management. In addition, our executives conduct regular quarterly webcasts that enable all employees to engage with senior leaders and ask questions in an open Q&A session. As we emerged from the global pandemic, many employees continued to seek connections. Through our Employee Engagement Survey, we continued to identify the top priorities in a post-pandemic world. We created action plans and involved our workforce in developing potential solutions to address these top concerns. We created initiatives including global manager communications, individual and team coaching and a training course titled Engaging with Engagement. Employee Health and Safety The health and safety of our employees is paramount to our success. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all employees. We accomplish this through strict compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding workplace safety, including recognition and control of workplace hazards, tracking injury and illness rates, utilizing a global travel health program and maintaining detailed emergency and disaster recovery plans. A legacy of the COVID-19 pandemic has been the development and implementation of a global approach to Employee Health and Safety (EHS) with strong collaboration across the regions. This has resulted in the adoption of best practices for each of our sites, improving business resiliency and the health and safety of our employees worldwide. We continue to monitor developments in our communities to help us be able to adjust practices and controls as needed. Our goal is always zero accidents across our facilities, and to achieve that, we conduct proactive risk assessments and audits to constantly improve our efforts. We implemented a global standard for our incidents to ensure consistency across our regions, and continually outperform industry averages for injury rates. We made a commitment to globalize our ISO 45001 (the internationally recognized standard for Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) Management Systems) certification and expand our ISO 14001 (the internationally recognized standard for Environmental Management Systems (EMS)) certification beyond our larger sites. In 2023, we continued to make progress expanding our ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 programs across our main production and R&D facilities. As of year-end 2023, our sites in Singapore; Newport, Wales; Milpitas, California; and Migdal Haemek, Israel are certified to ISO 14001 and our Wales site is also certified to ISO 45001. We are committed to reducing safety risks across business units and at corporate sites worldwide. We revised our approach to risk assessments to risk rank our own operations. We are utilizing this system not only to measure our own performance, but also to help improve the performance of our supply chain and customers. All new hires are required to complete a health and safety training program. In addition, our service technicians are required to achieve and maintain role-specific safety training certifications. Our excellent safety record, which is less than half of the semiconductor industry average, is a tribute to our employees efforts, the breadth and depth of our training programs and our dedication to safety policy management. For more information on Human Capital, see KLAs 2022 Global Impact Report on our website; however, this citation is provided solely for informational purposes, and the content of KLAs 2022 Global Impact Report is expressly not incorporated by reference into this filing. 11 Table of Contents Glossary This section provides definitions for certain industry and technical terms commonly used in our business, that are used elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: compound semiconductor A semiconductor formed from chemical elements in two or more different groups in the periodic table (ex. III-V). The composition of these materials influences their properties, resulting in different performance than silicon when used in electronics. Primary examples include SiC, GaN, gallium arsenide (GaAs), and indium phosphide (InP). design rules Rules that set forth the allowable dimensions of particular features used in the design and layout of ICs. die A single semiconductor chip on a wafer. epitaxial silicon (epi) A substrate technology based on growing a crystalline silicon layer on top of a silicon wafer. The added layer, where the structure and orientation are matched to those of the silicon wafer, includes dopants (impurities) to imbue the substrate with special electronic properties. etching A process step in which layers of material are removed from a semiconductor wafer in a specific pattern. excursion For a manufacturing step or process, a deviation from normal operating conditions that can lead to decreased performance or yield of the final product. fab The main manufacturing facility for processing semiconductor wafers. flat panel display (FPD) A display appliance that uses a thin panel design. Also includes flexible displays. geometry The surface shape of an object, such as the 3D shape of a semiconductor device structure or the shape of base or patterned wafers. integrated circuit substrate (IC substrate) A base board used for providing support inside a package and connecting the chip to the printed circuit board. in situ Of processing steps or tests, done without moving the wafer. Latin for in original position. ingot A piece of pure metal intended to be processed. In semiconductors, a silicon ingot is typically created in such a way that slicing cross-sections creates bare wafers. interconnect A highly conductive material, usually copper or aluminum, which carries electrical signals to different parts of a die. internet of things (IoT) A network of devices with the ability to transfer data without human interaction. light emitting diode (LED) A semiconductor device that releases electromagnetic radiation (light) when current flows through it. The bandgap of the semiconductor material determines the wavelength (color) of the light emitted. lithography A process in which a masked pattern is projected onto a photosensitive coating that covers a substrate. metrology The science of measurement to determine dimensions, quantity or capacity. In the semiconductor industry, typical measurements include critical dimension, overlay and film thickness. microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) Micron-sized mechanical devices powered by electricity, created using processes similar to those used to manufacture IC devices. 12 Table of Contents micron A metric unit of linear measure that equals 1/1,000,000 meter (10-6m), or 10,000 angstroms (the diameter of a human hair is approximately 75 microns). patterned For semiconductor manufacturing and industries using similar processing technologies, substrates that have electronic circuits (transistors, interconnects, etc.) fabricated on the surface. photovoltaic The property of semiconductor devices to create electric current through exposure to sunlight. printed circuit board (PCB) A board used to mechanically support and electrically connect various electrical and mechanical components. process control The ability to maintain specifications of products and equipment during manufacturing operations. reticle or mask A very flat glass plate that contains the patterns to be reproduced on a wafer. silicon on insulator (SOI) A substrate technology comprised of a thin top silicon layer separated from the silicon substrate by a thin insulating layer of glass or silicon dioxide, used to improve performance and reduce the power consumption of IC circuits. substrate A wafer or other material on which layers of various materials are added during the process of manufacturing semiconductor devices (circuits), FPDs or PCBs. unpatterned For semiconductor manufacturing and industries using similar processing technologies, substrates that do not have electronic circuits (transistors, interconnects, etc.) fabricated on the surface. These can include bare silicon wafers, other bare substrates or substrates on which blanket films have been deposited. yield management The ability of a semiconductor manufacturer to oversee, manage and control its manufacturing processes so as to maximize the percentage of manufactured wafers or die that conform to pre-determined specifications. __________________ The definitions above are from internal sources, as well as online semiconductor dictionaries such as https://www.semiconductors.org/semiconductors-101/frequently asked questions/. Such citation is for informational purposes only and the content referenced is not otherwise incorporated by reference herein. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS A description of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is provided below. Risk Factors Summary The following summarizes the most material risks that make an investment in our securities risky or speculative. If any of the following risks occur or persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed and the price of our common stock could significantly decline. Commercial, Operational, Financial and Regulatory Risks Our vulnerability to a weakening in the condition of the financial markets and the global economy; Risks related to our international operations, such as tariffs or similar trade impairments, and longer payment cycles or collection difficulties associated with international sales; Laws, rules, regulations or other orders that may limit our ability to sell our products or provide service on products previously sold to certain customers; IP disputes can be expensive and could result in an inability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions; Increasing attention to ESG matters, including any targets or other ESG initiatives, could result in additional costs or risks or adversely impact our business; We may be unable to attract, onboard and retain key personnel; Reliance on third-party service providers could result in disruptions if such third parties cannot perform services for us in a timely manner; Cybersecurity incidents could result in the loss of valuable information or assets or subject us to costly disruption, remediation, regulatory investigations, litigation and reputational damage; We may face disruptions if we cannot access critical information in a timely manner due to system failures; We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or fail to successfully integrate our acquisitions; Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, acts of terrorism or war or other catastrophic events, and the lack of insurance thereof, could significantly disrupt our operations, including affecting the global supply chain, for lengthy periods of time; We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and the market values of our portfolio investments; We are subject to tax and regulatory compliance audits; Economic, political or other conditions in the jurisdictions where we earn profits can impact the tax laws and taxes we pay in those jurisdictions, subsequently impacting our effective tax rate, cash flows and results of operations; Increased compliance costs with federal securities laws, rules, and regulations, as well as NASDAQ requirements; and Changes in accounting pronouncements and laws could have unforeseen effects. Industry Risks We may not be able to keep pace with trends and technological changes in the industries in which we operate; We have a highly concentrated customer base; Prevailing local and global economic conditions may negatively affect the purchasing decisions of our customers; and We are exposed to risks related to the use of AI by us and our competitors. Business Model and Capital Structure Risks We may not be able to maintain our technology advantage or protect our proprietary rights; We may not be able to compete with new products introduced by our competitors; We may not receive components necessary to build our products in a timely manner; We may fail to operate our business in a manner consistent with our business plan; We may fail to comply with the covenants in our Revolving Credit Facility (defined below) and Senior Notes (defined below), which could impair our ability to borrow needed funds, or require us to repay debt sooner than we planned; We may not have sufficient financial resources to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due, and our leveraged capital structure may divert resources from operations and other corporate uses; 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts; Risks related to our commercial terms and conditions, including our indemnification of third parties, as well as the performance of our products; Our government funding for R&D is subject to termination, audit and any further penalties; We may incur significant restructuring charges or other asset impairment charges or inventory write-offs; We are subject to risks related to receivables factoring arrangements, and compliance risk of certain settlement agreements with the government; and Our Amended and Restated Bylaws (Bylaws) designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole forum for certain actions, which may discourage claims against the Company. For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, see below. Commercial, Operational, Financial and Regulatory Risks We are exposed to risks associated with a weakening in the condition of the financial markets and the global economy. Demand for our products is ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses. Economic uncertainty frequently leads to reduced consumer and business spending, and can cause our customers to decrease, cancel or delay their equipment and service orders. The tightening of credit markets, rising interest rates and concerns regarding the availability of credit can make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. Reduced demand, combined with delays in our customers ability to obtain financing (or the unavailability of such financing), has, at times in the past, adversely affected our product and service sales and revenues and, therefore, has harmed our business and operating results, and our operating results and financial condition may again be adversely impacted if economic conditions decline from their current levels. In addition, a decline in the condition of the global financial markets could adversely impact the market values or liquidity of our investments. Our investment portfolio includes corporate and government securities, money market funds and other types of debt and equity investments. Although we believe our portfolio continues to be comprised of sound investments due to the quality and (where applicable) credit ratings of such investments, a decline in the capital and financial markets or rising interest rates would adversely impact the market value of our investments and their liquidity. If the market value of such investments were to decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from difficult macroeconomic conditions, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. A majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the U.S., and we maintain significant operations outside the U.S. We are exposed to numerous risks as a result of the international nature of our business and operations. We expect these conditions to continue in the foreseeable future. Managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents a number of challenges, including, but not limited to: Global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade policies, including the ability to obtain required import and export licenses, trade sanctions, tariffs and international trade disputes; Political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within countries that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies, including customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors; Ineffective or inadequate legal protection of IPrights in certain countries; Managing cultural diversity and organizational alignment; Exposure to the unique characteristics of each region in the global market, which can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period; Periodic local or international economic downturns; Potential adverse tax consequences, including withholding tax rules that may limit the repatriation of our earnings, and higher effective income tax rates in foreign countries where we do business; Compliance with customs regulations in the countries in which we do business; 15 Table of Contents Existing and potentially new tariffs or other trade restrictions and barriers (including those applied to our products, spare parts and services, or to parts and supplies that we purchase); Political instability, geopolitical tensions, natural disasters, legal or regulatory changes, acts of war such as the wars between Russia and Ukraine or Israel and Hamas and further escalation thereof, or terrorism in regions where we, our customers or our suppliers have operations or where we or they do business; Rising inflation and fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates may adversely impact our ability to compete on price with local providers or the value of revenues we generate from our international business. Although we attempt to manage some of our near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate; Slowing growth, increased unemployment changes in fiscal and/or monetary policies in the countries where we operate; Our ability to receive prepayments for certain of our products and services sold in certain jurisdictions. These prepayments increase our cash flows for the quarter in which they are received. If our practice of requiring prepayments in those jurisdictions changes or deteriorates, our cash flows would be harmed; Required refunds for customer prepayments resulting from our inability to ship to certain jurisdictions, especially for customers in China, as described in more detail below. If we are required to make such refunds, our cash flows could be negatively affected; Longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the U.S.; Difficulties in managing foreign distributors (including monitoring and ensuring our distributors compliance with applicable laws); and Inadequate protection or enforcement of our IP and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions. Any of the factors above could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. Over the past several years, there have been a variety of rules and regulations issued by BIS that have had an impact on our ability to sell certain products and provide certain services to certain customers in China. These rules and regulations may significantly harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods, unless we are able to obtain required licenses. We maintain significant operations outside the United States, and existing and evolving trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and other governments could significantly disrupt our global operations. The U.S. government has tightened export controls for commodities, software, and technology (collectively, items) destined to China over the past several years. These controls have included, for example, restrictions on exporting certain items to military end users and for military end uses, the addition of numerous entities to the U.S. Entity List (a list of parties that are generally ineligible to receive U.S.-regulated items without prior licensing from BIS), and the creation of new licensing requirements that apply to the export, re-export, and transfer of certain foreign-made items that are the direct product of U.S. origin technology or produced by a plant or major component of a plant that itself is the direct product of U.S. origin technology and which are destined to Huawei or its affiliates and other specified companies on the U.S. Entity List. In October 2022, BIS published the 2022 BIS Rules (the 2022 BIS Rules) that introduce restrictions related to semiconductor, semiconductor manufacturing, supercomputer, and advanced computing items and end uses. These rules impose restrictions on our ability to sell, ship and support certain equipment and otherwise conduct business with certain counterparties, primarily including China-based companies involved in advanced semiconductor manufacturing. Further, the 2022 BIS Rules impose restrictions on the activities of U.S. persons with respect to certain items that are not subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), which departs from BIS typical practice of controlling items that are subject to the EAR, and could further restrict our ability to conduct business in China. In October 2023, BIS issued the 2023 BIS Rules (the 2023 BIS Rules) designed to update export controls on advanced computing semiconductors and semiconductor manufacturing equipment, as well as items that support supercomputing applications and end-uses, to certain D1, D4 and/or D5 countries in Supplement No. 1 of Part 740 of the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, including China. The 2023 BIS Rules adjust the parameters included in the 2022 BIS Rules that determine whether an advanced computing chip is restricted and impose new measures to address risks of circumvention of the controls established by the 2022 BIS Rules. The 2023 BIS Rules are very complex and, in January 2024, KLA, among other companies, submitted comments to BIS on the 2023 BIS Rules. BIS could revise or expand the 2023 BIS Rules in response to public comments. Likewise, BIS may issue guidance clarifying the scope of the rules. Such revisions, expansions or guidance could change the impact of the rules for our business. Commerce has also added, and may continue to add, China-based entities to the U.S. Entity List, imposing export restrictions to entities that could disrupt or prevent our product shipment, and further disrupt our revenue recognition and business operations, and our ability to support our customers in China. 16 Table of Contents These rules and regulations may significantly harm our business unless we are able to obtain required licenses. We will continue to apply for export licenses, when required, in an effort to avoid disruption to our and our customers operations, but there can be no assurance that export licenses applied for by either us or our customers, now or in the future, will be granted. To the extent BIS does issue licenses to us or to our customers, such licenses may have a short duration or require us to satisfy various conditions. If pending and future export license applications are not granted, or additional restrictions are imposed, or if regulators adopt new interpretations of existing regulations, the potential impact on us could be material by disrupting our supply chain and product shipment, impairing our ability to complete product development in a timely manner, or our ability to support existing customers of covered products or supply customers of covered products outside the impacted regions, and requiring us to transition certain operations out of one or more of the identified countries. Failure to obtain export licenses could also harm our RPO, requiring us to return substantial deposits received from customers in China for purchase orders, and/or further limiting our ability to meet our contractual obligations and sell our products or provide services to our customers in China. We may lose revenue in future periods related to anticipated sales to customers in China unless we are able to replace their orders with other customer orders for which either a license has been obtained or is not required. Our revenue from sales of products and provision of services to customers in China was 43%, 27% and 29% for fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Additionally, the Chinese government has adopted, and may further adopt, new regulations, in response to U.S. government actions, which could adversely affect our ability to do business in China. We have