Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we do not currently believe to be material. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our Series A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. You should not interpret our disclosure of any of the following risks to imply that such risks have not already materialized. Certain statements contained in the risk factors described below are forward-looking statements. See the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for more information. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our rapid historical revenue growth is not indicative of our future revenue growth, and we may not be able to sustain our historical revenue growth rate, in the near term and in the future. We have experienced rapid revenue growth in recent periods. Our revenue was $698.1 million, $472.7 million, and $290.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively, representing a growth rate of 47.7% in 2023 and 62.7% in 2022. Our rapid revenue growth has been driven by increases in our customer count, growth of existing customers, our expansion into international markets, our sales to mid-market businesses, and the cross-selling of our SMS offering alongside our data platform and email offering. In addition, we implemented a price increase in September 2022, which positively increased revenue growth in 2022. This price increase also impacted the various measures we use to assess our usage and subscription levels based on revenue, such as NRR and our revenue growth rate, and following its implementation, those measures experienced corresponding increases as a result. As we have reached the one year anniversary of this price increase, these measures have seen a corresponding decrease. We anticipate that our revenue growth rate will decelerate over time as a result of a variety of factors, including the maturation of our business, and you should not rely on our historical revenue growth as an indication of our future performance. Overall growth of our revenue depends on several factors, including our ability to: expand subscriptions to our platform for our existing customers; increase the number of products we sell; improve the functionality of our products and our platform and achieve and/or maintain market acceptance for them; retain existing customers; attract new customers; succeed in selling our products in new verticals and in markets outside the United States; keep pace with technological developments; price our platform subscriptions competitively; 19 Table of Contents increase pricing on sales of our products, which may differ from product to product; provide our customers with support that meets their needs; successfully identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform; and increase awareness of our brand on a global basis and successfully compete with other companies. We may not successfully accomplish any of these objectives. If we do not, or if the assumptions that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our market, or if we are unable to maintain our revenue growth for any reason, including the reasons listed above, it may be difficult to maintain profitability, the trading price of our Series A common stock may be volatile, demand for our products and our platform could decline, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business has experienced rapid growth, and if we fail to effectively manage our growth or anticipated growth, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth in our business since inception, and we may continue to experience rapid growth. Our headcount has grown from 1,544 employees as of December 31, 2022 to 1,815 employees as of December 31, 2023. In addition, we have been expanding our international operations since 2019. We opened offices in the United Kingdom and Australia in 2019 and 2022, respectively. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of customers using our platform, including the number of international customers, which increased from approximately 61,000 on December 31, 2022 to approximately 76,000 on December 31, 2023. We plan to continue to expand our international operations in the future. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of products and features we offer (such as adding SMS and push offerings alongside our data platform and email offering) and the usage and amount of data that our platform and associated infrastructure support. This growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our operational infrastructure, financial resources, corporate culture, and management team. In addition, our organizational structure has become more complex over time. In order to manage these increasing complexities, we will need to continue to scale and adapt our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial operational, financial, and management resources before our revenue increases and without any assurances that our revenue will increase. In order to successfully manage our future growth and manage our business effectively, we will need to continue to improve our operating and administrative systems, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and internal processes. Continued growth could challenge our ability to develop and improve our operational, financial, and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures, recruit, train, and retain highly skilled personnel in a timely manner or at all, and maintain user satisfaction. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as we grow, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, as our customer base continues to grow, we will need to expand our account management and customer service teams and continue to scale our platform. If we are not able to continue to provide high levels of customer service, our reputation could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have a limited operating history in a rapidly changing industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and increases the risk of your investment. We were founded and launched our platform in 2012. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for future growth. Our historical growth should not be considered indicative of our future performance. We have encountered 20 Table of Contents and will encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as risks and uncertainties related to: retention of customers; adding new customers, particularly in the mid-market and enterprise categories; competition; our ability to control costs, particularly our operating expenses; network outages or security breaches and any associated expenses; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; executing acquisitions and integrating the acquired businesses, technologies, products, and other assets; and general economic and political conditions. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and if we do not compete effectively with established companies or new market entrants, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We face competition from a number of companies, including Adobe, Salesforce, Mailchimp, and Braze. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: fast time-to-value and ROI for customers; ease of deployment, implementation, and use; unified data architecture, with the ability to synchronize unaggregated, historical customer profile data with real-time event data in a single system-of-record; integrations with third-party applications, data sources, and open-source technologies; breadth and depth of features and functionality; quality and accuracy of data and predictive intelligence; ability to support multiple use cases and verticals; strength of sales & marketing and partnership efforts; market vision and product strategy; pace of innovation; brand awareness and reputation; performance, scalability, security, and reliability; and quality of service and customer satisfaction. Many of our current and potential competitors have or may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. They may secure better terms from partners, adopt more aggressive or alternative pricing 21 Table of Contents policies, or devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, sales, marketing, and customer service. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, and adopt more aggressive or alternative pricing policies which may allow them to attract customers or partners. For example, for our SMS offering, we do not currently separate carrier fees from the fees that our customers pay for our product. In contrast, some of our competitors separate carrier fees from their product fees, which may create the appearance of a lower product fee and which may appear more attractive. Our competitors may also develop a platform or products that are similar to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than ours. This could attract customers or partners away from our platform or our products and reduce our market share. In addition, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be adversely affected. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future strategic distribution and technology partners or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote and increase the usage and adoption of our platform. We expect to encounter new competitors, which may include any of our current or future third-party platform providers or technology partners, both geographically and in our market verticals in and outside of retail and eCommerce. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business and success depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate with third-party platforms, especially with eCommerce platforms such as Shopify, and our business would be harmed as a result of any disruptions to these third-party platform integrations or our relationships with third-party platform providers. We depend on product integrations with various third-party platforms, especially eCommerce platforms, to sustain and grow our business. The integration of our platform and our products with these third-party platforms, including eCommerce platforms, provides us with substantial amounts of additional first-party data that would otherwise be costly or difficult to obtain. These integrations also allow us to attract customers that use these platforms to conduct their business activity. Further, our customers experience with our platform is dependent on our ability to connect easily to these third-party platforms as well as the effectiveness and utility of these integrations. The companies that operate these third-party platforms generally dictate, to varying degrees, the terms of use of their respective platforms, including the manner and procedure by which we integrate with their respective platforms. We may fail to maintain and improve upon these integrations or relationships for many reasons, including due to our or the third parties failure to maintain, support, or secure their third-party platforms in general and our integrations in particular, or errors, bugs, or defects in our or their technology, or changes in our or their technology platforms or our relationship with such third parties due to actual or perceived competing platforms or offerings. Any such failure to integrate data from a third-party platform, or any disruption on an eCommerce platform that prevents us from integrating with that platform or reduces the interoperability between our platform and the respective third-party platform, could harm our relationship with our customers, adversely impact our reputation and brand, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 77.7% of our ARR was derived from customers who also use Shopifys platform, while only approximately 9.4% of our new ARR was derived from customers that came to us through the Shopify app store. Shopify also helps to promote our brand by referring new customers to us, and under our partnership with Shopify Inc. (Shopify), we are the recommended email solution for Shopify Plus customers globally. Any disruption to the functionality of our integration with Shopify, including our removal from their app store, could create delays in data synchronization for our customers and adversely affect the customer experience. Further, if Shopify is unable or unwilling to continue to integrate with our platform for any reason, or if our products or our platform no longer integrate with Shopifys platform, our customers that use Shopifys eCommerce platform could be required to switch to another eCommerce platform in order to continue using our platform and our products. However, the termination or degradation of our integration with Shopify could cause us to lose customers if these customers do not transition to a new eCommerce platform, or if they transition to a platform that does not integrate with our platform. We also have integrations with other third-party eCommerce platforms, such as BigCommerce, Centra, Magento, Nuvemshop, PrestaShop, Salesforce 22 Table of Contents Commerce Cloud, Square, Wix, and WooCommerce, and some of our customers transition from one third-party eCommerce platform to another while remaining on our platform each month. Further, diversifying our contractual relationships and operations with other platforms could increase the complexity of our operations and lead to increased costs. The current term of our agreement with Shopify expires in 2029, and Shopify could refuse to renew such agreement or renegotiate such agreement on terms that are neither favorable to us nor commercially reasonable. If our agreement with Shopify is not renewed, if there are any disruptions to our Shopify integration or if we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationship with Shopify, for any reason, including actual or perceived competing offerings, the utility of and demand for our platform and our products could decline, and our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our business and success depend, in part, on the success of our relationships with third parties, such as our marketing agency and technology partners. We rely on third-party relationships, such as marketing agency and technology partners, to attract customers and enhance the utility of our platform. If any of the third parties on which we rely fail to perform as expected, breaches or terminates their agreement with us, or becomes engaged in a dispute with us, our reputation could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed. For example, we rely on third-party agency partners and other marketing partners to help us acquire and retain customers. If these partners fail to promote our platform or refer new customers to us, fail to support our existing customers, begin promoting competing brands in addition to or instead of ours, are forced to change their marketing practices in response to new or existing regulations or cease to be viewed as credible sources of information by our potential customers, we may face decreased demand for our solutions, higher than expected customer acquisition costs and loss of revenue. We also collaborate with third-party technology partners, including systems integrators and third-party developers, to enhance the utility of our platform. For example, these partners build integrations that extend our platforms core product functionality or bring additional data into our platform. These technology partners may fail to maintain, support, or improve their integrations, which could reduce the utility of our platform and in turn could decrease demand for our platform and products, harm our reputation and brand, and have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In order to grow our business, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on relationships with third parties. Identifying, negotiating, and documenting relationships with partners requires significant time and resources. Our competitors may be more effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce use of our services. In addition, acquisitions of our partners by our competitors could result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential customers, as our partners may no longer facilitate the adoption of our service by potential customers. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or grow our revenues could be impaired and our business, financial condition, and operating results may suffer. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy, or reductions in spending on marketing, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our results of operations may vary based on changes in our industry, particularly changes in the retail and eCommerce industry, as well as the impact of the global economy on our customers. Our results of operations currently depend, in part, on the demand for marketing and related services, of which the vast majority are for retail and eCommerce businesses. In addition, our revenue is dependent on the usage of our platform and the demand for our products, which in turn are 23 Table of Contents influenced by the amount of business that our customers conduct. To the extent that weak or volatile economic conditions, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic, labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, inflation, a government shutdown, geopolitical developments (such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the conflict in the Gaza Strip, as well as the implementation of, or changes to or further expansions of, trade sanctions, export restrictions, tariffs, and embargoes), deterioration of the financial services industry and other events outside of our control, result in a reduced volume of business for our customers and prospective customers, demand for, and use of, our platform and our products may decline. Specifically, because we currently operate primarily in the retail and eCommerce space, any disruption caused to the customers in this space, such as a weak global economy causing a shift in the economic viability of the retail and eCommerce businesses, may require us to adapt our business model and our operations accordingly. Furthermore, weak economic conditions may make it more difficult to collect on outstanding accounts receivable and increase our expenses. Specifically, customers may fail to make payments when due, default under their agreements with us, or become insolvent or declare bankruptcy, or a supplier may determine that it will no longer do business with us as a customer. Additionally, we generate a significant portion of our revenue from small businesses, which may be affected by economic downturns and other adverse macroeconomic conditions, as small businesses may be more likely to reduce their marketing expenses during such periods and do so to a greater extent than larger enterprises and typically have more limited financial resources, including capital borrowing capacity. In addition, a customer or supplier could be adversely affected by any of the liquidity or other risks that are described above as factors that could result in material adverse impacts on us, including but not limited to delayed access or loss of access to uninsured deposits or loss of the ability to draw on existing credit facilities involving a troubled or failed financial institution. If our customers reduce their use of our platform, or prospective customers delay adoption or elect not to adopt our platform or purchase our products, as a result of a weak economy or rising inflation and increased costs or otherwise, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be able to add new customers, retain existing customers, or increase sales to existing customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, the significant majority of our revenue from the sale of subscriptions to our platform. Our business and our growth are dependent on our ability to continue to attract and acquire new customers while retaining existing customers and expanding both their usage of our platform and the products we sell to them. The demand for our products may be inhibited, and we may be unable to grow our business and customer base, for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: our failure to develop or offer new or enhanced products or features in a timely manner that keeps pace with new technologies, competitor offerings, and the evolving needs of our customers; difficulties providing or maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction, which could cause our existing customers to cancel or decrease their subscriptions or stop referring prospective customers to us; increases in our customer churn, decreases in our customer renewals or our failure to convert customers from lower tiers to higher tier priced subscriptions; perceived or actual security, availability, integrity, privacy, reliability, quality, or compatibility problems with our platform, including unscheduled downtime, outages, or security breaches; changes in search engine ranking algorithms or in search terms used by potential customers; our inability to market our platform in a cost-effective manner to new customers or to our existing customers due to changes in regulation, or changes in the enforcement of existing regulation, that would affect our marketing or pricing practices; unexpected increases in the costs of acquiring new customers; our ability to expand into new industry verticals and use cases; and 24 Table of Contents our ability to expand into new geographic regions. In order for us to sustain demand for our products and maintain or increase our revenue growth, it is important that our customers renew and/or expand their subscriptions. Most of our customers subscriptions with us are month-to-month, and they therefore have no obligation to renew their subscriptions or maintain their usage levels. Some of our customers have elected not to renew their subscriptions with us in the past, and it is difficult to accurately predict long-term customer retention. Further, to achieve continued growth, we must not only maintain our relationships with our existing customers, but expand our commercial relationships with our existing customers and encourage them to increase usage of our platform. In order to increase our sales to new and existing customers, we may need to significantly expand our selling and marketing operations, including our sales force and third-party referral and marketing agency partners, and continue to dedicate significant resources to selling and marketing programs, both domestically and internationally. We rely on our marketing agency partners to provide certain services to our customers, as well as refer new customers to our platform. Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively organize, focus, and train our selling and marketing personnel, attract new marketing agency partners and retain existing marketing agency partners. Any failure to continue to attract new customers, retain existing customers or increase usage of our platform by existing customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have a history of net losses, we anticipate increasing operating expenses in the future, and we may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $308.2 million, $49.2 million, and $79.4 million in the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. We are not certain whether we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. Based on our current planned operations, we expect our cash and cash equivalents will enable us to fund our operating expenses for at least the next twelve months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that in the future may prove to be wrong, and we could use our capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We also expect our costs and expenses to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our business and increase our product offerings, which could negatively affect our future results of operations if our revenue does not continue to increase. In particular, we intend to continue to expend substantial financial resources on: our technology infrastructure and operations, including systems architecture, scalability, availability, performance, and security; platform development, including investments in our platform development team and the development of new products and functionality for our platform as well as investments in further improving our existing platform and infrastructure; international expansion; our selling and marketing organization, to engage our existing and prospective customers, increase brand awareness and drive adoption of our products; acquisitions or strategic investments; and general administration, including increased insurance, legal, and accounting expenses associated with being a public company. We may not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, which could be more costly than we currently anticipate, or the realization of these benefits could be delayed. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. If we are unable to maintain or increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected 25 Table of Contents increase in our costs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, and the trading price of our Series A common stock could decline as a result. As we seek to move up-market, we expect our sales cycle with enterprise customers to be longer than with small-and-mid size businesses and we will be required to scale our operations, including by expanding our sales efforts, which may require considerable time and expense. The majority of our customers are small to mid-size businesses and subscribe to our platform on a month-to-month basis. However, as we scale our business and enter into agreements with larger customers, such as enterprise customers, we expect that we will enter into longer-term agreements for usage of our platform and products. We anticipate that these prospective enterprise customers may have lengthy sales cycles for the evaluation and procurement of our platform and the timing of our sales cycles with these enterprise customers and the related revenue may be difficult to predict. For deals that were closed by our sales team in the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, our median sales cycle was approximately 8 weeks. This measure excludes any business generated through self-serve channels. Any delays in our sales cycles may increase the amount of time between when we incur the operating expenses related to these sales efforts and, upon successful sales, the generation of corresponding revenue. Further, we may incur additional selling and marketing expenses as we move up-market and shift our sales strategy to adapt not only to longer sales cycles but to the nature of a new sales motion associated with enterprise sales. As we seek to acquire these enterprise customers, we also anticipate that we will need to increase our sales and customer support capabilities. We may also be required to spend a significant amount of time and resources to train our sales and customer support teams for interfacing with enterprise customers, as well as educating our potential enterprise customers and familiarizing them with our platform. Additionally, these large organizations may have large data sets that require us to evaluate our existing data storage, collection and processing capabilities, and enhance the features and scalability of our platform. Enterprise customers may also view a subscription to our platform and products as a strategic decision with significant investment. As a result, these customers may require considerable time to evaluate, test, and qualify our platform prior to entering into or expanding a subscription. As we engage with enterprise customers, we may expend a greater amount of time and money on selling and marketing and contract negotiation activities, which may not result in a sale. Additional factors that may influence the length and variability of our sales cycle include: the effectiveness of our sales team as we hire and train our new salespeople to sell to large enterprise customers; the discretionary nature of purchasing, budget cycles, and decisions; the obstacles placed by customers procurement processes; economic conditions and other factors impacting customer budgets; customers familiarity with our products; customers evaluation of competing products during the purchasing process; and evolving customer demands. In light of these factors, it is difficult to predict whether and when a sale will be completed, and if completed, the additional customer engagement and services we will need to provide for the duration of the agreement. Consequently, our efforts to expand up-market and enter into agreements with larger organizations may be difficult and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition if we do not adapt our business to the needs of the enterprise customer base. We have historically invested significantly in research and development and expect this investment to continue. If these investments do not translate into new products or enhancements to our current products or product features, or if we do 26 Table of Contents not use those investments efficiently, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, our research and development expenses were 37.6%, 22.0%, and 22.6% of our revenue, respectively. Research and development projects can be technically challenging and expensive, particularly as we work to expand both the channels through which we offer our products and the use cases for our products beyond marketing. In addition, our products have varying associated communication sending costs, and our research and development team may not be able to mitigate the impact of growth in any of those higher-cost channels, such as SMS, by maintaining efficiency. The nature of research and development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we are able to offer compelling products and generate revenue, if any, from this investment. Additionally, anticipated customer demand for a product we are developing could decrease after the development cycle has commenced, and we would nonetheless be unable to avoid substantial costs associated with the development of any such product. If we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction or improvement of products that are competitive in our current or future markets or if we do not spend our research and development budget efficiently or effectively on compelling innovation and technologies, our competitive advantage may be adversely affected, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing regulations or changing customer or consumer needs, requirements or preferences, our platform may become less competitive. The market in which we compete is relatively new and subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, and changing regulations, as well as changing customer and consumer needs, requirements, and preferences, including changes in the use of channels through which consumers desire to communicate with brands. For example, while email marketing has been the primary product on our platform, our SMS offering is relatively new, and customers may prefer SMS or push marketing campaigns or campaigns using other new types of communication channels to email campaigns in the future. Further, as consumer preferences with respect to communication channels evolve, we may need to adapt to the varying margin profiles of these new technologies and address potential margin compression. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt and respond effectively to changes in customer and consumer preference on a timely basis in the markets that we currently serve, such as retail and eCommerce, and in markets we may enter in the future. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our platform and products, offer new features as part of our existing products, offer new products, and increase adoption and usage of our platform and products. For example, we expect that the number of integrations with our customers infrastructure that we will need to support will continue to expand as customers and developers adopt new software solutions, and we may have to develop new integrations to work with those new solutions. The success of any enhancements to our existing or new products depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, actual performance quality, market-accepted pricing levels, and overall market acceptance. Enhancements to our existing and new products that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain errors or defects, may have interoperability difficulties with our platform or products, or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Further, the use of machine learning and artificial intelligence is becoming increasingly prevalent in our industry, and, although we intend to continue developing our platforms machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities to meet the needs of our customers and partners, we may be unable to accurately or efficiently integrate machine learning and artificial intelligence features or functionalities of the quality or type sought by our customers and partners or offered by our competitors. These development efforts may also require significant engineering, sales, and marketing resources, all of which could require significant capital and management investment. If we are unable to enhance our platform and product offerings to keep pace with rapid technological and regulatory change, or if new technologies, including machine learning and artificial intelligence solutions, emerge that are able to deliver competitive products at aggressive or alternative prices, more efficiently, more conveniently or more securely than our platform, demand for our platform and product offerings may decline, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more members of our senior management team or our key employees, or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the continued service and contributions of our executive officers. We rely on our leadership team for research and development, marketing, sales, services, and general and administrative functions, and on mission-critical individual contributors. In particular, we depend on the vision, skills, experience, and effort of our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Bialecki. From time to time, our executive management team may change due to the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees, so the loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees (including any limitation on the performance of their duties or short-term or long-term absences as a result of illness or disability) could adversely affect our business. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for this type of personnel is intense, especially for experienced software engineers and senior sales executives. In addition, partially in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have a large, remote workforce, which adds to the complexity of our business operations. We expect to continue to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. Many of our key personnel are vested in a substantial amount of shares of Series A common stock, restricted stock units, or stock options. Employees may be more likely to terminate their employment with us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested restricted stock units or options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise price of the options or grant date values of the restricted stock units, or, conversely, if the exercise price of the options that they hold are significantly above the trading price of our Series A common stock. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our stock awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, it could adversely affect our business and future growth prospects. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to maintain or expand our customer base may be impaired and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand is important to support the marketing and sale of our existing and future products to new customers and expand sales of our platform and products to existing customers. We also believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successfully maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to carry out effective marketing efforts, provide reliable products that continue to meet the needs of our customers at competitive prices, maintain our customers trust, ensure the protection of our customers data, develop new functionality and use cases, and successfully differentiate our products and platform capabilities from the products of our competitors. Our brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or yield increased revenue and, even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, the demand for our products may decline, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Doing business internationally exposes us to significant risks, and our future success depends in part on our ability to navigate the international business environment and drive the adoption of our products by international customers. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our customer base worldwide, and we are continuing to expand our international operations to increase our revenue from customers located outside of the United States as part of our growth strategy. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, we derived 36.5%, 35.0% and 32.1% of our revenue, respectively, from customer accounts outside of the United States. We currently have offices in 28 Table of Contents the United Kingdom and Australia, and we expect that we may in the future open additional offices internationally and hire employees to work at these offices in order to grow our business, reach new customers, and gain access to additional technical talent. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic, and political risks in addition to those we already face in the United States. Because of our limited experience with international operations as well as developing and managing sales in international markets, we may not succeed in marketing our products to potential customers internationally, as a result of which our international expansion efforts may not be successful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including: changes, which may be unexpected, in a specific countrys or regions political, economic, or legal and regulatory environment, including pandemics, terrorist activities, tariffs, trade wars, or long-term environmental risks; the need to adapt and localize our platform for specific countries, and the costs associated with adapting and localizing our platform; longer payment cycles and greater difficulty enforcing contracts, collecting accounts receivable, or satisfying revenue recognition criteria, especially in emerging markets; differing and potentially more onerous labor regulations, especially in Europe, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing, and the increased costs associated with, an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs that are specific to each jurisdiction; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, and regulatory systems; increased travel, real estate, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we chose to do so in the future; laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general market preferences for local vendors or domestic products; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection or difficulties obtaining, maintaining, protecting, or enforcing our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks and patents; global health crises, such as COVID-19, that could decrease economic activity in certain markets, decrease use of our products, or decrease our ability to import, export, or sell our products to existing or new customers in international markets; exposure to liabilities under export control, economic and trade sanctions, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering laws, including the Export Administration Regulations, the OFAC regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), U.S. bribery laws, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the U.K. Bribery Act), and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; differing technical standards, existing or future regulatory and certification requirements, and required features and functionality; 29 Table of Contents burdens of complying with the foreign equivalents of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the TCPA), the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography And Marketing Act of 2003 (CAN-SPAM), and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; burdens of complying with laws and regulations related to privacy and data security, including the EU GDPR and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; burdens of complying with laws and regulations related to taxation; and adverse tax burdens, foreign exchange controls, and other regulations that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business and reputation could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with the integration or implementation of our platform and products provided by us or our partners. The success of our business depends on our customers satisfaction with our platform and our products and the support that we provide for our platform and products to help customers integrate and utilize our platform and products. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a third party or with the solutions delivered, we could incur additional costs to address the deficiency, which would diminish the profitability of the customer relationship. If we do not help our customers quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell new products to existing and new customers will suffer and our reputation with existing or potential customers will be harmed, even if the dissatisfaction resulted from services provided by a third-party partner. Further, customer dissatisfaction with our products or support services, or negative publicity related to our customer relationships, could impair our ability to expand the subscriptions within our customer base or adversely affect our customers renewal of existing subscriptions. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors that make our future results difficult to predict, could cause the trading price of our Series A common stock to fluctuate, and could cause our results of operations to fall below analyst or investor expectations. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance, and comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. For example, in the past we have seen an increase in demand for our platform and our products during the fourth quarter of each year and around Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Additionally, factors that may impact these fluctuations include, but are not limited to: demand for our platform and products by our customers; our success in retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; the timing and success of new capabilities by us or by our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our market; the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures, as well as entry into operating leases, that we may incur to maintain and expand our business and operations and remain competitive; the timing of expenses and recognition of revenue; reduction in certain customers usage of our platform that is subject to seasonal fluctuations; security breaches, and technical difficulties involving our platform or interruptions or disruptions of our platform; adverse litigation judgments, other dispute-related settlement payments, or other litigation- related costs; 30 Table of Contents changes in, and continuing uncertainty in relation to, the legislative or regulatory environment; the timing of hiring new employees; the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; the timing of the grant or vesting of equity awards to employees, directors, consultants, or advisors and the recognition of associated expenses; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; costs and timing of expenses related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies, or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs and possible write-downs; the impact of tax charges as a result of non-compliance with federal, state, or local tax regulations in the United States; changes to generally accepted accounting standards in the United States; health pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, influenza, and other highly communicable diseases or viruses; and general economic conditions in either domestic or international markets, including conditions resulting from geopolitical uncertainty and instability. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. The variability and unpredictability of our quarterly results of operations or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations, or those of our investors or analysts that cover us. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the trading price of our Series A common stock could fluctuate, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely upon a third-party provider of cloud-based infrastructure to host and sell our products. Any disruption in the operations of this provider or limitations on capacity or interference with our use could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We outsource substantially all the infrastructure relating to our cloud-based platform to a third-party hosting provider. Our customers need to be able to access our platform at any time, without interruption or degradation of performance. Our products depend on protecting the virtual cloud infrastructure hosted by a third-party hosting provider by maintaining its configuration, architecture, features, and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers, which is transmitted by a third-party internet service provider. Any limitation on the capacity or availability of our third-party hosting provider could impede our ability to onboard new customers or expand the usage of our existing customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the event that our service agreements with our third-party hosting provider are terminated or there is a lapse of service, elimination of services or features that we utilize, interruption of internet service provider connectivity or damage to such providers facilities, we could experience interruptions in access to our platform as well as significant delays and additional expense in arranging or creating new facilities and services and/or re-architecting our cloud solution for deployment on a different cloud infrastructure service provider, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business depends on our ability to send consumer engagement messages, including emails, SMS, and mobile and web notifications, and any significant disruption in service with our third-party providers or on mobile operating 31 Table of Contents systems could result in a loss of customers or less effective consumer-brand engagement, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our brand, reputation, and ability to attract new customers depend on the reliable performance of our technology infrastructure and content delivery. Our platform engages with consumers through emails, SMS and push notifications, and we in large part depend on third-party services for delivery of such notifications. Any incident broadly affecting the interaction of third-party devices with our platform, including any delays or interruptions in these services that could cause delays to emails, SMS, or mobile and web notifications, could adversely affect our business. Similarly, cybersecurity events could result in a disruption to such third-partys services, including regulatory investigations, reputational damage, and a loss of sales and customers, which could in turn impact our business. A prolonged disruption, cybersecurity event or any other negative event affecting a third-party service could lead to customer dissatisfaction and could in turn damage our reputation with current and potential customers, result in a breach under our agreements with our customers, and cause us to lose customers or otherwise harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend in part on mobile operating systems and their respective infrastructures to send notifications through various applications that utilize our platform. As new email, mobile devices, and mobile and web platforms are released, existing email, mobile devices, and platforms may cease to support our platform or effectively roll out updates to our customers applications. Any changes in these systems or platforms that negatively impact the functionality of our platform could adversely affect our ability to interact with consumers in a timely and effective fashion, which could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers. The parties that control the operating systems for mobile devices and mobile, web, and email platforms have no obligation to test the interoperability of new mobile devices or platforms with our platform, and third parties may produce new products that are incompatible with or not optimal for the operation of our platform. Additionally, in order to deliver high-quality consumer engagement, we need to ensure that our platform is designed to work effectively with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks, and standards. If consumers choose to use products or platforms that do not support our platform, or if we do not ensure our platform can work effectively with such products or platforms, our business and growth could be harmed. We also may not be successful in developing or maintaining relationships with key participants in the email or mobile industries that permit such interoperability. If we are unable to adapt to changes in popular operating systems and platforms, we expect that our customer retention and customer growth would be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the reliability, security, and performance of our software. If our software contains serious errors or defects, or we have difficulty maintaining our software, we may lose revenue and market acceptance and may incur costs to defend or settle claims with our customers. The reliability and continuous availability of our platform is critical to our business. However, software and products in our industry often contain errors, defects, security vulnerabilities or software bugs that are difficult to detect and correct, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Our platform may contain serious errors or real or perceived defects, security vulnerabilities, failures or software bugs that we may be unable to successfully correct in a timely manner or at all, which could result in lost revenue, significant expenditures of capital, a delay or loss in market acceptance of our platform, negative publicity, loss of competitive position, lower customer retention or claims by customers for losses sustained by them and damage to our reputation and brand, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem(s). In addition, we may not carry insurance sufficient to compensate us for any losses that may result from claims arising from defects or disruptions in our products. Furthermore, our platform is a cloud-based solution that allows us to deploy new versions and enhancements to all of our customers simultaneously. As a result of any of these events, our reputation and our brand could be harmed, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may harm our relationships with our customers, our brand, and our results of operations. Once our products are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our products. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We may also be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for these services could increase costs and harm our results of operations because we do not charge our customers for the technical support services we provide. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the quality of our products, the reputation of our business, the positive recommendations from our existing customers and through word-of-mouth generally. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a perception by our customers and others that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation and our ability to sell our products to existing and prospective customers, and as a result, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain our culture and core values as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion, and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success, and our business may be harmed. We believe our culture and core values are critical to our success and have delivered tangible financial and operational benefits to our customers, employees, and stockholders. Our values impact everything we do in our organization, and we have designed our core values as a guiding set of principles for our employees and business. Accordingly, we have invested substantial time and resources in building a team that reflects our culture and core values. As we continue to grow and develop our infrastructure as a public company, our operations are likely to become increasingly complex, and we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our culture and core values. Any failure to manage our anticipated growth and organizational changes in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our culture and core values could hurt our ability to recruit and retain personnel and effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. In addition, the growth of our remote workforce may impact our ability to preserve our culture and core values. Any failure to preserve our culture or core values could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel, and effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. Our inability to streamline operations and improve cost efficiencies could result in the contraction of our business and the implementation of additional significant cost cutting measures. Our restructuring and reorganization activities may also be disruptive to our operations. We have previously undertaken efforts to streamline our operations and improve cost efficiencies to align with our priorities for 2023, and in March 2023 we announced a reduction-in-force affecting approximately 8% of our global workforce. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits, such as operational improvements and savings, from these efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. If there are unforeseen expenses associated with these efforts and we incur unanticipated charges or liabilities, or if we are unable to realize the expected operational efficiencies and cost savings, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our workforce reductions may be disruptive to our operations. For example, our workforce reductions could yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned staff reductions, increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations and reduced employee morale or productivity. We may also discover that the reductions in workforce and cost cutting measures will make it difficult for us to pursue new opportunities and initiatives and require us to hire qualified replacement personnel, which may require us to incur additional and unanticipated costs and expenses. We may take similar steps in the future as we seek to realize operating synergies, optimize our operations to achieve our target operating model and profitability objectives, respond to market forces or better reflect changes in the strategic direction of our business. Our failure to successfully accomplish any of the above activities and goals could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our results of operations. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations we apply to a wide range of matters that are or could be relevant to our business, such as accounting for long-lived asset impairment, goodwill, variable interest entities, and stock-based compensation, are complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgements by our management could significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported or expected financial performance. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred in the past, and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In addition, if we were to change our critical accounting estimates, including those related to the recognition of subscription revenue and other revenue sources or the period of benefit for deferred contract acquisition costs, our results of operations could be significantly affected. For more information, see Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Polices in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If our judgments or estimates relating to our critical accounting estimates are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline of the trading price of our Series A common stock. The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our Series A common stock. Significant judgments, estimates, and assumptions used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, or may in the future include, those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation expense, business combinations, and tax sharing liability. We track certain operational metrics, which are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our stock price, business, results of operations, and financial condition. We track certain operational metrics, including metrics such as KAV and NRR, which may differ from estimates or similar metrics published by third parties due to differences in sources, methodologies, or the assumptions on which we rely. Our internal systems and tools are subject to a number of limitations, and our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we publicly disclose. If the internal systems and tools we use to track these metrics undercount or overcount performance or contain algorithmic or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. Limitations or errors with respect to how we measure data or with respect to the data that we measure may affect our understanding of certain details of our business, which could affect our long-term strategies. If our operational metrics are not accurate representations of our business, or if investors do not perceive these metrics to be accurate, or if we discover material inaccuracies with respect to these figures, our reputation may be significantly harmed, our stock price could decline, we may be subject to stockholder litigation, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure