Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on February 29, 2024. As discussed in the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they do not materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included under Part II, Item 1A within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We founded Klaviyo in 2012 to provide businesses of all sizes with powerful technology that captures, stores, analyzes, and predictively uses their own data to drive measurable, high-value outcomes. Klaviyo enables businesses to drive revenue growth by making it easy to bring their first-party data together and use it to create and deliver highly personalized consumer experiences across digital channels. Our platform combines our proprietary data and application layers into one vertically-integrated solution with advanced machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities. This enables business users of any skill level to harness their data in order to send the right message at the right time across email, short message service (SMS), and push notifications, more accurately measure and predict performance, and deploy the specific actions and campaigns that drive the highest impact. Our reviews add-on allows our customers to collect product reviews within our platform to provide a seamless experience across the customer lifecycle, and our Customer Data Platform (CDP) offering gives customers user-friendly ways to track new types of data, transform and cleanse data, run more advanced reporting and predictive analysis to drive revenue growth, and sync data in to and out of Klaviyo at scale. We focused on marketing automation within eCommerce as our first application use case, and we believe our software is highly extensible across a broad range of functions and verticals. As of March 31, 2024, our platform had efficiently scaled to over 146,000 customers. Today, our customers primarily operate within the retail and eCommerce vertical. Due to the flexibility and adaptability of our technology, we also see organic growth from customers in other verticals, such as education, events and entertainment, restaurants, and travel, as well as from business-to-business (B2B) companies. See the section below titled Key Performance Metrics Customers for additional information on how we define customers and customers outside of retail. We generate revenue through the sale of subscriptions to our customers for the use of our platform. Our subscription plans are tiered based on the number of active consumer profiles stored on our platform and the number of emails and SMS messages sent. We currently permit our customers to send unlimited push notifications, which are included as part of our email subscription plan. Active consumer profiles are identified profiles that can be reached via at least one enabled marketing channel in Klaviyo; this means the profile is not suppressed, either by revoking consent or being rendered undeliverable. The vast majority of our subscription plans today are monthly. Our land-and-expand strategy is designed to align our success with that of our customers. As our customers businesses grow, they utilize more active consumer profiles and send more emails and SMS messages, which naturally increases their usage of our platform. Our revenue also expands when our customers add additional channels, such as SMS, and additional use cases, such as reviews and our CDP offering, or when their other brands, business units, and geographies start using the platform. Factors Affecting Our Future Performance We believe that our performance and future success depend on a number of factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including the following factors: 24 Growth in New Customers Attracting new customers to our platform is a key driver of our revenue growth strategy. We have successfully grown our retail and eCommerce customer base and believe we have significant room to expand within this vertical as well as expand into other industries, including education, events and entertainment, restaurants, and travel as well as from B2B customers. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to innovate, the effectiveness and pricing of our new and existing products and capabilities, and the success of our selling and marketing efforts. Expansion of Revenue From Our Existing Customer Base We believe our product-led growth strategy enables us to efficiently expand penetration within our existing customer base. We focus on expansion in three primary ways. First, as our customers increase their usage of our platform through the number of active consumer profiles they have and email and SMS messages they send, they move to higher subscription tiers. Second, we cross-sell additional communication channels, such as SMS, to customers who started on our platform with our email offering, as well as add-ons, such as reviews and our CDP offering. Finally, we sell our platform to our customers other brands, business units, and geographies. Going forward, our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our solutions and the ability of our customers to attract new consumers. We expect these three forms of revenue expansion to continue in the future. Growth with Larger Customers When we first launched our platform, we intentionally focused on serving entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) based on the need we saw for a simple and easy-to-use, yet powerful solution for customers in this category, and the large market opportunity within this group of customers. As our customers have scaled and become mid-market companies and larger enterprises themselves, their success with Klaviyo has attracted more interest from similarly sized businesses that are looking to drive better engagement with their consumers. Our ability to continue to move up market is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to further adapt our platform to the needs of larger accounts, the effectiveness of our sales team, and pricing. International Expansion We believe we have significant expansion opportunities in international markets. We started by serving customers in North America and, in 2019, we expanded our operations to London, England to penetrate the European region. In 2022, we opened our office in Sydney, Australia to capitalize on the opportunities in Asia Pacific. We have already experienced significant growth with international sales outside of the Americas accounting for 31.6% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024. We believe that the introduction of additional languages and currencies to our platform will increase our efficacy and ease of use in other regions. Investment in Innovation and Product Development Since our inception, we have been focused on product innovation, seeking to create what we believe is the best software solution for our customers. We originally launched our platform with email messaging as our first channel. Since then, we have successfully added other channels, such as SMS and push notifications, as well additional use cases, such as reviews and our CDP offering. Our continued success depends on our ability to sustain product and technology innovation to continue delivering value to our customers. As technology and consumer preferences change, we believe that our ability to drive continuous product innovation will be critical to attract and retain customers and drive revenue growth. Increased Adoption of Our SMS Offering We have seen notable success in the expansion of our platform with our SMS offering, which launched in 2021. Once customers adopt our SMS offering, they typically grow their usage over time as they gain comfort and confidence in the new channel. Our SMS offering has higher associated communication sending costs, and as the number of SMS messages sent by our customers increases, we expect our gross margin to decline modestly. SMS messaging is particularly 25 concentrated in the fourth quarter of each year due to the holiday shopping season, and as a result, we expect our gross margin to be most heavily impacted in that quarter. This gross margin impact could be partially offset by our continued work on data storage architecture and gaining further leverage on costs with our increased scale. We believe we will see our overall gross profit dollars increase as customers send more SMS messages if our SMS offering continues to gain traction. Expansion into New Industry Verticals and Use Cases As more customers use our platform, we are seeing organic demand from customers in other verticals, such as education, events and entertainment, restaurants, and travel, as well as from B2B companies. While we started with consumer engagement as our initial use case in the retail and eCommerce vertical, we see a large opportunity into other products and verticals. Without an active sales motion, we have attracted customers from verticals other than retail and eCommerce, which indicates the strong interest and applicability of our platform to new verticals. We have begun to explore ways to serve these new verticals more intentionally. For example, we launched Klaviyo for Wellness in June 2023, which is tailored for fitness studios, salons, and other client-based services within the vertical. In the future, we intend to more actively invest in addressing new industry verticals and product use cases. Key Performance Metrics Customers. We define a customer as a distinct paid subscription to our platform. A single organization could have multiple discrete contracting divisions or subsidiaries or brands each with paid subscriptions to our platform, which would, in general, constitute multiple distinct customers. In some cases at the customers request, we allow subscriptions under the same parent organization to be consolidated into a single paid subscription in which case such consolidated paid subscriptions would constitute a single customer. We measure our total number of customers as a point-in-time calculation measured as of the end of a particular period. Customers do not include persons or entities that use our platform on a free trial basis. We define customers outside of retail as those customers who have an identified industry outside of retail, either through in-product selection or as part of the sales process. Customers Generating Over $50,000 of ARR. We calculate our number of customers generating over $50,000 of ARR (as defined below) as those customers that have an average ARR of greater than $50,000 over the prior twelve months (or the entire duration of the customers paying relationship, if it is less than twelve months) as of the date of determination. We believe the number of customers generating over $50,000 of ARR is a key performance metric to help investors and others understand and evaluate our results of operations in the same manner as our management team, as it is an indicator of our ability to grow the number of customers that are exceeding this ARR threshold, both from our existing customers expanding their usage of our platform and from our sales to larger customers. We believe this is an important indicator of our ability to continue to successfully move up market. As of March 31, 2024, we had 2,157 customers generating over $50,000 of ARR, compared to 1,273 customers generating over $50,000 of ARR as of March 31, 2023, representing growth of 69% year-over-year. Dollar-Based Net Revenue Retention Rate. We calculate our Dollar-Based Net Revenue Retention rate (NRR) by first identifying the cohort of customers as of twelve months prior to the date of determination. We then calculate the Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) from this customer cohort as of twelve months prior to the date of determination (the Prior Period ARR) and the ARR from this customer cohort as of the date of determination (the Current Period ARR). ARR, for any date of determination, is the annualized value of existing paid subscriptions, which we calculate by taking the amount of revenue that we expect to receive in the next monthly period for our existing paid subscriptions, assuming no changes to such subscriptions in the next month, as of that date of determination, and multiplying that amount by twelve. Current Period ARR includes any expansion, price increases, and customer subscriptions that are deactivated and subsequently reactivated during the applicable twelve-month period and reflects contraction or attrition over the last twelve months from this customer cohort, but excludes any ARR from new customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at the point-in-time NRR. We then calculate the 26 weighted average point-in-time NRR as of the last day of each month in the current trailing twelve-month period to arrive at the NRR, with the weightings determined by the total ARR at the end of each period. We believe NRR is a key performance metric to help investors and others understand and evaluate our results of operations in the same manner as our management team, as it represents the expansion in usage of our platform by our existing customers, which is an important measure of the health of our business and future growth prospects. We measure dollar-based net revenue retention rate to measure this growth. As of March 31, 2024 and 2023, our NRR was 114% and 119%, respectively. We implemented a price increase in September 2022, which positively increased revenue growth in 2022 and 2023. This price increase also impacted the various measures we use to assess our usage and subscription levels based on revenue, such as NRR, and our revenue growth rate, and following its implementation, those measures experienced corresponding increases as a result. The decrease in these measures from March 31, 2023 to March 31, 2024 was largely driven by lapping the one-year anniversary of this price increase. Klaviyo Attributed Value. We define Klaviyo Attributed Value (KAV) as the amount of revenue our customers generated through orders placed by consumers within a specified period of time after a message is sent using our platform, which in the case of email is five days from when the message is sent, and in the case of SMS is twenty-four hours from when the message is sent. For email, the message also needs to be opened or clicked in order for the transaction to fall within our definition. KAV excludes orders placed with customers that do not opt-in to sharing data on placed orders, orders for which we cannot determine the currency or value, or unusual orders that appear to us to be anomalies. Since our definition of a customer does not include persons or entities that use our platform on a free trial basis, any revenue generated through orders placed with these persons or entities is also excluded from our definition of KAV. We do not net chargebacks or sales refunds from our calculation of KAV. If a customer leaves Klaviyo, we stop counting that customers KAV after their last contracted month. We believe KAV serves as a measure of the return-on-investment that we help generate for our customers and illustrates the value our platform can drive to our customers, which we believe enhances our ability to maintain existing customers and attract new customers. We use KAV as an internal estimate to track the value we drive to customers through our platform. KAV is an operational measure, does not represent revenue earned by us, and does not directly correlate to our pricing, revenue, or results of operations. Further, KAV is not a forecast of future revenue and investors should not place undue reliance on KAV as an indicator of our future or expected results. Seasonality Generally, demand for our services increases during the fourth quarter as our customers run more marketing campaigns and deploy marketing spend as a result of increased consumer spending patterns during the holiday shopping season. This is specifically prominent within the retail and eCommerce sector in which the majority of our customers operate today. Given our revenue model allows our customers to scale usage as needed, our sequential revenue growth has been historically stronger in the fourth quarter of each year compared to the revenue growth we see in other quarters. Our customers utilize the SMS offering in particular during the holidays; as such, to the extent that the SMS offering grows in proportion to our other channels, we expect that we would see further seasonality. We believe seasonality may continue to impact our quarterly results going forward. Components of Results of Operations Revenue A significant majority of our revenues are derived from sales of subscriptions, which are comprised of fees paid by customers to access our cloud-based software platform for storing consumers first-party data and using it to create and deliver personalized and targeted email and SMS marketing services. A small portion of our revenue is currently derived from professional services. 27 Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue primarily consist of cloud-based infrastructure costs, outbound communication sending costs, employee-related costs including payroll, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation expense related to our customer support team, amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs, and allocated overhead costs, including rent, facilities, depreciation, and costs related to information technology. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in dollar amount as we continue to invest in our platform infrastructure and support, acquire new customers, and existing customers increase their usage of our platform. Gross Profit Our gross profit represents revenue, less all cost of revenue. We expect our gross profit to increase over time due to an increase in revenue. We expect our gross margin to decline modestly in the near term as the volume of SMS messages sent through our platform increases, and it could fluctuate in the long term due to timing of investments and expected increases in our cloud-based infrastructure costs and outbound communication sending costs, including email and SMS, as our customers increase usage of our platform and capabilities. We expect to continue to optimize inputs to our cost of revenue through continued work on data storage architecture and gaining further leverage on costs with our increased scale. Selling and Marketing Our selling and marketing costs primarily consist of employee-related costs including payroll, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation; sales commissions and partnership expenses for revenue sharing agreements, including to Shopify Inc. (Shopify), other commerce platform partners, and agency partners; costs associated with advertising and marketing activities; and allocated overhead costs, including rent, facilities, depreciation, and costs related to information technology. Sales commissions are considered an incremental cost to obtain contracts with customers and these costs are deferred and amortized over the expected benefit period. On July 28, 2022, we entered into a collaboration agreement and strategic partnership with Shopify pursuant to which we issued warrants to Shopify (and certain of its affiliates) (the Shopify Warrants), in exchange for promotion of our marketing services with customers within the Shopify ecosystem. In accordance with relevant accounting policies, we recognize a prepaid marketing expense in connection with the Shopify Warrants. This prepaid marketing expense represents the probable future economic benefit being amortized over a seven-year expected benefit period and is recorded based on the fair value of the warrants on the grant date. We expect to continue to make investments in our selling and marketing organization, and expect selling and marketing expense to remain our largest operating expense in dollar amount. Selling and marketing expense may fluctuate from period to period depending on the extent and timing of our marketing initiatives. We expect selling and marketing expense to increase in dollar amount but decrease as a percentage of revenue over the longer term. In the short term, we expect selling and marketing costs to increase as we increase headcount in our go-to-market team, grow into new markets, and pay more in partnership fees to Shopify and other partners as we continue to grow. Research and Development Our research and development costs primarily consist of employee-related costs associated with research and development staff, including payroll, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and allocated overhead costs, including rent, facilities, depreciation, and costs related to information technology. We capitalize a portion of our research and development costs that meets the criteria for capitalization of internal-use software. All other research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We believe continued investment and innovation in our platform, capabilities, and offerings are important for our growth and, as such, expect our research and development costs to continue to increase in dollar amount but remain consistent as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future. This percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing and amount of these expenses. 28 General and Administrative Our general and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs including payroll, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation in general corporate functions, such as procurement, accounting and finance, tax, legal, project management, and human resources, as well as allocated overhead costs, including rent, facilities, depreciation, and costs related to information technology. Credit card processing fees are also part of general and administrative expenses. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in the near term as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses associated with compliance with the rules and regulations governing public companies, such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and an increase in legal, audit, insurance, investor relations, professional services, and other administrative expenses. Further, we expect an increase in dollar amount of credit card processing fees in line with the expected increase in revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in dollar amount for the foreseeable future but to generally decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the longer term as we scale our business. This percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing and amount of our general and administrative expenses, including in the short term due to heightened compliance requirements associated with operating as a public company. These expenses include increased professional service costs, the increased cost of directors and officers liability insurance, and costs associated with increasing our employee headcount in certain departments, such as accounting, internal audit, and investor relations. Interest Income Interest income consists of income earned from our cash deposits held in interest-bearing accounts and money market funds. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal and state net deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is coordinating negotiations among more than 140 countries with the goal of achieving consensus around substantial changes to international tax policies, including the implementation of a minimum global effective tax rate of 15%. While various countries have implemented the legislation as of January 1, 2024, we do not expect a resulting material change to our income tax provision for the 2024 fiscal year. As additional jurisdictions enact such legislation, we expect our effective tax rate and cash tax payments could increase in future years. Segments We operate our business through one reportable segment, as well as one business activity, providing software that brings consumers first-party data together and uses it to create and deliver highly personalized consumer experiences across digital channels. 29 Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the fiscal periods presented and express the relationship of certain line items as a percentage of revenue for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 ($ in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Operations Revenue $ 209,993 $ 156,088 Cost of revenue(1) 44,938 36,574 Gross profit 165,055 119,514 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing(1) 91,858 60,613 Research and development(1) 56,097 35,032 General and administrative(1) 39,192 22,991 Total operating expenses 187,147 118,636 Operating (loss) income (22,092) 878 Other income (expense): Other income (expense), net 68 (25) Interest income 9,546 3,816 Total other income, net 9,614 3,791 (Loss) income before income taxes (12,478) 4,669 Provision for income taxes 404 391 Net (loss) income $ (12,882) $ 4,278 (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Cost of revenue $ 2,378 $ 26 Selling and marketing 11,284 127 Research and development 13,121 551 General and administrative 8,844 1,119 Stock-based compensation, net of amounts capitalized 35,627 1,823 Capitalized stock-based compensation expense 127 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 35,754 $ 1,823 30 The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 21.4 23.4 Gross profit 78.6 76.6 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 43.7 38.8 Research and development 26.7 22.4 General and administrative 18.7 14.7 Total operating expenses 89.1 76.0 Operating (loss) income (10.5) 0.6 Other income (expense): Other income (expense), net Interest income 4.5 2.4 Total other income, net 4.5 2.4 (Loss) income before income taxes (6.0) 3.0 Provision for income taxes 0.2 0.3 Net (loss) income (6.2) % 2.7 % 31 Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Revenue $ 209,993 $ 156,088 $ 53,905 34.5 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $53.9 million or 34.5%, to $210.0 million compared to $156.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was due to new business, expanded usage of our platform, and growth of our SMS channel. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, sales to existing customers accounted for approximately 45% of the increase in revenue. Approximately 55% of the increase in revenue was related to new customers. Sales to new customers represent the revenue recognized from new customers acquired in the 12 months prior to the period end. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 44,938 $ 36,574 $ 8,364 22.9 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $8.4 million or 22.9%, to $44.9 million compared to $36.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This was primarily due to an increase of approximately $4.2 million in outbound communication sending costs on behalf of our customers due to increased usage, $2.4 million of stock-based compensation expense related to the vesting of restricted stock units (RSUs), and $1.0 million in salaries and personnel expenses as a result of increases in headcount. Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Gross profit $ 165,055 $ 119,514 $ 45,541 38.1 % Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $45.5 million or 38.1%, to $165.1 million compared to $119.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was primarily due to revenue growth and ongoing efforts to optimize our costs including (i) higher volume-based discounts and pricing improvements on our purchases of third-party cloud hosting infrastructure and (ii) more efficient use of data storage and elimination of legacy storage architecture. Selling and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Selling and marketing $ 91,858 $ 60,613 $ 31,245 51.5 % Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $31.2 million or 51.5%, to $91.9 million compared to $60.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was primarily due to an increase of approximately $15.5 million in salaries and related personnel expenses as a result of increases in headcount, $11.2 million of stock-based compensation due to the vesting of RSUs, $2.5 million in partnership-related expenses across our ecosystem, $1.8 million in marketing expenses associated with our advertising campaigns across multiple channels of 32 media, $1.1 million in professional services, and $0.8 million in technology expenses. The increase was offset by a decrease of approximately $2.1 million in restructuring expenses. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Research and development $ 56,097 $ 35,032 $ 21,065 60.1 % Research and development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $21.1 million or 60.1%, to $56.1 million compared to $35.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was primarily due to an increase of approximately $12.6 million of stock-based compensation due to the vesting of RSUs, $10.6 million in salaries and related personnel expenses as a result of increases in headcount, and $0.7 million in professional services. The increase was offset by a decrease of approximately $2.8 million in restructuring expenses. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) General and administrative $ 39,192 $ 22,991 $ 16,201 70.5 % General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $16.2 million or 70.5%, to $39.2 million compared to $23.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was primarily due to an increase of approximately $7.7 million of stock-based compensation due to the vesting of RSUs, $2.8 million in professional services, primarily attributable to expenses incurred to operate as a public company, $2.5 million in salaries and related personnel expenses as a result of increases in headcount, $1.5 million in finance expenses, primarily attributable to expenses incurred for international tax compliance, $1.4 million in payment processing fees, and $0.8 million in technology expenses. The increase was offset by a decrease of approximately $0.9 million in restructuring expenses. Other Income (expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 68 $ (25) $ 93 (372.0) % Other income (expense) for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by an immaterial amount compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Interest Income Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Interest income $ 9,546 $ 3,816 $ 5,730 150.2 % Interest income for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $5.7 million to $9.5 million compared to $3.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was due to greater interest income from the larger cash balances held in interest-bearing accounts, including money market funds. 33 Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change ($ in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 404 $ 391 $ 13 3.3 % Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by an immaterial amount compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing, and financing activities. In doing so, we review and analyze our primary sources and uses of liquidity to include cash balances on hand and cash flows from operations. Since our inception through March 31, 2024, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of equity securities and payments received from our customers. In September 2023, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) which resulted in aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $320.1 million, after deducting approximately $17.7 million in underwriting discounts and commissions, and $7.4 million in offering-related expenses. As of March 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash totaling $756.9 million, with such amounts held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents were comprised of $320.0 million in money market funds. Our primary cash needs are for personnel-related expenses, selling and marketing expenses, and third-party cloud infrastructure expenses. Based upon our current levels of operations, we believe our operating cash flows provide sufficient liquidity to support liquidity and financing needs for at least the next twelve months. Our ability to continue to meet these requirements and obligations will depend on, among other things, our ability to achieve anticipated levels of revenue and cash flow from operations, and our ability to manage costs and working capital successfully. Additionally, our cash flow generation ability is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our working capital: As of, March 31, December 31, 2024 2023 ($ in thousands) Cash $ 755,827 $ 738,562 Restricted cash, current(1) 393 409 Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts 23,241 23,076 Deferred contract acquisition costs 17,177 15,198 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 29,804 26,244 Accounts payable 8,464 13,597 Accrued expenses 65,134 62,838 Operating lease liabilities 13,625 14,081 Deferred revenue 42,519 40,100 Total Working Capital $ 696,700 $ 672,873 34 ______________ (1)Restricted cash related to our required collateral to fund payroll and credit card obligations in the Australia entity. Working capital consists of current assets (including cash, current portion of restricted cash, accounts receivable, current deferred contract acquisition costs, current prepaid expenses and other current assets), less current liabilities (including accounts payable, accrued expenses, current lease liabilities, and deferred revenue, all of which is current). Statement of Cash Flow The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our beginning balance of cash, net cash flows provided by operating, investing and financing activities, and our ending balance of cash. For additional detail, see our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 ($ in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 26,182 $ 15,552 Investing activities (3,225) (1,631) Financing activities (5,737) 384 Net increase in cash and restricted cash $ 17,220 $ 14,305 Cash and restricted cash, beginning of period 739,657 386,916 Cash and restricted cash, end of period $ 756,877 $ 401,221 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $26.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily attributable to a net loss of $12.9 million adjusted for non-cash charges of $59.8 million and net cash outflows of $20.7 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $35.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, $13.2 million of prepaid marketing expense amortization, $4.0 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $3.9 million of amortization related to deferred contract acquisition costs, and $3.1 million of operating lease costs. Net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $7.2 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs related to increase in sales commissions resulting from the increase in revenues, a $6.8 million increase in prepaid expenses due to prepayments for cloud infrastructure and hosting costs, a $5.3 million decrease in accrued expenses and accounts payable due to timing of payments, and a $3.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities due to payments related to our operating lease obligations. The cash outflow was offset by cash inflows primarily from a $2.4 million increase in deferred revenue resulting from increased billings for subscriptions. Net cash provided by operating activities of $15.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to a net income of $4.3 million adjusted for non-cash charges of $24.4 million and net cash outflows of $13.1 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $13.2 million of prepaid marketing expense amortization, $3.3 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $3.5 million of amortization related to deferred contract acquisition costs, $1.8 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $3.3 million of operating lease costs. Net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $6.0 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs related to increase in sales commissions resulting from the increase in revenues, a $6.0 million increase in prepaid expenses due to prepayments for cloud infrastructure and hosting costs, a $3.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities due to payments related to our operating lease obligations, and a $0.4 million increase in accounts receivable due to an increase in customer billings. The cash outflow was offset by cash inflows primarily from a $1.0 million increase in deferred revenue resulting from increased billings for subscriptions and a $2.1 million increase in accrued expenses and accounts payable due to timing of payments. 35 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $3.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 consisted of $1.3 million purchases of property and equipment and $2.0 million of capitalized software development costs. Net cash used in investing activities of $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 consisted of $0.3 million purchases of property and equipment and $1.3 million of capitalized software development costs. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $5.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily consisted of approximately $3.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $2.5 million of proceeds from the employee stock purchase plan offset by $11.9 million used for the payment of employee tax obligations related to the net share settlement of stock-based compensation awards upon vesting. Net cash provided by financing activities of $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily consisted of approximately $0.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Cash Management We manage our operating cash management activities through banking relationships with our domestic and international subsidiaries and all of our cash requirements were serviced by the operating cash flows of our business. We diversify our cash deposits across a variety of well-established financial institutions based on ratings from nationally recognized rating organizations to reduce our exposure to counterparty and concentration risk. We expect a continued increase in our cash balances as our business continues to grow. We expect to continue to diversify our cash management strategy to primarily include money market funds, highly-liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, senior corporate bonds, and commercial paper to reduce our global exposure on banking deposits. Lease Obligations We enter into various noncancellable lease agreements for certain office space and equipment used in the normal course of business. Our noncancellable lease obligations as of March 31, 2024 were $53.1 million, with $13.9 million payable within 12 months. Other Contractual Obligations We enter into various noncancellable agreements with marketing vendors and various service providers. Our noncancellable obligations as of March 31, 2024 were $308.8 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 filed with the SEC on February 29, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this filing for a discussion about new accounting pronouncements adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.