Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In addition to historical information, this filing contains statements relating to future events or our future results. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by statute. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our future revenue, sustained, increasing, continuing or strengthening, or decreasing or weakening, demand for our products, the continuing transition from gold to copper wire bonding, replacement demand, our research and development efforts, our ability to identify and realize new growth opportunities, our ability to control costs and our operational flexibility as a result of (among other factors): projected growth rates in the overall semiconductor industry, the semiconductor assembly equipment market, and the market for semiconductor packaging materials; and projected demand for ball, wedge bonder, advanced packaging and surface mount technology equipment and for expendable tools. Generally, words such as may, will, should, could, anticipate, expect, intend, estimate, plan, continue, goal and believe, or the negative of or other variations on these and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this filing. We do not undertake to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ significantly from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, those described below and under the heading Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2015 (the Annual Report) and our other reports and registration statements filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in this report, as well as our audited financial statements included in the Annual Report. We operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks that may affect us. Future events and actual results, performance and achievements could differ materially from those set forth in, contemplated by or underlying the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they were made. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect actual results or changes in, or additions to, the factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Given those risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as predictions of actual results. Introduction Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. (the "Company" or "K&S") designs, manufactures and sells capital equipment and expendable tools used to assemble semiconductor devices, including integrated circuits (ICs), high and low powered discrete devices, light-emitting diodes (LEDs), and power modules. We also service, maintain, repair and upgrade our equipment. Our customers primarily consist of semiconductor device manufacturers, outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (OSATs), other electronics manufacturers and automotive electronics suppliers. We operate two main business segments, Equipment and Expendable Tools. Our goal is to be the technology leader and the most competitive supplier in terms of cost and performance in each of our major product lines. Accordingly, we invest in research and engineering projects intended to enhance our position at the leading edge of semiconductor assembly technology. We also remain focused on our cost structure through continuous improvement and optimization of operations. Cost reduction efforts remain an important part of our normal ongoing operations and are intended to generate savings without compromising overall product quality and service levels. Business Environment The semiconductor business environment is highly volatile, driven by internal dynamics, both cyclical and seasonal, in addition to macroeconomic forces. Over the long term, semiconductor consumption has historically grown, and is forecast to continue to grow. This growth is driven, in part, by regular advances in device performance and by price declines that result from improvements in manufacturing technology. In order to exploit these trends, semiconductor manufacturers, both integrated device manufacturers (IDMs) and OSATs, periodically invest aggressively in latest generation capital equipment. This buying pattern often leads to periods of excess supply and reduced capital spendingthe so-called semiconductor cycle. Within this broad semiconductor cycle there are also, generally weaker, seasonal effects that are specifically tied to annual, end-consumer purchasing patterns. Typically, 24 Table of Contents semiconductor manufacturers prepare for heightened demand by adding or replacing equipment capacity by the end of the September quarter. Occasionally, this results in subsequent reductions in the December quarter. This annual seasonality can occasionally be overshadowed by effects of the broader semiconductor cycle. Macroeconomic factors also affect the industry, primarily through their effect on business and consumer demand for electronic devices, as well as other products that have significant electronic content such as automobiles, white goods, and telecommunication equipment. Our Equipment segment is primarily affected by the industry's internal cyclical and seasonal dynamics in addition to broader macroeconomic factors that can positively and negatively affect our financial performance. The sales mix of IDM and OSAT customers in any period also impacts financial performance, as changes in this mix can affect our products' average selling prices and gross margins due to differences in volume purchases and machine configurations required by each customer type. Our Expendable Tools segment is less volatile than our Equipment segment. Expendable Tools sales are more directly tied to semiconductor unit consumption rather than capacity requirements and production capability improvements. We continue to position our business to leverage our research and development leadership and innovation and to focus our efforts on mitigating volatility, improving profitability and ensuring longer-term growth. We remain focused on operational excellence, expanding our product offerings and managing our business efficiently throughout the business cycles. Our visibility into future demand is generally limited, forecasting is difficult, and we generally experience typical industry seasonality. To limit potential adverse cyclical, seasonal and macroeconomic effects on our financial position, we have continued our efforts to maintain a strong balance sheet. As of October 3, 2015 , our total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $498.6 million , a $98.5 million decrease from the prior fiscal year end (related primarily to our share repurchase program and our Assemblon acquisition, offset in part by earnings). We believe this strong cash position will allow us to continue to invest in product development and pursue non-organic opportunities. On August 14, 2014 , the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program (the "Program") to repurchase up to $100 million of the Companys common stock on or before August 14, 2017 . The Company has entered into a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, to facilitate repurchases under the Program. The Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time and is funded using the Company's available cash. Under the Program, shares may be repurchased through open market and/or privately negotiated transactions at prices deemed appropriate by management. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under the Program will depend on market conditions as well as corporate and regulatory considerations. During the year ended October 3, 2015 , the Company repurchased a total of 6.4 million shares of common stock at a cost of $77.9 million under the Program. As of October 3, 2015 , our remaining stock repurchase authorization under the Program was approximately $21.5 million. On January 9, 2015, Kulicke & Soffa Holdings B.V. (KSH), the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Assemblon B.V. (Assemblon), a subsidiary of Assemblon Holding B.V. The cash purchase price of approximately $97.4 million (EUR 80 million ) consisted of $72.5 million for 100% of the equity of Assemblon and $24.9 million which was used by Assemblon to settle intercompany loans with its parent company. Assemblon is a leading technology solutions provider that, together with its subsidiaries, offers assembly equipment, processes and services for the automotive, industrial, and advanced packaging markets. The acquisition expands the Company's presence in automotive, industrial and advanced packaging markets. Technology Leadership We compete largely by offering our customers among the most advanced equipment and expendable tools available for the wire and wedge bonding processes. Our equipment is typically the most productive and has the highest levels of process capability, and as a result, we believe it has a lower cost of ownership compared to other equipment in its market. Our expendable tools are designed to optimize the performance of the equipment in which they are used. We believe our technology leadership contributes to the strong market positions of our ball bonder, wedge bonder and expendable tools products. To maintain our competitive advantage, we invest in product development activities designed to produce a stream of improvements to existing products and to deliver next-generation products. These investments often focus as much on improvements in the semiconductor assembly process as on specific pieces of assembly equipment or expendable tools. In order to generate these improvements, we often work in close collaboration with customers, end users, and other industry members. In addition to producing technical advances, these collaborative development efforts strengthen customer relationships and enhance our reputation as a technology leader and solutions provider. In addition to gold, silver alloy wire and aluminum wire, our leadership in the industry's use of copper wire for the bonding process is an example of the benefits of our collaborative efforts. By working with customers, material suppliers, and other equipment 25 Table of Contents suppliers, we have developed a series of robust, high-yielding production processes, which have made copper wire widely accepted and significantly reduced the cost of assembling an integrated circuit. Our leadership also has allowed us to maintain a competitive position in the latest generations of gold and copper ball bonders, which enables our customers to handle the leading technologies in terms of bond pad pitch, silicon with the latest node and complex wire bonding requirement. We continue to see demand for our large bondable area (LA) configured machines. This LA option is now available on all of our Power Series ( PS ) models and allows our customers to gain added efficiencies and to reduce the cost of packaging. We also leverage the technology leadership of our equipment by optimizing our bonder platforms, and we deliver variants of our products to serve emerging high-growth markets. For example, we have developed extensions of our main ball bonding platforms to address opportunities in LED assembly, in particular for general lighting. We expect the next wave of growth in the LED market to be high brightness LED for general lighting. We also believe there is an opportunity for growth in wire bonding sales at wafer level using our AT Premier PLUS . Our leading technology for wedge bonder equipment uses ribbon or heavy wire for different applications such as power electronics, automotive and semiconductor applications. The advanced interconnect capabilities of PowerFusion PS improve the processing of high-density power packages, due to an expanded bondable area, wider leadframe capability, superior indexing accuracy and teach mode. We have also completed the design and development of our next generation hybrid wedge bonder, Asterion, which was launched in March 2015. In all cases, we are making a concerted effort to develop commonality of subsystems and design practices, in order to improve performance and design efficiencies. We believe this will benefit us in maintaining our leadership position in the wedge bonding market and increase synergies between the various engineering product groups. Furthermore, we continually research adjacent market segments where our technologies could be used. Many of these initiatives are in the early stages of development and some have yielded results. Another example of our developing equipment for high-growth niche markets is our AT Premier PLUS . This machine utilizes a modified wire bonding process to mechanically place bumps on devices in a wafer format, for variants of the flip chip assembly process. Typical applications include complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) image sensors, surface acoustical wave (SAW) filters and high brightness LEDs. These applications are commonly used in most, if not all, smartphones available today in the market. We also have expanded the use of AT Premier PLUS for wafer level wire bonding for micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and other sensors. Our technology leadership and bonding process know-how have enabled us to develop highly function-specific equipment with best-in-class throughput and accuracy. This forms the foundation for our advanced packaging equipment development. We established a dedicated team to develop and manufacture advanced packaging bonders for the emerging 2.5 dimensional integrated circuit (2.5D IC) and 3 dimensional integrated circuit (3D IC) markets. By reducing the interconnect dimensions, 2.5D ICs and 3D ICs are expected to provide form factor, performance and power efficiency enhancements over traditional flip-chip packages in production today. High-performance processing and memory applications, in addition to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets, are anticipated to be earlier adopters of this new packaging technology. With the acquisition of Assemblon, we broadened our advanced packaging solutions for mass reflow ("APMR") to include flip chip, wafer level packaging ("WLP"), fan-out wafer level packaging ("FOWLP"), advanced package-on-package, embedded die, and System-in-Package ("SiP"). The acquisition has enabled us to diversify our business into the automotive, medical and industrial markets with advanced surface-mount technology ("SMT") pick and place solutions. We bring the same technology focus to our expendable tools business, driving tool design and manufacturing technology to optimize the performance and process capability of the equipment in which our tools are used. For all our equipment products, expendable tools are an integral part of their process capability. We believe our unique ability to simultaneously develop both equipment and tools is a core strength supporting our products' technological differentiation. 26 Table of Contents Products and Services We supply a range of bonding equipment and expendable tools. The following tables reflect net revenue by business segment for fiscal 2015, 2014, and 2013 : Fiscal 2015 2014 2013 (dollar amounts in thousands) Net revenues % of total net revenue Net revenues % of total net revenue Net revenues % of total net revenue Equipment $ 472,002 88.0 % $ 503,049 88.5 % $ 472,567 88.3 % Expendable Tools 64,469 12.0 % 65,520 11.5 % 62,371 11.7 % $ 536,471 100.0 % $ 568,569 100.0 % $ 534,938 100.0 % See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report for our financial results by business segment. Equipment Segment We manufacture and sell a line of ball bonders, wafer level bonders and heavy wire wedge bonders that are sold to semiconductor device manufacturers, OSATs, other electronics manufacturers and automotive electronics suppliers. Ball bonders are used to connect very fine wires, typically made of gold or copper, between the bond pads of the semiconductor device, or die, and the leads on its package. Wafer level bonders mechanically apply bumps to die, typically while still in the wafer format, for some variants of the flip chip assembly process. Heavy wire wedge bonders use either aluminum wire or ribbon to perform the same function in packages that cannot use gold or copper wire because of either high electrical current requirements or other package reliability issues. We believe our equipment offers competitive advantages by providing customers with high productivity/throughput, superior package quality/process control, and, as a result, a lower cost of ownership. 27 Table of Contents Our principal Equipment segment products include: Business Unit Product Name (1) Typical Served Market Ball bonders IConn PS PLUS Advanced and ultra fine pitch applications IConn PS PLUS LA Large area substrate and matrix applications IConn PS PLUS ELA Extended large area substrate and matrix applications IConn PS ProCu High-end copper wire applications demanding advanced process capability and high productivity IConn PS ProCu PLUS High-end copper wire applications demanding advanced process capability and high productivity IConn PS ProCu LA Large area substrate and matrix applications for copper wire IConn PS ProCu PLUS LA Large area substrate and matrix applications for copper wire IConn PS ProCu PLUS ELA Extended large area substrate and matrix applications for copper wire ConnX PS PLUS High productivity bonder for low-to-medium pin count applications ConnX PS LED LED applications ConnX PS LED PLUS LED applications ConnX PS PLUS LA Cost performance large area substrate and matrix applications ConnX PS PLUS ELA Cost performance extended large area substrate and matrix applications AT Premier PLUS Advanced wafer level bonding application Wedge bonders 3600 PLUS Power hybrid and automotive modules using either heavy aluminum wire or PowerRibbon 3700 PLUS Hybrid and automotive modules using thin aluminum wire 7200 PLUS Power semiconductors using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon 7200HD Smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon PowerFusion PS TL Power semiconductors using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon PowerFusion PS HL Smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon Asterion TM Power hybrid and automotive modules with extended area using heavy and thin aluminum (1) Power Series ( PS ) 28 Table of Contents Business Unit Product Name (1) Typical Served Market Advanced Packaging and Surface Mount Technology (SMT) APAMA C2S Thermo-compression for chip-to-substrate, chip-to-chip and high accuracy flip chip ("HA FC") bonding applications APAMA C2W Thermo-compression for chip-to-wafer, high accuracy flip chip ("HA FC") and high density fan-out wafer level packaging ("HD FOWLP") bonding applications Hybrid Series Advanced packages assembly applications requiring high throughput such as flip chip, wafer level packaging ("WLP"), fan-out WLP ("FOWLP"), embedded die, system-in-package ("SiP"), package-on-package ("POP"), and modules iX Series Advanced Surface Mount Technology ("SMT") applications requiring extremely high output of passive and active components iFlex Series Advanced SMT applications requiring multi-lane or line balancing solutions for standard or oddform passive and active components Ball Bonders A utomatic ball bonders represent the largest portion of our semiconductor equipment business. Our main product platform for ball bonding is the Power Series - a family of assembly equipment that is setting new standards for performance, productivity, upgradeability, and ease of use. Our portfolio of ball bonding products includes: The IConn PS PLUS : high-performance ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The IConn PS PLUS LA: high-performance large area ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The IConn PS PLUS ELA: high-performance extended large area ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The ConnX PS PLUS : cost-performance ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The ConnX PS PLUS LA: cost-performance large area ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The ConnX PS PLUS ELA: cost-performance extended large area ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The ConnX PS LED and ConnX PS LED PLUS : ball bonders targeted specifically at the fast growing LED market. The IConn PS ProCu and IConn PS ProCu PLUS : high-performance copper wire ball bonders for advanced wafer nodes at 28 nanometer and below. The IConn PS ProCu LA and IConn PS ProCu PLUS LA: high-performance large area copper wire ball bonders for advanced wafer nodes at 28 nanometer and below. The IConn PS ProCu PLUS ELA: high-performance extended large area copper wire ball bonders for advanced wafer nodes at 28 nanometer and below. The AT Premier PLUS : ball bonders which utilize a modified wire bonding process to mechanically place bumps on devices, while still in a wafer format for variants of the flip chip assembly process. Typical applications include CMOS image sensors, SAW filters, MEMS and high brightness LEDs. These applications are commonly used in most, if not all, smartphones available today in the market. Our Power Series products are setting new standards in wire bonding. Our ball bonders are capable of performing very fine pitch bonding, as well as creating the complex loop shapes needed in the assembly of advanced semiconductor packages and bonding on the latest silicon node-28 nanometer. Most of our installed base of gold wire bonders can also be retrofitted for copper applications through kits we sell separately. 29 Table of Contents Heavy Wire Wedge Bonders We are the leaders in the design and manufacture of heavy wire wedge bonders for the power semiconductor and automotive power module markets. Heavy wire wedge bonders may use either aluminum wire or aluminum ribbon to connect semiconductor chips in power packages, power hybrids and automotive modules for products such as motor control modules or inverters for hybrid cars. In addition, we see some potential use for our wedge bonder products in high reliability interconnections of rechargeable batteries in hybrid and electric automotive applications. Our portfolio of wedge bonding products includes: The 3600 PLUS : high speed, high accuracy wire bonders designed for power modules, automotive packages and other heavy wire multi-chip module applications. The 3700 PLUS : wire bonders designed for hybrid and automotive modules using thin aluminum wire. The 7200 PLUS : dual head wedge bonders designed specifically for power semiconductor applications. The 7200HD: heavy wire wedge bonders designed for smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or ribbon. The PowerFusion PS Semiconductor Wedge Bonders - Configurable in single, dual and multi-head configurations using aluminum wire and PowerRibbon TM : The PowerFusion PS TL: d esigned for low-cost, high volume power semiconductor applications. The PowerFusion PS HL and PowerFusion PS HL x : d esigned for advanced power semiconductor applications. The Asterion TM : latest generation hybrid wedge bonder. Larger area, higher speed and accuracy wedge bonders for power modules, automotive packages, battery applications and other aluminium wedge interconnect applications. While wedge bonding traditionally utilizes aluminum wire, all of our heavy wire wedge bonders may be modified to bond aluminum ribbon using our proprietary PowerRibbon process. Aluminum ribbon offers device makers performance advantages over traditional round wire and is being increasingly used for high current packages and automotive applications. Our PowerFusion PS series are driven by new powerful direct-drive motion systems and expanded pattern recognition capabilities. The advanced interconnect capabilities of PowerFusion PS improves the processing of high-density power packages, due to an expanded bondable area, wider leadframe capability, superior indexing accuracy and teach mode. In March 2015, we introduced Asterion TM , a hybrid wedge bonder that has the capabilities to handle a multitude of interconnect materials including large and small aluminum, copper wire, PowerRibbon, as well as aluminum copper-clad ribbon. Advanced Packaging and Surface Mount Technology Our APAMA (Advanced Packaging with Adaptive Machine Analytics) C2S (chip-to-substrate) bonder is designed for high accuracy and high throughput flip chip, thermo-compression bonding applications. It delivers die-stacking solutions for 2.5D and 3D or through silicon via ("TSV") ICs. In September 2015, we introduced the APAMA Chip-to-Wafer (C2W) bonder. The C2W system enables APAMA's high throughput architecture to be applied to 2.5D and 3D packages using silicon or glass interposers. The C2W dual head system also provides a highly adaptable manufacturing platform addressing applications, which require highly accurate die placement such as High Density FOWLP. The C2W platform, combined with the capacity of the C2S platform, enables the APAMA TCB systems to support assembly for the full range of stacked TSV products. With the acquisition of Assemblon, we have broadened our product offering with APMR solutions to address flip chip, WLP, FOWLP, POP, embedded die, SiP and modules markets. The acquisition also enables us to diversify our business while further expanding market reach into the automotive, medical and industrial segments with SMT pick and place solutions. Other Equipment Products and Services We also sell manual wire bonders, and we offer spare parts, equipment repair, maintenance and servicing, training services, and upgrades for our equipment through our Support Services business unit. Our K&S Care service is designed to help customers operate their machines at an optimum level under the care of our trained specialists. K&S Care includes a range of programs, offering different levels of service depending on customer needs. 30 Table of Contents Expendable Tools Segment We manufacture and sell a variety of expendable tools for a broad range of semiconductor packaging applications. Our principal Expendable Tools segment products include: Capillaries: expendable tools used in ball bonders. Made of ceramic and other materials, a capillary guides the wire during the ball bonding process. Its features help control the bonding process. We design and build capillaries suitable for a broad range of applications, including for use on our competitors' equipment. In addition to capillaries used for gold wire bonding, we have developed capillaries for use with copper wire to achieve optimal performance in copper wire bonding. In January 2015, we introduced Quantis TM QFN Capillary, our latest copper wire bonding capillary designed for QFN (Quad Flat No-lead) application. Dicing blades: expendable tools used by semiconductor manufacturers to cut silicon wafers into individual semiconductor die or to cut packaged semiconductor units into individual units. Bonding wedges: expendable tools used in heavy wire wedge bonders. Heavy wire wedge tools are used for both wire and ribbon applications. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, net revenue and expenses during the reporting periods, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate estimates, including but not limited to, those related to accounts receivable, reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, carrying value and lives of fixed assets, goodwill and intangible assets, valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, repatriation of un-remitted foreign subsidiary earnings, equity-based compensation expense and warranties. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. As a result, we make judgments regarding the carrying values of our assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Authoritative pronouncements, historical experience and assumptions are used as the basis for making estimates, and on an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies, which have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, reflect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition In accordance with ASC No. 605, Revenue Recognition , we recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, the collectability is reasonably assured, and customer acceptance, when applicable, has been received or we otherwise have been released from customer acceptance obligations. If terms of the sale provide for a customer acceptance period, revenue is recognized upon the expiration of the acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. Our standard terms are ex works (our factory), with title transferring to our customer at our loading dock or upon embarkation. We have a small percentage of sales with other terms, and revenue is recognized in accordance with the terms of the related customer purchase order. Our business is subject to contingencies related to customer orders, including: Right of Return : A large portion of our revenue comes from the sale of machines used in the semiconductor assembly process. Other product sales relate to consumable products, which are sold in high-volume quantities, and are generally maintained at low stock levels at our customer's facility. Customer returns have historically represented a very small percentage of customer sales on an annual basis. Warranties : Our equipment is generally shipped with a one-year warranty against manufacturing defects. We establish reserves for estimated warranty expense when revenue for the related equipment is recognized. The reserve for estimated warranty expense is based upon historical experience and management's estimate of future expenses. Conditions of Acceptance: Sales of our consumable products generally do not have customer acceptance terms. In certain cases, sales of our equipment have customer acceptance clauses which may require the equipment to perform in accordance with customer specifications or when installed at the customer's facility. In such cases, if the terms of acceptance are satisfied at our facility prior to shipment, the revenue for the equipment will be recognized upon shipment. If the terms of acceptance are satisfied at our customers' facilities, the revenue for the equipment will not be recognized until acceptance, which typically consists of installation and testing, is received from the customer. 31 Table of Contents Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are recognized in net revenue. Shipping and handling costs paid by us are included in cost of sales. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from our customers' failure to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. We are subject to concentrations of customers and sales to a few geographic locations, which could also impact the collectability of certain receivables. If global or regional economic conditions deteriorate or political conditions were to change in some of the countries where we do business, it could have a significant impact on our results of operations, and our ability to realize the full value of our accounts receivable. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in first-out basis) or market value. We generally provide reserves for obsolete inventory and for inventory considered to be in excess of demand. Demand is generally defined as 18 months forecasted future consumption for equipment, 24 months forecasted future consumption for spare parts, and 12 months forecasted future consumption for expendable tools. Forecasted consumption is based upon internal projections, historical sales volumes, customer order activity and a review of consumable inventory levels at customers' facilities. We communicate forecasts of our future consumption to our suppliers and adjust commitments to those suppliers accordingly. If required, we reserve the difference between the carrying value of our inventory and the lower of cost or market value, based upon projections about future consumption, and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than projections, additional inventory reserves may be required. The inventory reserve provision for Assemblon is determined based on our best estimate of future consumption for equipment and spare parts. This estimate is based on historical sales volumes, internal projections and market developments and trends. Accounting for Impairment of Goodwill The Company operates two reportable segments: Equipment and Expendable Tools. Goodwill was recorded for the acquisitions of Orthodyne Electronics Corporation ("Orthodyne") and Assemblon in 2009 and 2015, respectively. Accounting Standard Update 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment (ASU 2011-08), provides companies with the option to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If, after assessing the qualitative factors, a company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if a company concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value in the first step of the test, then a company is required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of the reporting unit's goodwill impairment loss, if any. In fiscal 2015, we chose to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to performing the quantitative evaluation of the fair value of the reporting unit, to compare against the carrying value of the reporting unit. As part of our annual evaluation of the goodwill, we perform an impairment test of our goodwill in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year to coincide with the completion of our annual forecasting and refreshing of our business outlook processes. On an ongoing basis, we monitor whether a "triggering" event has occurred that may have the effect of reducing the fair value of a reporting unit below its respective carrying value. Adverse changes in expected operating results and/or unfavorable changes in other economic factors used to estimate fair values could result in a non-cash impairment charge in the future. During the year ended October 3, 2015 , no triggering events occurred. Impairment assessments inherently involve judgment as to assumptions made about the expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, growth rates or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Although we believe the assumptions we have used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result. Indicators of potential impairment may lead us to perform interim goodwill impairment assessments, including significant and unforeseen customer losses, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, a significant adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant stock price decline or unanticipated competition. For further information on goodwill and other intangible assets, see Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. 32 Table of Contents Income Taxes In accordance with ASC No. 740, Income Taxes , deferred income taxes are determined using the liability method. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount we expect is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and our ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, if we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of our net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would decrease income in the period such determination was made. In accordance with ASC No. 740 Topic 10, Income Taxes, General (ASC 740.10), we account for uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in the Company's income tax return. Under ASC 740.10, we utilize a two-step approach for evaluating uncertain tax positions. Step one, or recognition, requires us to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. Step two, or measurement, is based on the largest amount of benefit, which is more likely than not to be realized on settlement with the taxing authority. Equity-Based Compensation We account for equity-based compensation under the provisions of ASC No. 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation (ASC 718). ASC 718 requires the recognition of the fair value of equity-based compensation in net income. Compensation expense associated with market-based restricted stock is determined using a Monte-Carlo valuation model, and compensation expense associated with time-based and performance-based restricted stock is determined based on the number of shares granted and the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of our stock option awards are estimated using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. The calculation of equity-based compensation costs requires us to estimate the number of awards that will be forfeited during the vesting period. We have estimated forfeitures at the time of grant based upon historical experience, and review the forfeiture rates periodically and make adjustments as necessary. In addition, the fair value of equity-based awards is amortized over the vesting period of the award and we have elected to use the straight-line method for awards granted after the adoption of ASC 718. In general, equity-based awards vest annually over a three year period. Our performance-based restricted stock entitles the employee to receive common shares of the Company on the three-year anniversary of the grant date (if employed by the Company) if return on invested capital and revenue growth targets set by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on the date of grant are met. If return on invested capital and revenue growth targets are not met, performance-based restricted stock does not vest. Estimated attainment percentages and the corresponding equity-based compensation expense reported may vary from period to period. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for a description of certain recent accounting pronouncements including the expected dates of adoption and effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of Operations for fiscal 2015 and 2014 The following table reflects our income from operations for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal (dollar amounts in thousands) 2015 2014 $ Change % Change Net revenue $ 536,471 $ 568,569 $ (32,098 ) (5.6 )% Cost of sales 277,379 295,015 (17,636 ) (6.0 )% Gross profit 259,092 273,554 (14,462 ) (5.3 )% Selling, general and administrative 131,808 113,514 18,294 16.1 % Research and development 90,033 83,056 6,977 8.4 % Operating expenses 221,841 196,570 25,271 12.9 % Income from operations $ 37,251 $ 76,984 $ (39,733 ) (51.6 )% Bookings and Backlog A booking is recorded when a customer order is reviewed and it is determined that all specifications can be met, production (or service) can be scheduled, a delivery date can be set, and the customer meets our credit requirements. We use bookings to evaluate the results of our operations, generate future operating plans and assess the performance of our company. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for revenue recognized in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate bookings differently or not at all, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Reconciliation of bookings to net revenue is not practicable. Our backlog consists of customer orders scheduled for shipment within the next twelve months. A majority of our orders are subject to cancellation or deferral by our customers with limited or no penalties. Also, customer demand for our products can vary dramatically without prior notice. Because of the volatility of customer demand, possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations and potential delays in product shipments, our backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of net revenue for any succeeding period. The following tables reflect our bookings and backlog for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal (in thousands) 2015 2014 Bookings $ 491,427 $ 595,565 As of (in thousands) October 3, 2015 September 27, 2014 Backlog $ 52,500 $ 79,100 Our net revenues for fiscal 2015 have decreased as compared to our net revenues for fiscal 2014 due to reduced customer demand. The semiconductor industry is volatile and our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. Customer demand for our products could continue to remain weak and lead to a decline in our net revenues. Net Revenue Approximately 91.2% and 94.4% of our net revenue for fiscal 2015 and 2014 , respectively, was for shipments to customer locations outside of the U.S., primarily in the Asia/Pacific region, and we expect sales outside of the U.S. to continue to represent the majority of our future revenue. 34 Table of Contents The following table reflects net revenue by business segment for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal (dollar amounts in thousands) 2015 2014 $ Change % Change Equipment $ 472,002 $ 503,049 $ (31,047 ) (6.2 )% Expendable Tools 64,469 65,520 (1,051 ) (1.6 )% Total net revenue $ 536,471 $ 568,569 $ (32,098 ) (5.6 )% Equipment The following table reflects the components of Equipment net revenue change between fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal 2015 vs. 2014 (in thousands) Price Volume $ Change Equipment $ 2,341 $ (33,388 ) $ (31,047 ) For fiscal 2015, the lower Equipment net revenue as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to lower volume of our ball bonders sales. This was partially offset by higher volume in our wedge bonders and our new APMR and SMT products. The lower volume for ball bonders sales was mainly attributable to the lower equipment utilization rate, and therefore lower demand from our customers. The lower volume was partially offset by the better pricing due to favorable customer mix. Expendable Tools The following table reflects the components of Expendable Tools net revenue change between fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal 2015 vs. 2014 (in thousands) Price Volume $ Change Expendable Tools $ (538 ) $ (513 ) $ (1,051 ) For fiscal 2015, the lower Expendable Tools net revenue as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to lower volume in wedge bonding tools business and a price reduction in our wire bonding tools business. Gross Profit The following table reflects gross profit by business segment for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal (dollar amounts in thousands) 2015 2014 $ Change % Change Equipment $ 221,961 $ 234,115 $ (12,154 ) (5.2 )% Expendable Tools 37,131 39,439 (2,308 ) (5.9 )% Total gross profit $ 259,092 $ 273,554 $ (14,462 ) (5.3 )% The following table reflects gross profit as a percentage of net revenue by business segment for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal Basis Point 2015 2014 Change Equipment 47.0 % 46.5 % 50 Expendable Tools 57.6 % 60.2 % (260 ) Total gross margin 48.3 % 48.1 % 20 Equipment The following table reflects the components of Equipment gross profit change between fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal 2015 vs. 2014 (in thousands) Price Cost Volume $ Change Equipment $ 2,341 $ (1,825 ) $ (12,670 ) $ (12,154 ) 35 Table of Contents For fiscal 2015, the lower Equipment gross profit as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to the lower volume of equipment sales and higher costs. The lower volume was mainly due to lower sales of ball bonders offset by higher volume in our wedge bonders and our new APMR and SMT products. The lower volume in ball bonders was attributable to the lower equipment utilization rate, and therefore lower demand from our customers. The higher costs were due to changes in the product mix on our ball bonders. The lower volume and higher costs were partially offset by better pricing due to favorable customer mix. Expendable Tools The following table reflects the components of Expendable Tools gross profit change between fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal 2015 vs. 2014 (in thousands) Price Cost Volume $ Change Expendable Tools $ (538 ) $ (682 ) $ (1,088 ) $ (2,308 ) For fiscal 2015, the lower Expendable Tools gross profit as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to lower volume from our wedge bonding business. Operating Expenses The following table reflects operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal Basis point 2015 2014 change Selling, general & administrative 24.6 % 20.0 % 460 Research & development 16.8 % 14.6 % 220 Total 41.4 % 34.6 % 680 Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) For fiscal 2015, higher SG&A as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to additional SG&A expenses of $24.6 million from our new APMR and SMT products and net unfavorable $0.5 million of restructuring cost and other severance expenses. This was partially offset by a decrease in incentive compensation of $6.8 million as a result of lower current fiscal year profit. Research and Development (R&D) For fiscal 2015, higher R&D expenses as compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to additional investment in the development of advanced packaging products. Income from Operations For fiscal 2015 , total income from operations was lower by $39.7 million as compared to fiscal 2014. This was due primarily to lower revenue for equipment sales and higher operating expenses as explained above. Interest Income and Expense The following table reflects interest income and interest expense for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal (dollar amounts in thousands) 2015 2014 $ Change % Change Interest income $ 1,637 $ 1,197 $ 440 36.8 % Interest expense $ (1,183 ) $ (1,048 ) $ (135 ) 12.9 % Interest income in fiscal 2015 was derived from short term investments and cash and cash equivalents balance. The higher interest expense for fiscal 2015 was attributable to the interest on financing obligation relating to the new building, which was incurred subsequent to the completion of the new building in December 2013 (Refer to Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report). 36 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table reflects the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal (in thousands) 2015 2014 Income from operations before income taxes $ 37,705 $ 77,133 Provision for income taxes (12,934 ) 14,145 Net income $ 50,639 $ 62,988 Effective tax rate (34.3 )% 18.3 % For fiscal 2015, the effective income tax rate decreased from fiscal 2014 by 52.6% due primarily to a net $19.7 million decrease of deferred tax liabilities on certain unremitted foreign earnings as a result of the change in permanent reinvestment assertion, and $4.0 million tax benefits from research and development expenditures, offset by lower profits in foreign jurisdictions and an increase in valuation allowance against certain foreign deferred tax assets. For fiscal 2014, the effective income tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate due primarily to a shift in earnings to tax jurisdictions with higher effective tax rates than the U.S. statutory rate and the impact of tax holidays, offset by an increase in deferred tax liabilities on unremitted earnings and additional domestic and foreign expenses or benefits related to returns filed in the period. Our future effective tax rate would be affected if earnings were lower than anticipated in countries where we are subjected to lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we are subjected to higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, changes in assertion for foreign earnings permanently or non-permanently reinvested as a result of changes in facts and circumstances could significantly impact the effective tax rate. During the year ended October 3, 2015, the Company is executing a business structure reorganization resulting in a change in its permanent reinvestment assertion outside the United States. Approximately $19.7 million of deferred tax liability was reversed and recorded as a tax benefit. We regularly assess the effects resulting from these factors to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized tax benefit with respect to certain unrecognized tax positions will increase or decrease during the next 12 months due to the expected lapse of statutes of limitation and/or settlements of tax examinations. We cannot practicably estimate the financial outcomes of these examinations. 37 Table of Contents Results of Operations for fiscal 2014 and 2013 The following table reflects our income from operations for fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal (dollar amounts in thousands) 2014 2013 $ Change % Change Net revenue $ 568,569 $ 534,938 $ 33,631 6.3 % Cost of sales 295,015 287,993 7,022 2.4 % Gross profit 273,554 246,945 26,609 10.8 % Selling, general and administrative 113,514 119,519 (6,005 ) (5.0 )% Research and development 83,056 61,620 21,436 34.8 % Operating expenses 196,570 181,139 15,431 8.5 % Income from operations $ 76,984 $ 65,806 $ 11,178 17.0 % Bookings and Backlog A booking is recorded when a customer order is reviewed and it is determined that all specifications can be met, production (or service) can be scheduled, a delivery date can be set, and the customer meets our credit requirements. Our backlog consists of customer orders scheduled for shipment within the next twelve months. A majority of our orders are subject to cancellation or deferral by our customers with limited or no penalties. Also, customer demand for our products can vary dramatically without prior notice. Because of the volatility of customer demand, possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations and potential delays in product shipments, our backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of net revenue for any succeeding period. The following tables reflect our bookings and backlog for fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal (in thousands) 2014 2013 Bookings $ 595,565 $ 497,335 As of (in thousands) September 27, 2014 September 28, 2013 Backlog $ 79,100 $ 52,100 Net Revenue Approximately 94.4% and 97.3% of our net revenue for fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively, was for shipments to customer locations outside of the U.S., primarily in the Asia/Pacific region, and we expect sales outside of the U.S. to continue to represent a substantial majority of our future revenue. The following table reflects net revenue by business segment for fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal (dollar amounts in thousands) 2014 2013 $ Change % Change Equipment $ 503,049 472,567 $ 30,482 6.5 % Expendable Tools 65,520 62,371 3,149 5.0 % Total net revenue $ 568,569 $ 534,938 $ 33,631 6.3 % 38 Table of Contents Equipment The following table reflects the components of Equipment net revenue change between fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands) Price Volume $ Change Equipment $ 9,224 $ 21,258 $ 30,482 For fiscal 2014, the higher Equipment net revenue as compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to the higher volume of both ball bonder and wedge bonder sales and a favorable product mix. The higher volume on ball bonders was driven primarily by higher demand for mobile devices. The higher volume on wedge bonders was driven primarily by sales of the new product family which was introduced in the third quarter of fiscal 2013. Expendable Tools The following table reflects the components of Expendable Tools net revenue change between fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands) Price Volume $ Change Expendable Tools $ (1,017 ) $ 4,166 $ 3,149 For fiscal 2014, the higher Expendable Tools net revenue as compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to higher volume. This was partially offset by price reduction in wire bonding tools business and wedge bonder tools business. The price reduction in wedge bonder tools business was primarily due to an adjustment of the pricing discounts given to certain distributors, which resulted in the decrease in the selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense and the revenue in our wedge bonder tools business, partially offset by favorable product mix. Gross Profit The following table reflects gross profit by business segment for fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal (dollar amounts in thousands) 2014 2013 $ Change % Change Equipment $ 234,115 $ 211,297 $ 22,818 10.8 % Expendable Tools 39,439 35,648 3,791 10.6 % Total gross profit $ 273,554 $ 246,945 $ 26,609 10.8 % The following table reflects gross profit as a percentage of net revenue by business segment for fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal Basis Point 2014 2013 Change Equipment 46.5 % 44.7 % 180 Expendable Tools 60.2 % 57.2 % 300 Total gross margin 48.1 % 46.2 % 190 Equipment The following table reflects the components of Equipment gross profit change between fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands) Price Cost Volume $ Change Equipment $ 9,224 $ (5,062 ) $ 18,656 $ 22,818 For fiscal 2014, the higher Equipment gross profit as compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to the higher volume of both ball bonder and wedge bonder sales and a favorable product mix as described above. This was partially offset by higher production costs for our ball bonders and wedge bonders, which was primarily due to product mix. 39 Table of Contents Expendable Tools The following table reflects the components of Expendable Tools gross profit change between fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands) Price Cost Volume $ Change Expendable Tools $ (1,017 ) $ 2,333 $ 2,475 $ 3,791 For fiscal 2014, the higher Expendable Tools gross profit as compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to the higher volume and lower cost. This was partially offset by price reduction in wire bonding tools business and wedge bonder tools business. The price reduction in wedge bonder tools business was primarily due to an adjustment of the pricing discounts given to certain distributors, which resulted in the decrease in the SG&A expense and the revenue in our wedge bonder tools business, partially offset by favorable product mix. Operating Expenses The following table reflects operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue for fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal Basis point 2014 2013 change Selling, general & administrative 20.0 % 22.3 % (230 ) Research & development 14.6 % 11.5 % 310 Total 34.6 % 33.8 % 80 Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) SG&A expense decreased $6.0 million during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to a decrease in amortization expenses of $3.9 million as the intangible assets relating to the Orthodyne customer relationships have been fully amortized, net favorable variance of $2.8 million in foreign exchange rates due to strengthening of the U.S dollar against foreign currency denominated liabilities which increased in the current period, and net impact of adjustment of the pricing discounts given to certain distributors of $1.5 million that resulted in a decrease in the SG&A expense and revenue. These decreases were partially offset by a gain of $2.1 million related to the curtailment of our Swiss pension plan in fiscal 2013. Research and Development (R&D) R&D expense increased $21.4 million during fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013, during which we recognized a Research Incentive Scheme for Companies grant of $0.7 million. In fiscal 2014, we invested an additional $20.7 million of materials and other expenses in the development of new products. Income from Operations For fiscal 2014, total income from operations was higher by $11.2 million. This was due primarily to higher revenue and margin for equipment sales as explained above. Interest Income and Expense The following table reflects interest income and interest expense for fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal (dollar amounts in thousands) 2014 2013 $ Change % Change Interest income $ 1,197 $ 883 $ 314 35.6 % Interest expense: cash $ (1,048 ) $ (21 ) $ (1,027 ) 100.0 % Interest income in fiscal 2014 was higher as compared to fiscal 2013 due to higher interest income derived from short term investments and a larger cash and cash equivalents balance. The higher interest expense for fiscal 2014 was attributable to the interest on financing obligation relating to the new building. 40 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table reflects the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate for fiscal 2014 and 2013: Fiscal (in thousands) 2014 2013 Income from operations before income taxes $ 77,133 $ 66,668 Provision for income taxes 14,145 7,310 Net income $ 62,988 $ 59,358 Effective tax rate 18.3 % 11.0 % For fiscal 2014, the effective income tax rate increased from fiscal 2013 by 7.3% due primarily to a shift in earnings to tax jurisdictions with higher effective tax rates, certain changes in estimates that were recorded upon filing tax returns in foreign jurisdictions and the release of a reserve in fiscal 2013. For fiscal 2013, the effective income tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate due primarily to tax from foreign operations at a lower effective tax rate than the U.S. statutory rate and the impact of tax holidays, release of tax reserves, offset by an increase for deferred taxes on un-remitted earnings as well as other U.S. current and deferred taxes. 41 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table reflects total cash and investments as of October 3, 2015 and September 27, 2014 : As of (dollar amounts in thousands) October 3, 2015 September 27, 2014 Change Cash and cash equivalents $ 498,614 $ 587,981 $ (89,367 ) Percentage of total assets 55.1 % 62.3 % The following table reflects summary Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow information for fiscal 2015 and 2014 : Fiscal (in thousands) 2015 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 87,875 $ 82,460 Net cash used in investing activities (94,109 ) (15,974 ) Net cash used in financing activities (84,459 ) (164 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,326 (129 ) Changes in cash and cash equivalents (89,367 ) 66,193 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 587,981 521,788 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period 498,614 587,981 Short-term investments 9,105 Total cash and investments $ 498,614 $ 597,086 Fiscal 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of net income of $50.6 million , non-cash adjustments of $11.4 million and working capital changes of $25.8 million . The change in working capital was primarily driven by a decrease in accounts receivable of $72.3 million . This was partially offset by decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $32.8 million and an increase in inventories of $ 14.5 million . The lower revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 as compared to fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 resulted in a reduction of accounts receivable and lower accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities. The increase in inventories was due to higher inventories held at year-end in anticipation of a scheduled scale down of manufacturing activity in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and the lower revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 as compared to fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. Net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to net cash outflow for the Assemblon acquisition of $93.2 million , purchase of short-term investments of $1.6 million and capital expenditures of $10.3 million . This was offset by the maturity of short-term investments of $10.8 million and proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment of $0.2 million . Net cash used in financing relates to the repurchase of common stock of $75.7 million and repayment of loans of $10.8 million related to the acquired business. This was offset by proceeds from the short term loans of $0.8 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $0.7 million . Fiscal 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of net income of $63.0 million, non-cash adjustments of $33.6 million and offset by the working capital changes of $14.1 million. The change in working capital was primarily driven by an increase in inventories of $14.6 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $9.3 million. This was partially offset by a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $8.9 million and a decrease in accounts payable of $1.0 million. The increase in inventories was due to higher inventories held at year-end in anticipation of a scheduled scale down of manufacturing activity in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. The higher accounts receivable was due to higher sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. The reduction in prepaid expenses and other current assets was due to net refunds of a $2.7 million deposit in relation to the Agreement to Develop and Lease (the ADL) following the execution of the Lease Agreement, and a reduction of $6.3 million due to tax refunds. Net cash used in investing activities was primarily the purchase of short-term investments of $18.2 million and capital expenditures of $10.1 million offset by the maturity of short-term investments of $12.4 million. 42 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities was primarily the reversal of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation arrangements of $0.8 million and the repurchase of common stock of $0.4 million offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $1.0 million. Fiscal 2016 Liquidity and Capital Resource Outlook We expect our fiscal 2016 capital expenditures to be between $10.0 and $11.0 million. Expenditures are anticipated to be primarily used for R&D projects, enhancements to our manufacturing operations in Asia and improvements to our information technology infrastructure. We believe that our existing cash and investments and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some based on normal operations of our business and others related to global economic conditions and industry uncertainties, which we cannot predict. We also cannot predict economic conditions and industry downturns or the timing, strength or duration of recoveries. We intend to continue to use our cash for working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. We may seek, as we believe appropriate, additional debt or equity financing which would provide capital for corporate purposes, working capital funding, additional liquidity needs or to fund future growth opportunities. The timing and amount of potential capital requirements cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including our actual and projected demand for our products, semiconductor and semiconductor capital equipment industry conditions, competitive factors, and the condition of financial markets. In 2014, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100 million of the Companys common stock on or before August 14, 2017 . The Company has entered into a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act to facilitate repurchases under the repurchase program. The repurchase program is effective immediately, may be suspended or discontinued at any time and will be funded using the Company's available cash. Under the program, shares may be repurchased through open market and/or privately negotiated transactions at prices deemed appropriate by management. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under this program will depend on market conditions as well as corporate and regulatory considerations. During the year ended October 3, 2015 , the Company repurchased a total of 6.4 million shares of common stock at a cost of $77.9 million under the repurchase program. As of October 3, 2015 , our remaining stock repurchase authorization under the repurchase program was approximately $21.5 million. In January 2015, KSH, the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, acquired Assemblon, a subsidiary of Assemblon Holding B.V., in an all cash transaction for approximately $97.4 million (EUR 80 million ). Other Obligations and Contingent Payments In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, certain obligations and commitments are not required to be included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations. These obligations and commitments, while entered into in the normal course of business, may have a material impact on our liquidity. Certain of the following commitments as of October 3, 2015 are appropriately not included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations included in this Form 10-K; however, they have been disclosed in the table below for additional information. 43 Table of Contents The following table reflects obligations and contingent payments under various arrangements as of October 3, 2015 : Payments due by fiscal period (in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years More than 5 years Current and long-term liabilities: Pension plan obligations $ 1,914 $ $ $ $ 1,914 Severance (1) 2,575 750 1,825 Operating lease retirement obligations 1,496 74 287 1,135 Long-term income taxes payable 3,388 3,388 Total Obligations and Contingent Payments reflected on the Consolidated Financial Statements $ 9,373 $ 74 $ 1,037 $ $ 8,262 Contractual Obligations: Inventory purchase obligations (2) $ 80,600 80,600 $ $ $ Operating lease obligations (3) 30,195 4,874 7,678 5,908 11,735 Total Obligations and Contingent Payments not reflected on the Consolidated Financial Statements $ 110,795 $ 85,474 $ 7,678 $ 5,908 $ 11,735 (1) In accordance with regulations in some of our foreign subsidiaries, we are required to provide for severance obligations that are payable when an employee leaves the Company. (2) We order inventory components in the normal course of our business. A portion of these orders are non-cancelable and a portion may have varying penalties and charges in the event of cancellation. (3) We have minimum rental commitments under various leases (excluding taxes, insurance, maintenance and repairs, which are also paid by us) primarily for various facility and equipment leases, which expire periodically through 2026 (not including lease extension options, if applicable). The annual rent and service charge for our corporate headquarters range from $4 million to $5 million Singapore dollars and is not included in the table above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Credit facility and bank guarantee On November 22, 2013, the Company obtained a $5.0 million credit facility with Citibank in connection with the issuance of a bank guarantee of $3.4 million Singapore dollars in connection with the lease agreement for our corporate headquarters. The bank guarantee is effective from December 1, 2013 to November 30, 2014. On November 19, 2014, the Company extended the expiration date of the bank guarantee to November 30, 2015 and increased the amount to $3.5 million Singapore dollars. As of October 3, 2015 , we did not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements, such as contingent interests or obligations associated with variable interest entities. 44 Table of Contents