Item 2. - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements In addition to historical information, this filing contains statements relating to future events or our future results. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by statute. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our future revenue, sustained, increasing, continuing or strengthening demand for our products, the continuing transition from gold to copper wire bonding, replacement demand, our research and development efforts, our ability to identify and realize new growth opportunities, our ability to control costs and our operational flexibility as a result of (among other factors): projected growth rates in the overall semiconductor industry, the semiconductor assembly equipment market, and the market for semiconductor packaging materials; and projected demand for ball, wedge and die bonder equipment and for expendable tools. Generally, words such as may, will, should, could, anticipate, expect, intend, estimate, plan, continue, goal and believe, or the negative of or other variations on these and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this filing. We do not undertake to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ significantly from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, those described below and under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2014 (the Annual Report) and our other reports and registration statements filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in this report, as well as our audited financial statements included in the Annual Report. We operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks that may affect us. Future events and actual results, performance and achievements could differ materially from those set forth in, contemplated by or underlying the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they were made. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect actual results or changes in, or additions to, the factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Given those risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as predictions of actual results. OVERVIEW Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. (the "Company" or "K&S") designs, manufactures and sells capital equipment and expendable tools used to assemble semiconductor devices, including integrated circuits (ICs), high and low powered discrete devices, light-emitting diodes (LEDs), and power modules. We also service, maintain, repair and upgrade our equipment. Our customers primarily consist of semiconductor device manufacturers, outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (OSATs), other electronics manufacturers and automotive electronics suppliers. We operate two main business segments, Equipment and Expendable Tools. Our goal is to be the technology leader and the most competitive supplier in terms of cost and performance in each of our major product lines. Accordingly, we invest in research and engineering projects intended to enhance our position at the leading edge of semiconductor assembly technology. We also remain focused on our cost structure through continuing improvement and optimization of operations. Cost reduction efforts remain an important part of our normal ongoing operations and are expected to generate savings without compromising overall product quality and service levels. Business Environment The semiconductor business environment is highly volatile, driven by internal dynamics, both cyclical and seasonal, in addition to macroeconomic forces. Over the long term, semiconductor consumption has historically grown, and is forecast to continue to grow. This growth is driven, in part, by regular advances in device performance and by price declines that result from improvements in manufacturing technology. In order to exploit these trends, semiconductor manufacturers, both integrated device manufacturers (IDMs) and OSATs, periodically invest aggressively in latest generation capital equipment. This buying pattern often leads to periods of excess supply and reduced capital spendingthe so-called semiconductor cycle. Within this broad semiconductor cycle there are also, generally weaker, seasonal effects that are specifically tied to annual, end-consumer purchasing patterns. Typically, semiconductor manufacturers prepare for heightened demand by adding or replacing equipment capacity by the end of the September quar 21 Table of Contents ter. Occasionally, this results in subsequent reductions in the December quarter. This annual seasonality can occasionally be overshadowed by effects of the broader semiconductor cycle. Macroeconomic factors also affect the industry, primarily through their effect on business and consumer demand for electronic devices, as well as other products that have significant electronic content such as automobiles, white goods, and telecommunication equipment. Our Equipment segment is primarily affected by the industry's internal cyclical and seasonal dynamics in addition to broader macroeconomic factors that can positively or negatively affect our financial performance. The sales mix of IDM and OSAT customers in any period also impacts financial performance, as changes in this mix can affect our products' average selling prices and gross margins due to differences in volume purchases and machine configurations required by each customer type. Our Expendable Tools segment is less volatile than our Equipment segment. Expendable Tools sales are more directly tied to semiconductor unit consumption rather than capacity requirements and production capability improvements. We continue to position our business to leverage our research and development leadership and innovation and to focus our efforts on mitigating volatility, improving profitability and ensuring longer-term growth. We remain focused on operational excellence, expanding our product offerings and managing our business efficiently throughout the business cycles. Our visibility into future demand is generally limited, forecasting is difficult, and we generally experience typical industry seasonality. To limit potential adverse cyclical, seasonal and macroeconomic effects on our financial position, we have de-leveraged and strengthened our balance sheet. As of December 27, 2014 , our total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $633.4 million , a $36.3 million increase from the prior fiscal year end. We believe this strong cash position will allow us to continue to invest in product development and pursue organic and non-organic opportunities. On August 14, 2014, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program (the "Program") to repurchase up to $100 million of the Companys common stock on or before August 14, 2017. The Company has entered into a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act to facilitate repurchases under the Program. The Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time and will be funded using the Company's available cash. Under the program, shares may be repurchased through open market and/or privately negotiated transactions at prices deemed appropriate by management. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under this program will depend on market conditions as well as corporate and regulatory considerations. During the three months ended December 27, 2014 , the Company repurchased a total of 0.6 million shares of common stock at a cost of $7.6 million under the Program. As of December 27, 2014 , our remaining stock repurchase authorization under the Program was approximately $91.8 million. On December 29, 2014, Kulicke & Soffa Holdings B.V. (KSH), the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a Share Sale and Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) with Assemblon Holding B.V. Pursuant to the Agreement, KSH has agreed to purchase all of the outstanding equity interests of Assemblon B.V. (Assemblon), a subsidiary of Assemblon Holding B.V., in an all cash transaction for EUR 80 million (approximately $98 million). Assemblon is a leading technology solutions provider that, together with its subsidiaries, offers assembly equipment, processes and services for the automotive, industrial, and advanced packaging markets. The acquisition expands the Company's presence in automotive, industrial and advanced packaging markets. The acquisition was completed on January 9, 2015 and was funded from the Company's available cash resources. Upon acquisition, Assemblon became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Technology Leadership We compete largely by offering our customers among the most advanced equipment and expendable tools available for the wire and wedge bonding processes. Our equipment is typically the most productive and has the highest levels of process capability, and as a result, has a lower cost of ownership compared to other equipment in its market. Our expendable tools are designed to optimize the performance of the equipment in which they are used. We believe our technology leadership contributes to the strong market positions of our ball bonder, wedge bonder and expendable tools products. To maintain our competitive advantage, we invest in product development activities designed to produce a stream of improvements to existing products and to deliver next-generation products. These investments often focus as much on improvements in the semiconductor assembly process as on specific pieces of assembly equipment or expendable tools. In order to generate these improvements, we often work in close collaboration with customers, end users, and other industry members. In addition to producing technical advances, these collaborative development efforts strengthen customer relationships and enhance our reputation as a technology leader and solutions provider. In addition to gold, silver alloy wire and aluminum wire, our leadership in the industry's use of copper wire for the bonding process is an example of the benefits of our collaborative efforts. By working with customers, material suppliers, and other equipment suppliers, we have developed a series of robust, high-yielding production processes, which have made copper wire widely accepted and significantly reduced the cost of assembling an integrated circuit. Based on our industry leading copper bonding processes and the continued high price of gold, we believe the demand for copper configured wire bonders is likely to remain solid. 22 Table of Contents Our leadership also has allowed us to maintain a competitive position in the latest generations of gold and copper ball bonders, which enable our customers to handle the leading technologies in terms of bond pad pitch, silicon with the latest node and complex wire bonding requirement. We continue to see demand for our large bondable area (LA) configured machines. This LA option is now available on all of our Power Series ( PS ) models and allows our customers to gain added efficiencies and to reduce the cost of packaging. We also leverage the technology leadership of our equipment by optimizing our bonder platforms, and we deliver variants of our products to serve emerging high-growth markets. For example, we have developed extensions of our main ball bonding platforms to address opportunities in LED assembly, in particular for general lighting. We expect the next wave of growth in the LED market to be high brightness LED for general lighting. We also believe there is an opportunity for growth in wire bonding sales at wafer level using our AT Premier Plus . Our leading technology for wedge bonder equipment uses ribbon or heavy wire for different applications such as power electronics, automotive and semiconductor applications. The advanced interconnect capabilities of PowerFusion PS improve the processing of high-density power packages, due to an expanded bondable area, wider leadframe capability, superior indexing accuracy and teach mode. We have also initiated the design and development of our next generation hybrid wedge bonder, which we currently expect to release in 2015. In both cases, we are making a concerted effort to develop commonality of subsystems and design practices, in order to improve performance and design efficiencies. We believe this will benefit us in maintaining our leadership position in the wedge bonding market and increase synergies between the various engineering product groups. Furthermore, we continually research adjacent market segments where our technologies could be used. Many of these initiatives are in the early stages of development and may become business opportunities in the future. Another example of our developing equipment for high-growth niche markets is our AT Premier Plus . This machine utilizes a modified wire bonding process to mechanically place bumps on devices in a wafer format, for variants of the flip chip assembly process. Typical applications include complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) image sensors, surface acoustical wave (SAW) filters and high brightness LEDs. These applications are commonly used in most, if not all, smartphones available today in the market. We also have expanded the use of AT Premier Plus for wafer level wire bonding for micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and other sensors. Our technology leadership and bonding process know-how have enabled us to develop highly function-specific equipment with best-in-class throughput and accuracy. This forms the foundation for our advanced packaging equipment development. We established a dedicated team to develop and manufacture advanced packaging bonders for the emerging 2.5 dimensional (2.5D IC) and 3 dimensional integrated circuit (3D IC) markets. By reducing the interconnect dimensions, 2.5D and 3D ICs are expected to provide form factor, performance and power efficiency enhancements over traditional flip-chip packages in production today. High-performance processing and memory applications, in addition to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets, are anticipated to be earlier adopters of this new packaging technology. With the acquisition of Assembl on, we have broadened our advanced packaging solutions to include flip chip, wafer level packaging (WLP), fan-out wafer level packaging (FOWLP), advanced package-on-package, embedded die, and System-in-Package (SiP). The acquisition also enables us to diversify our business in the automotive, medical and industrial markets with advanced surface-mount technology (SMT) solutions. We bring the same technology focus to our expendable tools business, driving tool design and manufacturing technology to optimize the performance and process capability of the equipment in which our tools are used. For all our equipment products, expendable tools are an integral part of their process capability. We believe our unique ability to simultaneously develop both equipment and tools is a core strength supporting our products' technological differentiation. 23 Table of Contents Products and Services We supply a range of bonding equipment and expendable tools. The following tables reflect net revenue by business segment for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 , respectively: Three months ended December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 (dollar amounts in thousands) Net revenues % of total net revenue Net revenues % of total net revenue Equipment $ 90,956 84.7 % $ 63,145 79.8 % Expendable Tools 16,482 15.3 % 15,968 20.2 % $ 107,438 100.0 % $ 79,113 100.0 % Equipment Segment We manufacture and sell a line of ball bonders, wafer level bonders and heavy wire wedge bonders that are sold to semiconductor device manufacturers, OSATs, other electronics manufacturers and automotive electronics suppliers. Ball bonders are used to connect very fine wires, typically made of gold or copper, between the bond pads of the semiconductor device, or die, and the leads on its package. Wafer level bonders mechanically apply bumps to die, typically while still in the wafer format, for some variants of the flip chip assembly process. Heavy wire wedge bonders use either aluminum wire or ribbon to perform the same function in packages that cannot use gold or copper wire because of either high electrical current requirements or other package reliability issues. In September 2014, we introduced the APAMA (Advanced Packaging with Adaptive Machine Analytics) C2S bonder, which is designed for performance and high accuracy applications, delivering die-stacking solutions for 2.5 Dimensional, 3 Dimensional or Through Silicon Via (TSV) integrated chips. We believe our equipment offers competitive advantages by providing customers with high productivity/throughput, superior package quality/process control, and, as a result, a lower cost of ownership. 24 Table of Contents Our principal Equipment segment products include: Business Unit Product Name (1) Typical Served Market Ball bonders IConn PS Advanced and ultra fine pitch applications IConn PS Plus Advanced and ultra fine pitch applications IConn PS LA Large area substrate and matrix applications IConn PS Plus LA Large area substrate and matrix applications IConn PS ProCu High-end copper wire applications demanding advanced process capability and high productivity IConn PS ProCu Plus High-end copper wire applications demanding advanced process capability and high productivity IConn PS ProCu LA Large area substrate and matrix applications for copper wire IConn PS ProCu Plus LA Large area substrate and matrix applications for copper wire ConnX PS Plus High productivity bonder for low-to-medium pin count applications ConnX PS LED LED applications ConnX PS VLED Vertical LED applications ConnX PS Plus LA Cost performance large area substrate and matrix applications AT Premier Plus Advanced wafer level bonding application Wedge bonders 3600Plus Power hybrid and automotive modules using either heavy aluminum wire or PowerRibbon 3700Plus Hybrid and automotive modules using thin aluminum wire 7200Plus Power semiconductors using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon 7200HD Smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon PowerFusion PS TL Power semiconductors using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon PowerFusion PS HL Smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon Advanced Packaging APAMA C2S Flip chip thermo-compression bonding applications (1) Power Series ( PS ) 25 Table of Contents Ball Bonders A utomatic ball bonders represent the largest portion of our semiconductor equipment business. Our main product platform for ball bonding is the Power Series - a family of assembly equipment that is setting new standards for performance, productivity, upgradeability, and ease of use. Our portfolio of ball bonding products includes: The IConn PS and IConn PS Plus : high-performance ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The IConn PS LA and IConn PS Plus LA: high-performance large area ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The ConnX PS Plus : cost-performance ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The ConnX PS Plus LA: cost-performance large area ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The ConnX PS LED and ConnX PS VLED: ball bonders targeted specifically at the fast growing LED market. The IConn PS ProCu Plus : high-performance copper wire ball bonders for advanced wafer nodes at 28 nanometer and below. The IConn PS ProCu Plus LA: high-performance large area copper wire ball bonders for advanced wafer nodes at 28 nanometer and below. The AT Premier Plus : ball bonders which utilize a modified wire bonding process to mechanically place bumps on devices, while still in a wafer format for variants of the flip chip assembly process. Typical applications include CMOS image sensors, SAW filters, MEMS and high brightness LEDs. These applications are commonly used in most, if not all, smartphones available today in the market. In September 2014, we introduced ConnX PS LED Plus , which offers higher performance and a larger bondable area for the LED market. Our Power Series products are setting new standards in wire bonding. Our ball bonders are capable of performing very fine pitch bonding, as well as creating the complex loop shapes needed in the assembly of advanced semiconductor packages and bonding on the latest silicon node-28 nanometer. Most of our installed base of gold wire bonders can also be retrofitted for copper applications through kits we sell separately. Heavy Wire Wedge Bonders We are the leaders in the design and manufacture of heavy wire wedge bonders for the power semiconductor and automotive power module markets. Heavy wire wedge bonders may use either aluminum wire or aluminum ribbon to connect semiconductor chips in power packages, power hybrids and automotive modules for products such as motor control modules or inverters for hybrid cars. In addition, we see some potential use for our wedge bonder products in high reliability interconnections of rechargeable batteries in hybrid and electric automotive applications. Our portfolio of wedge bonding products includes: The 3600Plus: high speed, high accuracy wire bonders designed for power modules, automotive packages and other heavy wire multi-chip module applications. The 3700Plus: wire bonders designed for hybrid and automotive modules using thin aluminum wire. The 7200Plus: dual head wedge bonders designed specifically for power semiconductor applications. The 7200HD: heavy wire wedge bonders designed for smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or ribbon. The PowerFusion PS Semiconductor Wedge Bonders - Configurable in single, dual and multi-head configurations using aluminum wire and PowerRibbon TM : The PowerFusion PS TL: d esigned for low-cost, high volume power semiconductor applications. The PowerFusion PS HL: d esigned for advanced power semiconductor applications. While wedge bonding traditionally utilizes aluminum wire, all of our heavy wire wedge bonders may be modified to bond aluminum ribbon using our proprietary PowerRibbon process. Aluminum ribbon offers device makers performance advantages over traditional round wire and is being increasingly used for high current packages and automotive applications. Our PowerFusion PS series are driven by new powerful direct-drive motion systems and expanded pattern recognition capabilities. The advanced interconnect capabilities of PowerFusion PS improves the processing of high-density power packages, due to an expanded bondable area, wider leadframe capability, superior indexing accuracy and teach mode. 26 Table of Contents In September 2014, we introduced the PowerFusion PS HL x , which has similar capabilities of the PowerFusion PS HL and extends the bondable width up to 105 millimeters. Advanced Packaging Bonders In September 2014, we introduced the APAMA C2S bonder, which is designed for performance and high accuracy applications, delivering die-stacking solutions for 2.5 Dimensional, 3 Dimensional or Through Silicon Via (TSV) integrated chips. Other Equipment Products and Services We also sell manual wire bonders, and we offer spare parts, equipment repair, maintenance and servicing, training services, and upgrades for our equipment through our Support Services business unit. Our K&S Care service is designed to help customers operate their machines at an optimum level under the care of our trained specialists. K&S Care includes a range of programs, offering different levels of service depending on customer needs. Expendable Tools Segment We manufacture and sell a variety of expendable tools for a broad range of semiconductor packaging applications. Our principal Expendable Tools segment products include: Capillaries: expendable tools used in ball bonders. Made of ceramic and other elements, a capillary guides the wire during the ball bonding process. Its features help control the bonding process. We design and build capillaries suitable for a broad range of applications, including for use on our competitors' equipment. In addition to capillaries used for gold wire bonding, we have developed capillaries for use with copper wire to achieve optimal performance in copper wire bonding. Bonding wedges: expendable tools used in heavy wire wedge bonders. Like capillaries, their features are tailored to specific applications. We design and build bonding wedges for use both in our own equipment and in our competitors' equipment. Dicing blades: expendable tools used by semiconductor manufacturers to cut silicon wafers into individual semiconductor die and to cut semiconductor devices that have been moulded in a matrix configuration into individual units. The Opto ceramic and Opto PCB package singulation blades for the LED market enable an improvement on package singulation quality, precision and productivity by providing a significantly longer life blade, and improved stability. We also offer ACS Pro Capillary, which is a new generation of copper capillary for advanced copper wire bonding applications. In March 2014, we expanded the ACS series capillaries through the introduction of ACS Max and ACS Lite. ACS Max Capillary and ACS Lite Capillary are the new generation of copper capillary for medium-pin count and low-pin count copper wire applications. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following tables reflect our income from operations for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : Three months ended (dollar amounts in thousands) December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 $ Change % Change Net revenue $ 107,438 $ 79,113 $ 28,325 35.8 % Cost of sales 52,704 40,748 11,956 29.3 % Gross profit 54,734 38,365 16,369 42.7 % Selling, general and administrative 25,427 23,102 2,325 10.1 % Research and development 19,581 17,471 2,110 12.1 % Operating expenses 45,008 40,573 4,435 10.9 % Income / (loss) from operations $ 9,726 $ (2,208 ) $ 11,934 (540.5 )% Our net revenues for the three months ended December 27, 2014 increased as compared to our net revenues for the three months ended December 28, 2013 largely due to higher customer demand. The semiconductor industry is volatile and our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. 27 Table of Contents Net Revenue Approximately 88.9% and 94.1% of our net revenue for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 , respectively, was for shipments to customer locations outside of the U.S., primarily in the Asia/Pacific region. We expect sales outside of the U.S. to continue to represent a substantial majority of our future revenue. The following tables reflect net revenue by business segment for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : Three months ended (dollar amounts in thousands) December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 $ Change % Change Equipment $ 90,956 $ 63,145 $ 27,811 44.0 % Expendable Tools 16,482 15,968 514 3.2 % Total net revenue $ 107,438 $ 79,113 $ 28,325 35.8 % Equipment The following table reflects the components of Equipment net revenue change between the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : December 27, 2014 vs. December 28, 2013 Three months ended (in thousands) Price Volume $ Change Equipment $ (433 ) $ 28,244 $ 27,811 For the three months ended December 27, 2014 , the higher Equipment net revenue as compared to the prior year period was primarily due to the higher volume of our ball bonders and wedge bonders. The higher volume of ball bonders and wedge bonders was primarily driven by the strong demand from our customers. Expendable Tools The following table reflects the components of Expendable Tools net revenue change between the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : December 27, 2014 vs. December 28, 2013 Three months ended (in thousands) Price Volume $ Change Expendable Tools $ (629 ) $ 1,143 $ 514 For the three months ended December 27, 2014 , the higher Expendable Tools net revenue as compared to the prior year period was primarily due to volume increase in our wire bonding tools business, and partially offset by the price reduction in our wire bonding tools business. Gross Profit The following tables reflect gross profit by business segment for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : Three months ended (dollar amounts in thousands) December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 $ Change % Change Equipment $ 44,857 $ 28,672 $ 16,185 56.4 % Expendable Tools 9,877 9,693 184 1.9 % Total gross profit $ 54,734 $ 38,365 $ 16,369 42.7 % 28 Table of Contents The following tables reflect gross profit as a percentage of net revenue by business segment for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : Three months ended Basis Point December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 Change Equipment 49.3 % 45.4 % 390 Expendable Tools 59.9 % 60.7 % (80 ) Total gross margin 50.9 % 48.5 % 240 Equipment The following table reflects the components of Equipment gross profit change between the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : December 27, 2014 vs. December 28, 2013 Three months ended (in thousands) Price Cost Volume $ Change Equipment $ (433 ) $ 633 $ 15,985 $ 16,185 For the three months ended December 27, 2014 , the higher Equipment gross profit as compared to the prior year period was primarily due to the higher volume of our ball bonders and wedge bonders. The higher volume of ball bonders and wedge bonders was primarily driven by the strong demand from our customers. Expendable Tools The following table reflects the components of Expendable Tools gross profit change between the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : December 27, 2014 vs. December 28, 2013 Three months ended (in thousands) Price Cost Volume $ Change Expendable Tools $ (629 ) $ 366 $ 447 $ 184 For the three months ended December 27, 2014 , the higher Expendable Tools gross profit as compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher volume and lower cost due to higher absorption of the fixed manufacturing costs. This was offset by the price reduction in our wire bonding tools business. Operating Expenses The following tables reflect operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : Three months ended Basis point December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 change Selling, general & administrative 23.7 % 29.2 % (550 ) Research & development 18.2 % 22.1 % (390 ) Total 41.9 % 51.3 % (940 ) Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) SG&A increased $2.3 million during three months ended December 27, 2014 as compared to the three months ended December 28, 2013 primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation of $2.7 million as a result of current fiscal quarter profit, and an increase in professional services of $0.5 million. This was partially offset by a $0.8 million provision of input tax receivables in prior year fiscal quarter. Research and Development (R&D) R&D expense increased $2.1 million during the three months ended December 27, 2014 as compared to the three months ended December 28, 2013 primarily due to additional investment in the development of new products. 29 Table of Contents Income from Operations For the three months ended December 27, 2014 , total income from operations was higher by $11.9 million as compared to the three months ended December 28, 2013 , which was a loss of $2.2 million . This was primarily due to higher revenue and margin for equipment sales as explained above. Interest Income and Expense The following tables reflect interest income and interest expense for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : Three months ended (dollar amounts in thousands) December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 $ Change % Change Interest income $ 262 $ 279 $ (17 ) (6.1 )% Interest expense $ (303 ) $ (119 ) $ (184 ) 154.6 % Interest income for the three months ended December 27, 2014 was derived from short term investments and cash and cash equivalents balance. Interest expense for the three months ended December 27, 2014 was attributable to the interest on financing obligation relating to the new building, which was incurred subsequent to the completion of the new building in December 2013 (Refer to Note 7 of Item 1). Provision for Income Taxes The following table reflects the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : Three months ended (in thousands) December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 Income / (loss) from operations before income taxes $ 9,685 $ (2,048 ) Provision for income taxes 1,843 (91 ) Net income / (loss) $ 7,842 $ (1,957 ) Effective tax rate 19.0 % 4.4 % For the three months ended December 27, 2014 , the effective income tax rate differed from the federal statutory tax rate primarily due to profits from foreign operations subject to a lower statutory tax rate than the U.S. statutory tax rate, and the impact of tax holiday, offset by an increase for deferred taxes on unremitted earnings, other U.S. deferred taxes and foreign withholding taxes. For the three months ended December 28, 2013 , the effective income tax rate differed from the federal statutory tax rate primarily due to profits from foreign operations subject to a lower statutory tax rate than the U.S. statutory tax rate, and the impact of tax holidays, offset by an increase for deferred taxes on unremitted earnings, other U.S. deferred taxes and additional foreign expenses or benefits related to returns filed in the period. The effective tax rate for the period ended December 27, 2014 of 19.0% increased from the effective rate for the fiscal period ended September 27, 2014 of 18.3% primarily higher volume of local sales, which has a higher statutory tax rate. The Company's future effective tax rate would be affected if earnings were lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where it has higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of its deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, anticipated tax benefits from research expenditures and changes in assertions for foreign earnings permanently or non-permanently reinvested as a result of changes in facts and circumstances could significantly impact the effective tax rate. The Company regularly assesses the effects resulting from these factors to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. 30 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table reflects total cash and investments as of December 27, 2014 and September 27, 2014 : As of (dollar amounts in thousands) December 27, 2014 September 27, 2014 Change Cash and cash equivalents $ 622,590 $ 587,981 $ 34,609 Percentage of total assets 67.1 % 62.3 % The following table reflects summary Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow information for the three months ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 : Three months ended (in thousands) December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 46,442 $ 37,249 Net cash used in investing activities (4,176 ) (8,729 ) Net cash (used in) / provided by financing activities (7,621 ) 258 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (36 ) 32 Changes in cash and cash equivalents $ 34,609 $ 28,810 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 587,981 521,788 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 622,590 $ 550,598 Three months ended December 27, 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of net income of $7.8 million , non-cash adjustments of $6.1 million and working capital changes of $32.5 million . The change in working capital was primarily driven by a decrease in accounts receivable of $49.3 million and decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $4.0 million . This was partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $18.2 million and increase in inventories of $2.9 million . The decrease in accounts receivables is in line with lower sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 due to variations in the timing of our customer orders within the seasonal cycle, as customers tend to add or replace equipment capacity by the end of the September quarter. The reduction in prepaid expenses and other current assets is due to lower goods and services tax of $3.8 million and refunds of $0.3 million of income taxes. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses is due to lower purchases and the Company's shutdown of certain operations in selective locations in the first quarter of 2015. The increase in inventories is due to higher purchases during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 in anticipation of an increase in production in the second quarter of fiscal 2015. Net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to capital expenditures of $2.5 million and purchase of short-term investments of $1.6 million . Net cash used in financing activities relates to the repurchase of common stock of $7.6 million . Three months ended December 28, 2013 The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of working capital changes, which provided $31.8 million driven by decreases in accounts receivables of $49.2 million due to cash collections and a lower level of sales, a reduction in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $7.2 million, a reduction in inventories of $1.0 million, and a increase of income tax payable of $0.5 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $26.0 million. In addition, the non-cash adjustments of $7.4 million, partially offset by net loss of $2.0 million, also contributed to the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities. The decrease in accounts receivables is in line with lower sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 due to variations in the timing of our customer orders within the seasonal cycle, as customers tend to add or replace equipment capacity by the end of the September quarter. The reduction in prepaid expenses and other current assets is due to refunds of $2.2 million of income taxes and $2.4 million of goods and services tax and the refund of cash deposit of $2.7 million in relation to the Agreement to Develop and Lease (the ADL) following the execution of the Lease Agreement. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses is due to lower purchases and the Company's shutdown of certain operations in selective locations in the first quarter of 2014. 31 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to capital expenditures of $5.4 million and increase in short term investments of $3.3 million. Net cash provided by financing activities relates primarily to proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Fiscal 2015 Liquidity and Capital Resource Outlook We expect our fiscal 2015 capital expenditures to be between $17.0 and $19.0 million. Expenditures are anticipated to be primarily used for R&D projects, enhancements to our manufacturing operations in Asia and improvements to our information technology infrastructure. We believe that our existing cash and investments and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some based on normal operations of our business and others related to global economic conditions and industry uncertainties, which we cannot predict. We also cannot predict economic conditions and industry downturns or the timing, strength or duration of recoveries. We intend to continue to use our cash for working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. We may seek, as we believe appropriate, additional debt or equity financing which would provide capital for corporate purposes, working capital funding, additional liquidity needs or to fund future growth opportunities. The timing and amount of potential capital requirements cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including our actual and projected demand for our products, semiconductor and semiconductor capital equipment industry conditions, competitive factors, and the condition of financial markets. On August 14, 2014, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100 million of the Companys common stock on or before August 14, 2017. The Company has entered into a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act to facilitate repurchases under the repurchase program. The repurchase program is effective immediately, may be suspended or discontinued at any time and will be funded using the Company's available cash. Under the program, shares may be repurchased through open market and/or privately negotiated transactions at then-prevailing market prices. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under this program will depend on market conditions as well as corporate and regulatory considerations. During the three months ended December 27, 2014 , the Company repurchased a total of 0.6 million shares of common stock at a cost of $7.6 million under the repurchase program. As of December 27, 2014 , our remaining stock repurchase authorization under the repurchase program was approximately $91.8 million. On December 29, 2014, Kulicke & Soffa Holdings B.V. (KSH), the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a Share Sale and Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) with Assemblon Holding B.V. Pursuant to the Agreement, KSH has agreed to purchase all of the outstanding equity interests of Assemblon B.V. (Assemblon), a subsidiary of Assemblon Holding B.V., in an all cash transaction for EUR 80 million (approximately $98 million). The acquisition was completed on January 9, 2015 and was funded from the Company's available cash resources. Upon acquisition, Assemblon became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Other Obligations and Contingent Payments In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, certain obligations and commitments are not required to be included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations. These obligations and commitments, while entered into in the normal course of business, may have a material impact on our liquidity. Certain of the following commitments as of December 27, 2014 are appropriately not included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations included in this Form 10-Q; however, they have been disclosed in the table below for additional information. The following table reflects obligations and contingent payments under various arrangements as of December 27, 2014 : 32 Table of Contents Payments due by fiscal period (in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years More than 5 years Current and long-term liabilities: Pension plan obligations $ 2,195 $ $ $ $ 2,195 Severance (1) 2,339 721 1,618 Operating lease retirement obligations 1,507 377 51 1,079 Long-term income taxes payable 3,403 3,403 Total Obligations and Contingent Payments reflected on the Consolidated Financial Statements $ 9,444 $ 377 $ 772 $ $ 8,295 Contractual Obligations: Inventory purchase obligations (2) $ 77,658 $ 77,658 $ $ $ Operating lease obligations (3) 28,537 3,743 6,332 4,859 13,603 Total Obligations and Contingent Payments not reflected on the Consolidated Financial Statements $ 106,195 $ 81,401 $ 6,332 $ 4,859 $ 13,603 (1) In accordance with regulations in some of our foreign subsidiaries, we are required to provide for severance obligations that are payable when an employee leaves the Company. (2) We order inventory components in the normal course of our business. A portion of these orders are non-cancellable and a portion may have varying penalties and charges in the event of cancellation. (3) We have minimum rental commitments under various leases (excluding taxes, insurance, maintenance and repairs, which are also paid by us) primarily for various facility and equipment leases, which expire periodically through 2026 (not including lease extension options, if applicable). The annual rent and service charge for the Initial Term for the Building under the ADL ranges from approximately $4 million to approximately $5 million Singapore dollars and is not included in the table above. In accordance with ASC No. 840, Leases ("ASC 840"), the Company was considered to be the owner of the Building during the construction phase due to its involvement in the asset construction. As a result of the Company's continued involvement during the lease term, the Company did not fulfill the criteria to apply sale-leaseback accounting under ASC 840 . Therefore, at completion, the building remained on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the corresponding financing obligation was reclassified to long-term liability. As of December 27, 2014 we recorded a financing obligation of $18.3 million . The financing obligation is not reflected in the table above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Credit facility On November 22, 2013, the Company obtained a $5.0 million credit facility with Citibank in connection with the issuance of a bank guarantee of $3.4 million Singapore dollars to the Landlord in connection with the corporate headquarter lease. The bank guarantee was effective from December 1, 2013 to November 30, 2014. On November 19, 2014, the Company extended the expiry date of the bank guarantee to November 30, 2015 and increased the amount to $3.5 million Singapore dollars.As of September 27, 2014, we did not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements, such as derivatives, contingent interests or obligations associated with variable interest entities. 33 Table of Contents