Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information. 9 Table of Contents Technology Leadership We compete in the General Semiconductor, Automotive & Industrial and Memory end markets by offering our customers advanced capital equipment, tools and solutions primarily addressing their semiconductor interconnect and device assembly needs. Our technology leadership directly contributes to the strong market positions of our ball bonder, wedge bonder, advanced solutions, and other leading tools, services and solutions. To maintain our competitive advantage, we invest in product development activities designed to enhance existing products and to deliver next-generation solutions. These investments often focus on progressing the broader assembly process in addition to advancing specific hardware and software features within our broadening capital equipment and aftermarket solutions portfolios. In support of this development effort, we typically work in close collaboration with customers, end users, and other industry members. In addition to producing technical advances, these collaborative development efforts strengthen customer relationships and enhance our reputation as a technology leader and solutions provider. In addition to gold, silver alloy wire and aluminum wire, our leadership in the industrys use of copper wire for the bonding process is an example of the benefits of our collaborative efforts. By working with customers, material suppliers, and other equipment suppliers, we have developed a series of robust, high-yielding production processes, which have made the use of copper wire for the bonding process widely accepted and significantly reduced the cost of assembling an integrated circuit. Our leadership also has allowed us to maintain a competitive position in the latest generations of ball bonders. Building on the success of RAPID, which is the first product in the smart bonder series to address the Industry 4.0 requirements, our RAPID Pro introduces additional functionality including the latest response-based processes. Our leading technology for wedge bonder equipment uses ribbon or heavy wire for different applications such as power electronics, automotive and semiconductor applications. The advanced interconnect capabilities of PowerFusionPS improve the processing of high-density power packages, due to an expanded bondable area, wider leadframe capability, indexing accuracy and teach mode. Our Asterion hybrid wedge bonder has demonstrated the capability to provide and enable an expanded bond area, laser bonding, new robust pattern recognition capabilities and extremely tight process controls. Recently, we launched the Asterion-PW, extending our leadership in power device applications with a fast and precise ultrasonic pin welding solution. Another example of our developing equipment for high-growth niche markets is our AT Premier PLUS. This machine utilizes a modified wire bonding process to mechanically place bumps on devices in a wafer format, for variants of the flip chip assembly process. Typical applications include complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) image sensors, surface acoustical wave (SAW) filters and high brightness LEDs. These applications are commonly used in most, if not all, of the smartphones available today in the market. We also have expanded the use of AT Premier PLUS for wafer level wire bonding for micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and other sensors. We recently introduced ATPremier MEM PLUS, a cutting-edge wafer level packaging solution, deploying innovative vertical wire technology to address emerging advanced memory applications within today's fast-paced semiconductor market. Engineered for high-volume, at-the-edge AI applications, our vertical wire technology has broken barriers to enable a new level of transistor-dense DRAM and NAND assembly. Our technology leadership and bonding process know-how have enabled us to develop highly function-specific equipment with high throughput and accuracy. This forms the foundation for our advanced packaging equipment development. With the launch of our APAMATM, APAMA PlusTM and APTURATM, we are also developing and manufacturing advanced packaging solutions for the emerging 2.5-dimensional integrated circuit (2.5D IC) and 3-dimensional integrated circuit (3D IC) markets. By reducing the interconnect dimensions, 2.5D ICs and 3D ICs are expected to provide form factor, performance and power efficiency enhancements over traditional flip-chip packages in production today. High-performance processing and memory applications, in addition to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets, are earlier adopters of this new packaging technology. Chiplets are emerging as an alternative methodology for developing advanced system-level designs. Chiplets of various functions and typically fabricated in different process nodes are mixed-and-matched and assembled in a package with the goal of speeding up time-to-market and reducing cost. This methodology of developing advanced system-level designs is increasing the complexity of packages. Our leadership in system-in-package (SiP), multi-chip module (MCM) and heterogeneous integration are well positioned to address the requirements of this emerging and growing trend. 10 Table of Contents The APTURATM is a highly capable thermo-compression bonding system which supports an ultra-fine-pitch fluxless direct-copper thermo-compression bonding process. With this system, we are well positioned to enable growth of chiplet-based advanced packages. We continue to expand technology partnerships with key customers and through engagements with institutions and consortiums, including the UCLA Center for Heterogeneous Integration and Performance Scaling (CHIPS) and the US-Joint semiconductor consortium led by Resonac Holdings Corporation. In respect of advanced dispensing, we recently announced the launch of ACELON, a next-generation precision dispensing solution designed for a broad range of semiconductor, Surface Mount Technology ("SMT"), and automotive assembly applications. This new advanced dispensing platform leverages the Company's market-leading machine architecture in wire bonding, which has already been successfully deployed by leading customers in critical high-reliability and high-volume production environments worldwide for decades. ACELON provides flexibility for handling larger substrates and complex assembly configurations through a significantly expanded working area. The system delivers industry-leading precision with sub-20m wet accuracy, ensuring consistent material placement for critical applications where dimensional tolerances are paramount. We are focused on driving innovation and delivering new solutions in our tools business, driving tool design and manufacturing technology to optimize the performance and process capability of the equipment in which our tools are used. For all our equipment products, tools are an integral part of their process capability. We believe our unique ability to simultaneously develop both equipment and tools is a core strength supporting our products' technological differentiation. Customers Our major customers include IDMs, OSATs, foundry service providers, and other electronic manufacturers and automotive electronics suppliers. Revenue from our customers may vary significantly year-to-year based on their respective capital investments and operating expense budgets, as well as overall industry trends. For additional information regarding our concentrations and customers, please see "Note 16: Commitments, Contingencies and Concentrations in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part II,