Item 2. - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements In addition to historical information, this filing contains statements relating to future events or our future results. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by statute. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our future revenue, sustained, increasing, continuing or strengthening, or decreasing or weakening, demand for our products, the continuing transition from gold to copper wire bonding, replacement demand, our research and development efforts, our ability to identify and realize new growth opportunities, our ability to control costs and our operational flexibility as a result of (among other factors): projected growth rates in the overall semiconductor industry, the semiconductor assembly equipment market, and the market for semiconductor packaging materials; and projected demand for ball, wedge bonder, advanced packaging and surface mount technology equipment and for expendable tools. Generally, words such as may, will, should, could, anticipate, expect, intend, estimate, plan, continue, goal and believe, or the negative of or other variations on these and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this filing. We do not undertake to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ significantly from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, those described below and under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2015 (the Annual Report) and our other reports and registration statements filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in this report, as well as our audited financial statements included in the Annual Report. We operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks that may affect us. Future events and actual results, performance and achievements could differ materially from those set forth in, contemplated by or underlying the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they were made. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect actual results or changes in, or additions to, the factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Given those risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as predictions of actual results. OVERVIEW Kulicke and Soffa Industries, Inc. (the "Company" or "K&S") designs, manufactures and sells capital equipment and expendable tools used to assemble semiconductor devices, including integrated circuits (ICs), high and low powered discrete devices, light-emitting diodes (LEDs), and power modules. We also service, maintain, repair and upgrade our equipment. Our customers primarily consist of semiconductor device manufacturers, outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (OSATs), other electronics manufacturers and automotive electronics suppliers. We operate two main business segments, Equipment and Expendable Tools. Our goal is to be the technology leader and the most competitive supplier in terms of cost and performance in each of our major product lines. Accordingly, we invest in research and engineering projects intended to enhance our position at the leading edge of semiconductor assembly technology. We also remain focused on our cost structure through continuing improvement and optimization of operations. Cost reduction efforts remain an important part of our normal ongoing operations and are expected to generate savings without compromising overall product quality and service levels. 25 Table of Contents Business Environment The semiconductor business environment is highly volatile, driven by internal dynamics, both cyclical and seasonal, in addition to macroeconomic forces. Over the long term, semiconductor consumption has historically grown, and is forecast to continue to grow. This growth is driven, in part, by regular advances in device performance and by price declines that result from improvements in manufacturing technology. In order to exploit these trends, semiconductor manufacturers, both integrated device manufacturers (IDMs) and OSATs, periodically invest aggressively in latest generation capital equipment. This buying pattern often leads to periods of excess supply and reduced capital spendingthe so-called semiconductor cycle. Within this broad semiconductor cycle there are also, generally weaker, seasonal effects that are specifically tied to annual, end-consumer purchasing patterns. Typically, semiconductor manufacturers prepare for heightened demand by adding or replacing equipment capacity by the end of the September quarter. Occasionally, this results in subsequent reductions in the December quarter. This annual seasonality can occasionally be overshadowed by effects of the broader semiconductor cycle. Macroeconomic factors also affect the industry, primarily through their effect on business and consumer demand for electronic devices, as well as other products that have significant electronic content such as automobiles, white goods, and telecommunication equipment. Our Equipment segment is primarily affected by the industry's internal cyclical and seasonal dynamics in addition to broader macroeconomic factors that can positively or negatively affect our financial performance. The sales mix of IDM and OSAT customers in any period also impacts financial performance, as changes in this mix can affect our products' average selling prices and gross margins due to differences in volume purchases and machine configurations required by each customer type. Our Expendable Tools segment has historically been less volatile than our Equipment segment. Expendable Tools sales are more directly tied to semiconductor unit consumption rather than capacity requirements and production capability improvements. We continue to position our business to leverage our research and development leadership and innovation and to focus our efforts on mitigating volatility, improving profitability and ensuring longer-term growth. We remain focused on operational excellence, expanding our product offerings and managing our business efficiently throughout the business cycles. Our visibility into future demand is generally limited, forecasting is difficult, and we generally experience typical industry seasonality. To limit potential adverse cyclical, seasonal and macroeconomic effects on our financial position, we have continued our efforts to maintain a strong balance sheet. As of January 2, 2016 , our total cash and cash equivalents were $492.9 million , a $5.7 million decrease from the prior fiscal year end (related primarily to our common stock repurchase program, offset in part by working capital changes since the prior year end). We believe this strong cash position will allow us to continue to invest in product development and pursue non-organic opportunities. On August 14, 2014, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program (the "Program") to repurchase up to $100 million of the Companys common stock on or before August 14, 2017. The Company has entered into a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act to facilitate repurchases under the Program. The Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time and is funded using the Company's available cash. Under the Program, shares may be repurchased through open market and/or privately negotiated transactions at prices deemed appropriate by management. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under the Program depend on market conditions as well as corporate and regulatory considerations. During the three months ended January 2, 2016 , the Company repurchased a total of 1.2 million shares of common stock at a cost of $12.8 million under the Program. As of January 2, 2016 , our remaining stock repurchase authorization under the Program was approximately $ 8.7 million. On January 9, 2015, Kulicke & Soffa Holdings B.V. (KSH), the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Assemblon B.V. (Assemblon), a subsidiary of Assemblon Holding B.V.. The cash purchase price of approximately $97.4 million (EUR 80 million) consisted of $72.5 million for 100% of the equity of Assemblon and $24.9 million which was used by Assemblon to settle intercompany loans with its parent company. Assemblon is a leading technology solutions provider that, together with its subsidiaries, offers assembly equipment, processes and services for the automotive, industrial, and advanced packaging markets. The acquisition expands the Company's presence in automotive, industrial and advanced packaging markets. Technology Leadership We compete largely by offering our customers among the most advanced equipment and expendable tools available for the interconnect processes. Our equipment is typically the most productive and has the highest levels of process capability, and as a result, we believe it has a lower cost of ownership compared to other equipment in its market. Our expendable tools are designed to optimize the performance of the equipment in which they are used. We believe our technology leadership contributes to the strong market positions of our ball bonder, wedge bonder and expendable tools products. To maintain our competitive advantage, we invest in product development activities designed to produce a stream of improvements to existing products and to deliver next-generation products. These investments often focus as much on improvements in the semiconductor assembly process as on 26 Table of Contents specific pieces of assembly equipment or expendable tools. In order to generate these improvements, we often work in close collaboration with customers, end users, and other industry members. In addition to producing technical advances, these collaborative development efforts strengthen customer relationships and enhance our reputation as a technology leader and solutions provider. In addition to gold, silver alloy wire and aluminum wire, our leadership in the industry's use of copper wire for the bonding process is an example of the benefits of our collaborative efforts. By working with customers, material suppliers, and other equipment suppliers, we have developed a series of robust, high-yielding production processes, which have made copper wire widely accepted and significantly reduced the cost of assembling an integrated circuit. Our leadership also has allowed us to maintain a competitive position in the latest generations of gold and copper ball bonders, which enables our customers to handle the leading technologies in terms of bond pad pitch, silicon with the latest node and complex wire bonding requirement. We continue to see demand for our extended large bondable area (ELA) configured machines. This ELA option is now available on all of our Power Series ( PS ) models and allows our customers to gain added efficiencies and to reduce the cost of packaging. We also leverage the technology leadership of our equipment by optimizing our bonder platforms, and we deliver variants of our products to serve emerging high-growth markets. For example, we have developed extensions of our main ball bonding platforms to address opportunities in memory assembly, in particular for NAND Flash storage. We expect the growth in the memory market to be in the solid-state drive. Our leading technology for wedge bonder equipment uses ribbon or heavy wire for different applications such as power electronics, automotive and semiconductor applications. The advanced interconnect capabilities of PowerFusion PS improve the processing of high-density power packages, due to an expanded bondable area, wider leadframe capability, superior indexing accuracy and teach mode. We have also completed the design and development of our next generation hybrid wedge bonder, Asterion. In all cases, we are making a concerted effort to develop commonality of subsystems and design practices, in order to improve performance and design efficiencies. We believe this will benefit us in maintaining our leadership position in the wedge bonding market and increase synergies between the various engineering product groups. Furthermore, we continually research adjacent market segments where our technologies could be used. Many of these initiatives are in the early stages of development and some have yielded results. Another example of our developing equipment for high-growth niche markets is our AT Premier PLUS . This machine utilizes a modified wire bonding process to mechanically place bumps on devices in a wafer format, for variants of the flip chip assembly process. Typical applications include complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) image sensors, surface acoustical wave (SAW) filters and high brightness LEDs. These applications are commonly used in most, if not all, smartphones available today in the market. We also have expanded the use of AT Premier PLUS for wafer level wire bonding for micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and other sensors. Our technology leadership and bonding process know-how have enabled us to develop highly function-specific equipment with best-in-class throughput and accuracy. This forms the foundation for our advanced packaging equipment development. We established a dedicated team to develop and manufacture advanced packaging bonders for the emerging 2.5 dimensional integrated circuit (2.5D IC) and 3 dimensional integrated circuit (3D IC) markets. By reducing the interconnect dimensions, 2.5D ICs and 3D ICs are expected to provide form factor, performance and power efficiency enhancements over traditional flip-chip packages in production today. High-performance processing and memory applications, in addition to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets, are anticipated to be earlier adopters of this new packaging technology. With the acquisition of Assemblon, we broadened our advanced packaging solutions for mass reflow ("APMR") to include flip chip, wafer level packaging ("WLP"), fan-out wafer level packaging ("FOWLP"), advanced package-on-package, embedded die, and System-in-Package ("SiP"). The acquisition also enables us to diversify our business into the automotive, medical and industrial markets with advanced surface-mount technology ("SMT") pick and place solutions. We bring the same technology focus to our expendable tools business, driving tool design and manufacturing technology to optimize the performance and process capability of the equipment in which our tools are used. For all our equipment products, expendable tools are an integral part of their process capability. We believe our unique ability to simultaneously develop both equipment and tools is a core strength supporting our products' technological differentiation. 27 Table of Contents Products and Services We supply a range of bonding equipment and expendable tools. The following table reflects net revenue by business segment for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 , respectively: Three months ended January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 (dollar amounts in thousands) Net revenues % of total net revenue Net revenues % of total net revenue Equipment $ 92,974 85.7 % $ 90,956 84.7 % Expendable Tools 15,560 14.3 % 16,482 15.3 % $ 108,534 100.0 % $ 107,438 100.0 % Equipment Segment We manufacture and sell a line of ball bonders, wafer level bonders, wedge bonders, advanced packaging and surface mount technology equipment that are sold to semiconductor device manufacturers, OSATs, other electronics manufacturers and automotive electronics suppliers. Ball bonders are used to connect very fine wires, typically made of gold or copper, between the bond pads of the semiconductor device, or die, and the leads on its package. Wafer level bonders mechanically apply bumps to die, typically while still in the wafer format, for some variants of the flip chip assembly process. Wedge bonders use either aluminum wire or ribbon to perform the same function in packages that cannot use gold or copper wire because of either high electrical current requirements or other package reliability issues. We believe our equipment offers competitive advantages by providing customers with high productivity/throughput, superior package quality/process control, and, as a result, a lower cost of ownership. 28 Table of Contents Our principal Equipment segment products include: Business Line Product Name (1) Typical Served Market Ball bonders IConn PS PLUS series (2) (3) (4) Advanced and ultra fine pitch applications IConn PS ProCu series (2) (3) High-end copper wire applications demanding advanced process capability and high productivity IConn PS ProCu PLUS series (2) (3) (4) High-end copper wire applications demanding advanced process capability and high productivity IConn PS MEM PLUS series (2) (3) (4) Memory applications ConnX PS PLUS series (2) (3) (4) High productivity bonder for low-to-medium pin count applications ConnX PS LED ConnX PS LED PLUS LED applications AT Premier PLUS Advanced wafer level bonding application Wedge bonders 3600 PLUS Power hybrid and automotive modules using either heavy aluminum wire or PowerRibbon 3700 PLUS Hybrid and automotive modules using thin aluminum wire 7200 PLUS Power semiconductors using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon 7200HD Smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon PowerFusion PS TL Power semiconductors using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon PowerFusion PS HL Smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or PowerRibbon Asterion TM Power hybrid and automotive modules with extended area using heavy and thin aluminum (1) Power Series ( PS ) (2) Standard version (3) Large area version (4) Extended large area version 29 Table of Contents Business Line Product Name (1) Typical Served Market Advanced Packaging and Surface Mount Technology APAMA C2S (APLR) Thermo-compression for chip-to-substrate, chip-to-chip and high accuracy flip chip ("HA FC") bonding applications APAMA C2W (APLR) Thermo-compression for chip-to-wafer, HA FC and high density fan-out wafer level packaging ("HD FOWLP") bonding applications Hybrid Series (APMR) Advanced packages assembly applications requiring high throughput such as flip chip, WLP, FOWLP, embedded die, SiP, package-on-package ("POP"), and modules iX Series (SMT) Advanced SMT applications requiring extremely high output of passive and active components iFlex Series (SMT) Advanced SMT applications requiring multi-lane or line balancing solutions for standard or oddform passive and active components Ball Bonders A utomatic ball bonders represent the largest portion of our semiconductor equipment business. Our main product platform for ball bonding is the Power Series - a family of assembly equipment that is setting new standards for performance, productivity, upgradeability, and ease of use. Our portfolio of ball bonding products includes: The IConn PS PLUS series: high-performance ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The IConn PS ProCu series and IConn PS ProCu PLUS series: high-performance copper wire ball bonders for advanced wafer nodes at 28 nanometer and below. The IConn PS MEM PLUS series: ball bonders designed for the assembly of stacked memory devices. The ConnX PS PLUS series: cost-performance ball bonders which can be configured for either gold or copper wire. The ConnX PS LED and ConnX PS LED PLUS : ball bonders targeted specifically at the fast growing LED market. The AT Premier PLUS : ball bonders which utilize a modified wire bonding process to mechanically place bumps on devices, while still in a wafer format for variants of the flip chip assembly process. Typical applications include CMOS image sensors, SAW filters, MEMS and high brightness LEDs. These applications are commonly used in most, if not all, smartphones available today in the market. Our Power Series products are setting new standards in wire bonding. Our ball bonders are capable of performing very fine pitch bonding, as well as creating the complex loop shapes needed in the assembly of advanced semiconductor packages and bonding on the latest silicon node-28 nanometer. Most of our installed base of gold wire bonders can also be retrofitted for copper applications through kits we sell separately. Wedge Bonders We are the leaders in the design and manufacture of wedge bonders for the power semiconductor and automotive power module markets. Wedge bonders may use either aluminum wire or aluminum ribbon to connect semiconductor chips in power packages, power hybrids and automotive modules for products such as motor control modules or inverters for hybrid cars. In addition, we see some potential use for our wedge bonder products in high reliability interconnections of rechargeable batteries in hybrid and electric automotive applications. 30 Table of Contents Our portfolio of wedge bonding products includes: The 3600 PLUS : high speed, high accuracy wire bonders designed for power modules, automotive packages and other heavy wire multi-chip module applications. The 3700 PLUS : wire bonders designed for hybrid and automotive modules using thin aluminum wire. The 7200 PLUS : dual head wedge bonders designed specifically for power semiconductor applications. The 7200HD: heavy wire wedge bonders designed for smaller power packages using either aluminum wire or ribbon. The PowerFusion PS Semiconductor Wedge Bonders - Configurable in single, dual and multi-head configurations using aluminum wire and PowerRibbon TM : The PowerFusion PS TL: d esigned for single row leadframe and high volume power semiconductor applications. The PowerFusion PS HL and PowerFusion PS HL x : d esigned for advanced power semiconductor applications. The Asterion TM : latest generation hybrid wedge bonder. Larger area, higher speed and accuracy wedge bonders for power modules, automotive packages, battery applications and other aluminium wedge interconnect applications. While wedge bonding traditionally utilizes aluminum wire, all of our wedge bonders may be modified to bond aluminum ribbon using our proprietary PowerRibbon process. Aluminum ribbon offers device makers performance advantages over traditional round wire and is being increasingly used for high current packages and automotive applications. Our PowerFusion PS series are driven by new powerful direct-drive motion systems and expanded pattern recognition capabilities. The advanced interconnect capabilities of PowerFusion PS improves the processing of high-density power packages, due to an expanded bondable area, wider leadframe capability, superior indexing accuracy and teach mode. Advanced Packaging and Surface Mount Technology Our APAMA (Advanced Packaging with Adaptive Machine Analytics) C2S (chip-to-substrate) bonder is designed for high accuracy and high throughput flip chip, thermo-compression bonding applications. It delivers die-stacking solutions for 2.5D and 3D or through silicon via ("TSV") ICs. In September 2015, we introduced the APAMA Chip-to-Wafer (C2W) bonder. The C2W system enables APAMA's high throughput architecture to be applied to 2.5D and 3D packages using silicon or glass interposers. The C2W dual head system also provides a highly adaptable manufacturing platform addressing applications that require highly accurate die placement such as High Density FOWLP. The C2W platform, combined with the capacity of the C2S platform, enables the APAMA TCB systems to support assembly for the full range of stacked TSV products. With the acquisition of Assemblon, we have broadened our product offering with APMR solutions to address flip chip, WLP, FOWLP, POP, embedded die, SiP and modules markets. The acquisition also enables us to diversify our business while further expanding market reach into the automotive, medical and industrial segments with SMT pick and place solutions. Other Equipment Products and Services We also offer spare parts, equipment repair, maintenance and servicing, training services, and upgrades for our equipment through our Support Services business unit. Our K&S Care service is designed to help customers operate their machines at an optimum level under the care of our trained specialists. K&S Care includes a range of programs, offering different levels of service depending on customer needs. Expendable Tools Segment We manufacture and sell a variety of expendable tools for a broad range of semiconductor packaging applications. Our principal Expendable Tools segment products include: Capillaries: expendable tools used in ball bonders. Made of ceramic and other elements, a capillary guides the wire during the ball bonding process. Its features help control the bonding process. We design and build capillaries suitable for a broad range of applications, including for use on our competitors' equipment. In addition to capillaries used for gold wire bonding, we have developed capillaries for use with copper wire to achieve optimal performance in copper wire bonding. In January 2015, we introduced Quantis TM QFN Capillary, the latest copper wire bonding capillary designed for QFN (Quad Flat No-lead) application. Dicing blades: expendable tools used by semiconductor manufacturers to cut silicon wafers into individual semiconductor die or to cut packaged semiconductor units into individual units. Bonding wedges: expendable tools used in wedge bonders. Wedge tools are used for both wire and ribbon applications. 31 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table reflects our income from operations for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended (dollar amounts in thousands) January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 $ Change % Change Net revenue $ 108,534 $ 107,438 $ 1,096 1.0 % Cost of sales 58,113 52,704 5,409 10.3 % Gross profit 50,421 54,734 (4,313 ) (7.9 )% Selling, general and administrative 27,932 25,427 2,505 9.9 % Research and development 24,194 19,581 4,613 23.6 % Operating expenses 52,126 45,008 7,118 15.8 % Income from operations $ (1,705 ) $ 9,726 $ (11,431 ) (117.5 )% Our net revenues for the three months ended January 2, 2016 increased as compared to our net revenues for the three months ended December 27, 2014 . The movement in net revenue is largely driven by customer demand. The semiconductor industry is volatile and our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Net Revenue Approximately 88.4% and 88.9% of our net revenue for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 , respectively, was for shipments to customer locations outside of the U.S., primarily in the Asia/Pacific region, and we expect sales outside of the U.S. to continue to represent the majority of our future revenue. The following table reflects net revenue by business segment for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended (dollar amounts in thousands) January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 $ Change % Change Equipment $ 92,974 $ 90,956 $ 2,018 2.2 % Expendable Tools 15,560 16,482 (922 ) (5.6 )% Total net revenue $ 108,534 $ 107,438 $ 1,096 1.0 % Equipment The following table reflects the components of Equipment net revenue change between the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended (in thousands) Price Volume $ Change Equipment $ (4,939 ) $ 6,957 $ 2,018 For the three months ended January 2, 2016 , the higher Equipment net revenue as compared to prior year period was primarily due to the inclusion of APMR and SMT products revenue. This was partially offset by the lower volume and unfavorable price variance in our ball bonders. The lower volume for ball bonders sales was mainly attributable to the lower equipment utilization rate by customers, and therefore lower demand from our customers. The unfavorable price variance was due to the unfavorable customer mix. 32 Table of Contents Expendable Tools The following table reflects the components of Expendable Tools net revenue change between the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : January 2, 2016 vs. December 27, 2014 Three months ended (in thousands) Price Volume $ Change Expendable Tools $ (428 ) $ (494 ) $ (922 ) For the three months ended January 2, 2016 , the lower Expendable Tools net revenue as compared to prior year period was primarily due to lower volume and price reduction in our wire bonding tools business. Gross Profit The following table reflects gross profit by business segment for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended (dollar amounts in thousands) January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 $ Change % Change Equipment $ 41,393 $ 44,857 $ (3,464 ) (7.7 )% Expendable Tools 9,028 9,877 (849 ) (8.6 )% Total gross profit $ 50,421 $ 54,734 $ (4,313 ) (7.9 )% The following table reflects gross profit as a percentage of net revenue by business segment for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended Basis Point January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 Change Equipment 44.5 % 49.3 % (480 ) Expendable Tools 58.0 % 59.9 % (190 ) Total gross margin 46.5 % 50.9 % (440 ) Equipment The following table reflects the components of Equipment gross profit change between the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : January 2, 2016 vs. December 27, 2014 Three months ended (in thousands) Price Cost Volume $ Change Equipment $ (4,939 ) $ (615 ) $ 2,090 $ (3,464 ) For the three months ended January 2, 2016 , the lower Equipment gross profit as compared to prior year period was primarily due to the lower volume and unfavorable price variance in our ball bonders. The lower volume for ball bonders sales was mainly attributable to the lower equipment utilization rate by customers and therefore lower demand from our customers. The unfavorable price variance was due to the unfavorable customer mix. This was partially offset by the inclusion of APMR and SMT products revenue. Expendable Tools The following table reflects the components of Expendable Tools gross profit change between the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : January 2, 2016 vs. December 27, 2014 Three months ended (in thousands) Price Cost Volume $ Change Expendable Tools $ (428 ) $ (109 ) $ (312 ) $ (849 ) For the three months ended January 2, 2016 , the lower Expendable Tools gross profit as compared to prior year period was primarily due to lower volume and price reduction in our wire bonding tools business. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table reflects operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended Basis point January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 change Selling, general & administrative 25.7 % 23.7 % 200 Research & development 22.3 % 18.2 % 410 Total 48.0 % 41.9 % 610 Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) For the three months ended January 2, 2016 , higher SG&A as compared to prior year period was primarily due to additional SG&A expenses of $8.2 million from our new APMR and SMT products. This was partially offset by lower staff costs of $2.6 million due to streamlining of global operations and functions, decrease in incentive compensation of $2.0 million as a result of current fiscal quarter loss, and lower amortization expenses of $1.2 million relating to wedge bonder developed technology, which were fully amortized in fiscal year 2015. Research and Development (R&D) For the three months ended January 2, 2016 , higher R&D expenses as compared to prior year period was primarily due to additional investment in the development of advanced packaging products. Income from Operations For the three months ended January 2, 2016 , total income from operations was lower by $11.4 million as compared to the three months ended December 27, 2014 . This was primarily due to lower gross profit and higher operating expenses as explained above. Interest Income and Expense The following table reflects interest income and interest expense for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended (dollar amounts in thousands) January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 $ Change % Change Interest income $ 622 $ 262 $ 360 137.4 % Interest expense $ (273 ) $ (303 ) $ 30 (9.9 )% Interest income for the three months ended January 2, 2016 was higher by $0.4 million as compared to the three months ended December 27, 2014 . This was primarily due to higher returns derived from changes in investment mix and higher market interest rate. Interest expense for the three months ended January 2, 2016 was attributable to the interest on financing obligation relating to the new building, which was incurred subsequent to the completion of the new building in December 2013 (Refer to Note 10 of Item 1). 34 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table reflects the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended (in thousands) January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 (Loss) / Income from operations before income taxes $ (1,356 ) $ 9,685 Income tax (benefit) / expense (1,265 ) 1,843 Net (loss) / income $ (91 ) $ 7,842 Effective tax rate (benefit) (93.3 )% 19.0 % For the three months ended January 2, 2016 , the effective income tax rate differed from the federal statutory tax rate primarily due to profits from foreign operations subject to a lower statutory tax rate than the U.S. statutory tax rate, tax benefits from domestic research expenditures, and the impact of tax holidays, offset by an increase for deferred taxes on unremitted earnings, an increase in valuation allowance against certain foreign deferred tax assets and foreign withholding taxes. For the three months ended December 27, 2014 , the effective income tax rate differed from the federal statutory tax rate primarily due to profits from foreign operations subject to a lower statutory tax rate than the U.S. statutory tax rate, and the impact of tax holidays, offset by an increase for deferred taxes on unremitted earnings, other U.S. deferred taxes and foreign withholding taxes. The effective tax rate (benefit) for the period ended January 2, 2016 of (93.3)% reflects a year-to-date tax benefit of $(1.3) million on a year-to-date loss of $(1.4) million . The effective tax rate for the period ended December 27, 2014 of 19.0% reflects a year-to-date tax expense of $1.8 million on a year-to-date income of $9.7 million . The tax benefit for the period ended January 2, 2016 of $(1.3) million differed from the tax expense for the period ended December 27, 2014 of $1.8 million primarily due to higher profits in foreign jurisdiction with lower tax rate and an increase in tax benefit from research and development expenditures. On December 18, 2015, the U.S. federal research tax credits was extended which resulted in the Company recording a discrete tax benefit for the period ended January 2, 2016 . The Company's future effective tax rate would be affected if earnings were lower than anticipated in countries where it has lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where it has higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of its deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. In addition, changes in assertion for foreign earnings permanently or non-permanently reinvested as a result of changes in facts and circumstances could significantly impact the effective tax rate. The Company regularly assesses the effects resulting from these factors to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized tax benefit with respect to certain unrecognized tax positions will increase or decrease during the next 12 months due to the expected lapse of statutes of limitation and / or settlements of tax examinations. The Company is currently under income tax examination by tax authorities in certain foreign jurisdictions. 35 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table reflects total cash and investments as of January 2, 2016 and October 3, 2015 : As of (dollar amounts in thousands) January 2, 2016 October 3, 2015 Change Cash and cash equivalents $ 492,935 $ 498,614 $ (5,679 ) Percentage of total assets 55.8 % 55.1 % The following table reflects summary Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow information for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 : Three months ended (in thousands) January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 7,694 $ 46,442 Net cash used in investing activities (1,612 ) (4,176 ) Net cash used in financing activities (12,425 ) (7,621 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 664 (36 ) Changes in cash and cash equivalents $ (5,679 ) $ 34,609 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 498,614 587,981 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 492,935 $ 622,590 Three months ended January 2, 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of working capital changes of $6.2 million and non-cash adjustments of $1.6 million . The change in working capital was primarily driven by a decrease in inventories of $8.1 million and offset by a decrease in income tax payables of $1.1 million and a net decrease from other working capital changes of $0.8 million. The decrease in inventories was due to higher inventories held at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 in anticipation of a scheduled scale down of manufacturing activity in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. The lower income tax payables was due to net payments made. Net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to net cash outflow for the capital expenditures of $1.7 million . This was partially offset by proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment of $0.1 million. Net cash used in financing activities relates to the repurchase of common stock of $12.8 million and partially offset by the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation arrangements of $0.4 million . Three months ended December 27, 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of net income of $7.8 million, non-cash adjustments of $6.1 million and working capital changes of $32.5 million. The change in working capital was primarily driven by a decrease in accounts receivable of $49.3 million and decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $4.0 million. This was partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $18.2 million and increase in inventories of $2.9 million. The decrease in accounts receivables is in line with lower sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 due to variations in the timing of our customer orders within the seasonal cycle, as customers tend to add or replace equipment capacity by the end of the September quarter. The reduction in prepaid expenses and other current assets is due to lower goods and services tax of $3.8 million and refunds of $0.3 million of income taxes. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses is due to lower purchases and the Company's shutdown of certain operations in selective locations in the first quarter of 2015. The increase in inventories is due to higher purchases during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 in anticipation of an increase in production in the second quarter of fiscal 2015. Net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to capital expenditures of $2.5 million and purchase of short-term investments of $1.6 million. Net cash used in financing activities relates to repurchase of common stock of $7.6 million. 36 Table of Contents Fiscal 2016 Liquidity and Capital Resource Outlook We expect our fiscal 2016 capital expenditures to be between $10.0 and $11.0 million. Expenditures are anticipated to be primarily used for R&D projects, enhancements to our manufacturing operations in Asia and improvements to our information technology infrastructure. We believe that our existing cash and investments and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some based on normal operations of our business and others related to global economic conditions and industry uncertainties, which we cannot predict. We also cannot predict economic conditions and industry downturns or the timing, strength or duration of recoveries. We intend to continue to use our cash for working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. We may seek, as we believe appropriate, additional debt or equity financing that would provide capital for corporate purposes, working capital funding, additional liquidity needs or to fund future growth opportunities, including possible acquisitions. The timing and amount of potential capital requirements cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including our actual and projected demand for our products, semiconductor and semiconductor capital equipment industry conditions, competitive factors, and the condition of financial markets. In 2014, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100 million of the Companys common stock on or before August 14, 2017 . The Company has entered into a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act to facilitate repurchases under the repurchase program. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time and is funded using the Company's available cash. Under the program, shares may be repurchased through open market and/or privately negotiated transactions at prices deemed appropriate by management. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under this program will depend on market conditions as well as corporate and regulatory considerations. During the three months ended January 2, 2016 , the Company repurchased a total of 1.2 million shares of common stock at a cost of $12.8 million under the repurchase program. As of January 2, 2016 , our remaining stock repurchase authorization under the repurchase program was approximately $ 8.7 million. It is possible that the Board of Directors could extend or expand this program. In January 2015, KSH, the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, acquired Assemblon, a subsidiary of Assemblon Holding B.V., in an all cash transaction for approximately $97.4 million (EUR 80 million). Other Obligations and Contingent Payments In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, certain obligations and commitments are not required to be included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations. These obligations and commitments, while entered into in the normal course of business, may have a material impact on our liquidity. Certain of the following commitments as of January 2, 2016 are appropriately not included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations included in this Form 10-Q; however, they have been disclosed in the table below for additional information. The following table reflects obligations and contingent payments under various arrangements as of January 2, 2016 : Payments due by fiscal period (in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years More than 5 years Current and long-term liabilities: Pension plan obligations $ 1,901 $ $ $ $ 1,901 Severance (1) 2,590 764 1,826 Operating lease retirement obligations 1,569 127 286 1,156 Long-term income taxes payable 4,986 4,986 Total Obligations and Contingent Payments reflected on the Consolidated Financial Statements $ 11,046 $ 127 $ 1,050 $ $ 9,869 Contractual Obligations: Inventory purchase obligations (2) $ 104,808 $ 104,808 $ $ $ Operating lease obligations (3) 30,508 4,806 7,834 6,767 11,101 Total Obligations and Contingent Payments not reflected on the Consolidated Financial Statements $ 135,316 $ 109,614 $ 7,834 $ 6,767 $ 11,101 (1) In accordance with regulations in some of our foreign subsidiaries, we are required to provide for severance obligations that are payable when an employee leaves the Company. 37 Table of Contents (2) We order inventory components in the normal course of our business. A portion of these orders are non-cancellable and a portion may have varying penalties and charges in the event of cancellation. (3) We have minimum rental commitments under various leases (excluding taxes, insurance, maintenance and repairs, which are also paid by us) primarily for various facility and equipment leases, which expire periodically through 2026 (not including lease extension options, if applicable). The annual rent and service charge for our corporate headquarters range from $4 million to $5 million Singapore dollars and is not included in the table above. In accordance with ASC No. 840, Leases ("ASC 840"), the Company was considered to be the owner of its headquarters during the construction phase due to its involvement in the asset construction. As a result of the Company's continued involvement during the lease term, the Company did not fulfill the criteria to apply sale-leaseback accounting under ASC 840. Therefore, at completion, the building remained on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the corresponding financing obligation was reclassified to long-term liability. As of January 2, 2016 , we recorded a financing obligation of $16.5 million . The financing obligation is not reflected in the table above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Credit facility and bank guarantee On November 22, 2013, the Company obtained a $5.0 million credit facility with Citibank in connection with the issuance of a bank guarantee in connection with the lease agreement for our corporate headquarters. As of January 2, 2016 the outstanding bank guarantee is $3.5 million Singapore dollars. As of January 2, 2016 , we did not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements, such as contingent interests or obligations associated with variable interest entities.