Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information. Technology Leadership We compete in the General Semiconductor, LED, Automotive & Industrial and Memory end markets by offering our customers advanced capital equipment, tools and solutions primarily addressing their semiconductor interconnect and device assembly needs. Our technology leadership directly contributes to the strong market positions of our ball bonder, wedge bonder, advanced solutions, and other leading tools, services and solutions. To maintain our competitive advantage, we invest in product development activities designed to enhance existing products and to deliver next-generation solutions. These investments often focus on progressing the broader assembly process in addition to advancing specific hardware and software features within our broadening capital equipment and aftermarket solutions portfolios. In support of this development effort, we typically work in close collaboration with customers, end users, and other industry members. In addition to producing technical advances, these collaborative development efforts strengthen customer relationships and enhance our reputation as a technology leader and solutions provider. In addition to gold, silver alloy wire and aluminum wire, our leadership in the industrys use of copper wire for the bonding process is an example of the benefits of our collaborative efforts. By working with customers, material suppliers, and other equipment suppliers, we have developed a series of robust, high-yielding production processes, which have made the use of copper wire for the bonding process widely accepted and significantly reduced the cost of assembling an integrated circuit. Our leadership also has allowed us to maintain a competitive position in the latest generations of ball bonders. Building on the success of RAPID, which is the first product in the smart bonder series to address the Industry 4.0 requirements, our RAPID Pro introduces additional functionality including the latest response-based processes. The RAPID series continues to excel in providing real-time process and performance monitoring, real-time equipment health monitoring, advanced data analytics and traceability, predictive maintenance monitoring and analysis, and detection and enhanced post-bond inspection. We optimize our bonder platforms to deliver variants of our products to serve emerging high-growth markets. For example, we have developed extensions to address opportunities in memory assembly with our RAPID MEM, in particular for NAND Flash storage. Our leading technology for wedge bonder equipment uses ribbon or heavy wire for different applications such as power electronics, automotive and semiconductor applications. The advanced interconnect capabilities of PowerFusionPS improve the processing of high-density power packages, due to an expanded bondable area, wider leadframe capability, indexing accuracy and teach mode. In all cases, we are making a concerted effort to develop commonality of subsystems and design practices, in order to improve performance and design efficiencies. We believe this will benefit us as it will increase synergies between our various product engineering groups. Furthermore, we continually research adjacent market segments where our technologies could be used. Our Asterion hybrid wedge bonder has demonstrated the capability to provide and enable an expanded bond area, laser bonding, new robust pattern recognition capabilities and extremely tight process controls. Another example of our developing equipment for high-growth niche markets is our AT Premier PLUS. This machine utilizes a modified wire bonding process to mechanically place bumps on devices in a wafer format, for variants of the flip chip assembly process. Typical applications include complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) image sensors, surface acoustical wave (SAW) filters and high brightness LEDs. These applications are commonly used in most, if not all, 6 Table of Contents of the smartphones available today in the market. We also have expanded the use of AT Premier PLUS for wafer level wire bonding for micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) and other sensors. Our technology leadership and bonding process know-how have enabled us to develop highly function-specific equipment with high throughput and accuracy. This forms the foundation for our advanced packaging equipment development. With the launch of our APAMATM, APAMA PlusTM and APTURATM, we are also developing and manufacturing advanced packaging solutions for the emerging 2.5-dimensional integrated circuit (2.5D IC) and 3-dimensional integrated circuit (3D IC) markets. By reducing the interconnect dimensions, 2.5D ICs and 3D ICs are expected to provide form factor, performance and power efficiency enhancements over traditional flip-chip packages in production today. High-performance processing and memory applications, in addition to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets, are earlier adopters of this new packaging technology. Chiplets are emerging as an alternative methodology for developing advanced system-level designs. Chiplets of various functions and typically fabricated in different process nodes are mixed-and-matched and assembled in a package with the goal of speeding up time-to-market and reducing cost. This methodology of developing advanced system-level designs is increasing the complexity of packages. Our leadership in system-in-package (SiP), multi-chip module (MCM) and heterogeneous integration are well positioned to address the requirements of this emerging and growing trend. The APTURATM is a highly capable thermo-compression bonding system which supports ultra-fine-pitch fluxless direct-copper thermo-compression as well as the CuFirstTM hybrid bonding process. Both fluxless thermo-compression ("FTC") as well as CuFirstTM are well positioned to enable growth of chiplet-based advanced packages. We continue to expand technology partnerships with key customers and through engagements with institutions and consortiums, including the UCLA Center for Heterogeneous Integration and Performance Scaling (CHIPS), Penn State Center for Heterogeneous Integration of Micro Electronic Systems (CHIMES), and the US-Joint semiconductor consortium led by Resonac Holdings Corporation. In addition to our growing heterogeneous opportunities, we have also broadened our mass reflow advanced packaging solutions to include high-accuracy flip chip and fan-out wafer level packaging (FOWLP) with KatalystTM. Our electronics assembly solutions are also capable of advanced package-on-package, wafer level packaging (WLP), embedded die, and active and passive die placement for SiP, enabling us to diversify our business while further expanding market reach into the automotive, LED lighting, medical and industrial segments. With the launch of LUMINEXTM, our high-speed die placement as well as mass die transfer are now available to support various applications in the integrated circuit and advanced display value chain. In LUMINEXTM, we believe we remain well positioned to provide mini-LED and direct-emissive displays for high volume adoption. We remain focused on driving innovation and delivering new solutions that directly address the next set of semiconductor assembly challenges assembling the next-generation of electronic devices. We bring the same technology focus to our tools business, driving tool design and manufacturing technology to optimize the performance and process capability of the equipment in which our tools are used. For all our equipment products, tools are an integral part of their process capability. We believe our unique ability to simultaneously develop both equipment and tools is a core strength supporting our products' technological differentiation. Customers Our major customers include IDMs, OSATs, foundry service providers, and other electronic manufacturers and automotive electronics suppliers. Revenue from our customers may vary significantly from year-to-year based on their respective capital investments, and operating expense budgets, and overall industry trends. There was no customer with sales representing more than 10% of our net revenue in fiscal 2024. For additional information regarding our concentrations and customers, please see Part II,