ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as we believe, we anticipate, we expect, may, should, could and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking is not intended to mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to: trends in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, revenue and operating expenses generally; volatility in our quarterly results; customer requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products; our ability to defend our market share and to gain new market share; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer-fabrication equipment and our growth relative to such growth; levels of research and development (R&D) expenditures; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax liabilities and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our access to capital markets; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements and capital expenditures). Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 27, 2010, our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26, 2010, and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. Documents To Review In Connection With Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three and six months ended December 26, 2010, and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2010 Form 10-K. Overview Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations consists of the following sections: Executive Summary provides an overview of the Companys operations and a summary of certain highlights of our results of operations Results of Operations provides an analysis of operating results Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates discusses accounting policies that reflect the more significant judgments and estimates we use to prepare our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Liquidity and Capital Resources provides an analysis of cash flows, contractual obligations and financial position EXECUTIVE SUMMARY We design, manufacture, market, refurbish, and service semiconductor processing equipment used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and are recognized as a major provider of such equipment to the worldwide semiconductor industry. Our customers include semiconductor memory and foundry manufacturers that make DRAM, flash memory, and logic integrated circuits for a wide range of consumer and industrial electronics. Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process and preparation steps that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits. We leverage our expertise in the areas of etch and single-wafer clean to develop processing solutions that typically benefit our customers through lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and/or reduced cost as well as by facilitating their ability to meet more stringent performance and design standards. The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and has historically experienced periodic and pronounced downturns and upturns. Todays leading indicators of change in customer investment patterns may not be any more reliable than in prior years. Demand for our equipment can vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), supply, demand, prices for semiconductors, customer capacity requirements, and our ability to develop, acquire, and market competitive products. For these and other reasons, our results of operations during any particular fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. 22 Table of Contents Our shipments, revenue and net income increased in the December 2010 quarter compared to the September 2010 quarter, in response to improved customer demand. We expect industry conditions to be relatively stable in calendar year 2011 versus 2010. We believe that, over the long term, demand for our products will continue to increase as customers capital expenditures increase to meet growing demand for semiconductor devices. However, historically, changes in demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment have been irregular and unpredictable. Accordingly, any forecasts about demand for wafer fabrication equipment in the near term are subject to uncertainty, and we could experience significant volatility in our quarterly results of operations over the next several quarters. In calendar year 2011 we believe that the opportunity exists for expansion in the wafer fab equipment market as compared to calendar year 2010. This expansion is dependent on, among other things, world-wide GDP growth and customer adoption rates for new products such as tablet devices and high end smart phones. Ultimately we cannot precisely predict the robustness or pace of any macroeconomic recovery. At present, customer input suggests that shipments in the first half of calendar year 2011 will be at comparable levels versus the latter half of 2010, even though we expect shipments to decline to some extent in the March 2011 quarter. The following table summarizes certain key financial information for the periods indicated below (in thousands, except percentage and per share data): Three Months Ended December 26, 2010 September 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 Revenue $ 870,714 $ 805,874 $ 487,176 Gross margin $ 407,433 $ 377,326 $ 221,187 Gross margin as a percent of total revenue 46.8 % 46.8 % 45.4 % Total operating expenses $ 166,329 $ 153,332 $ 129,839 Net income $ 221,856 $ 193,724 $ 69,574 Diluted net income per share $ 1.78 $ 1.55 $ 0.54 Our results for the December 2010 quarter reflect continued improvement in the global business environment and in the semiconductor industry with improved foundry fab utilization and high levels of production of next-generation DRAM and NAND devices by leading memory companies. Throughout calendar year 2010, we maintained our investments in new product R&D to defend our market share and win new application share. Our activities also focused on improving our customers installed base productivity through improved performance and lower cost of ownership. We improved our operational capability relative to cycle time for material procurement and manufacturing. We believe that these activities and others will allow us to maintain and improve our market share and cash generation capabilities. In the quarter ended December 26, 2010, revenue increased, as compared to the quarter ended September 26, 2010, primarily reflecting increased system shipments driven by growth in customer demand. Gross margin as a percent of revenues was consistent in both the December and September 2010 quarters. Operating expenses in the December 2010 quarter increased as compared to the quarter ended September 26, 2010. This change is primarily due to increased research and development activities and enhanced levels of sales and marketing expense associated with customer projects, and we expect that this trend may continue into calendar year 2011. In addition, the September 2010 quarter included a reversal of restructuring charges which did not reoccur in the December 2010 quarter. Our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances totaled approximately $1.2 billion as of December 26, 2010 compared to $1.1 billion as of September 26, 2010. Cash generated by operations was approximately $186 million during the December 2010 quarter. We used cash to prepay $50 million under a structured stock purchase agreement (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and to purchase $38 million of property, plant, and equipment. Employee headcount increased to approximately 3,400 as of December 26, 2010, from approximately 3,300 as of September 26, 2010. 23 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Shipments Three Months Ended December 26, 2010 September 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 Shipments (in millions) $ 892 $ 808 $ 519 North America 11 % 5 % 7 % Europe 13 % 11 % 6 % Japan 10 % 12 % 12 % Korea 18 % 29 % 26 % Taiwan 29 % 28 % 37 % Asia Pacific 19 % 15 % 12 % Shipments for the December 2010 quarter increased 10% compared to the September 2010 quarter and 72% year over year. During the December 2010 quarter, applications at or below the 65 nanometer technology node were 88% of total systems shipments. The memory market segment, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers were approximately 40%, 38% and 22% of shipments, respectively. Revenue Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 26, 2010 September 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 December 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 Revenue (in thousands) $ 870,714 $ 805,874 $ 487,176 $ 1,676,588 $ 805,724 North America 6 % 5 % 8 % 6 % 8 % Europe 13 % 10 % 6 % 12 % 6 % Japan 11 % 12 % 15 % 11 % 16 % Korea 18 % 36 % 25 % 27 % 25 % Taiwan 38 % 21 % 35 % 30 % 33 % Asia Pacific 14 % 16 % 11 % 14 % 12 % Revenue for the December 2010 quarter increased 8% compared to the September 2010 quarter and 79% year over year. Revenue increased in all product lines. Our revenue levels are generally correlated to our shipment, installation and acceptance timelines. The overall Asia region continues to account for a predominant portion of our revenues as a substantial amount of the worldwide capacity additions for semiconductor manufacturing continues to occur in this region. Our deferred revenue balance increased to $223 million as of December 26, 2010 compared to $217 million as of September 26, 2010. Our deferred revenue balance does not include shipments to Japanese customers, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The anticipated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $48 million as of December 26, 2010 compared to $50 million as of September 26, 2010. Gross Margin Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 26, 2010 September 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 December 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross margin $ 407,433 $ 377,326 $ 221,187 $ 784,759 $ 355,622 Percent of total revenue 46.8 % 46.8 % 45.4 % 46.8 % 44.1 % Gross margin as a percentage of revenue remained unchanged at 46.8% during both the December and September 2010 quarters. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue during the three and six months ended December 26, 2010 as compared to the same periods in the prior year was due primarily to increased factory and field utilization. 24 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 26, 2010 September 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 December 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 90,477 $ 86,353 $ 82,171 $ 176,830 $ 153,370 Percent of total revenue 10.4 % 10.7 % 16.9 % 10.5 % 19.0 % We continue to make significant R&D investments focused on plasma etch, single-wafer clean and other semiconductor manufacturing requirements. The increase in R&D expenses during the December 2010 quarter compared to the September 2010 quarter was primarily due to approximately $3 million of increased salary, benefit, and travel costs related to higher headcount and $2 million of increased costs for supplies and outside services. The increase in R&D expenses during the three months ended December 26, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year was due to approximately $5 million of increased salary, benefit, and travel costs related to higher headcount and $1 million of higher variable compensation associated with higher revenue and profit levels. The increase in R&D expenses during the six months ended December 26, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year was due to approximately $10 million of increased salary, benefit, and travel costs related to higher headcount, $8 million of higher variable compensation associated with higher revenue and profit levels, and $3 million of increased costs for supplies and outside services. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 26, 2010 September 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 December 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) $ 75,852 $ 72,142 $ 60,111 $ 147,994 $ 112,230 Percent of total revenue 8.7 % 9.0 % 12.3 % 8.8 % 13.9 % The sequential increase in SG&A expenses in the December 2010 quarter was primarily due to approximately $3 million of increased costs for supplies and outside services and $2 million of increased salary, benefit, and travel costs related to higher headcount. The increase in SG&A expenses for the December 2010 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to $9 million of higher variable compensation associated with higher revenue and profit levels, $5 million of increased costs for supplies and outside services, and $4 million of increased salary, benefit, and travel costs related to higher headcount. The increase in SG&A expenses for the six months ended December 26, 2010 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to $21 million of higher variable compensation associated with higher revenue and profit levels, $9 million of increased salary, benefit, and travel costs related to higher headcount, and $6 million of increased costs for supplies and outside services. Restructuring and Asset Impairments The following table summarizes charges (recoveries/reversals) under each of the plans described below for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 26, 2010 September 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 December 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 (in thousands) December 2008 Plan 105 March 2009 Plan (5,163 ) 5,919 (5,163 ) 7,907 Total restructuring and asset impairment charges incurred under restructuring plans $ $ (5,163 ) $ 5,919 $ (5,163 ) $ 8,012 During fiscal years 2009 and 2010, we incurred restructuring and asset impairment charges designed to better align our cost structure with our business opportunities in consideration of market and economic uncertainties (December 2008 Plan). These charges consisted primarily of severance and related benefits costs as well as certain facilities related costs and asset impairments. During fiscal years 2009 and 2010, we also incurred restructuring and asset impairment charges designed to align our cost structure with our outlook for the economic environment and future business opportunities at that time (March 2009 Plan). These charges consisted primarily of severance and related benefits costs as well as certain facilities related costs and asset impairments. During fiscal year 2011, we recorded a reversal of $5.2 million as a result of a decision to occupy certain previously restructured facilities. 25 Table of Contents For further details related to restructuring and asset impairment, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 409A Expense Following the voluntary independent review of our historical employee stock option grant process in 2007, we considered whether Section 409A (Section 409A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (IRC) and similar provisions of state law would apply to certain stock option grants that were found to have intrinsic value at the time of their respective measurement dates. If a stock option is not considered as issued with an exercise price of at least the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant, it may be subject to penalty taxes under Section 409A and similar provisions of state law. Under those circumstances, taxes may be assessed not only on the intrinsic value increase, but on the entire stock option gain as measured at various times. On March 30, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized us to assume potential tax liabilities of certain employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and certain other executive officers, relating to options that might be subject to Section 409A and similar provisions of state law. Those liabilities totaled $51 million; $45 million was recorded in operating expenses and $6 million in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for fiscal year 2008. We incurred $3 million of expense during fiscal year 2009 consisting of interest and legal fees. During fiscal year 2010, we reached final settlement of matters associated with our Section 409A expenses with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and California Franchise Tax Board (FTB) resulting in a credit of $44 million due to the reversal of Section 409A liabilities. This credit was recorded in the six months ended December 27, 2009. The determinations from the voluntary independent stock option review are more fully described in Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our 2007 Form 10-K. There were no expenses related to Section 409A in the three or six months ended December, 26 2010. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted of the following: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 26, 2010 September 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 December 26, 2010 December 27, 2009 (in thousands) Interest income $ 4,548 $ 3,076 $ 2,008 $ 7,624 $ 4,056 Interest expense (110 ) (101 ) (245 ) (211 ) (434 ) Foreign exchange gain (loss) (3,108 ) (3,179 ) (195 ) (6,287 ) (1,989 ) Other, net (292 ) (775 ) (1,626 ) (1,067 ) (2,059 ) $ 1,038 $ (979 ) $ (58 ) $ 59 $ (426 ) Interest income increased in the three and six months ended December 26, 2010 compared with the three months ending September 27, 2010, and three and six months December 27, 2009 primarily due to increases in our average cash and investment balances. Foreign exchange losses during the three and six months ending December 26, 2010 as compared to the three and six months ending December 27, 2009, were a result of changes in the value of our foreign currency denominated liabilities net of hedging activities. Income Tax Expense Our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended December 26, 2010 were 8.4% and 10.7%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 27, 2009 were approximately 23.8% and 28.1%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 26, 2010 compared to the three months ended December 27, 2009 was primarily due to the geographical mix of income and non-recurring tax expense related to 409A settlement from the California Franchise Tax Board (FTB) audit recorded in the three months ended December 27, 2009. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended December 26, 2010 compared to the six months ended December 27, 2009 was primarily due to the geographical mix of income and non-recurring tax expense related to 409A settlements from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and California FTB audits recorded in the six months ended December 27, 2009. The effective tax rates of 8.4% and 10.7% for the three and six months ended December 26, 2010, respectively, included the tax impact of the following discrete items which are recorded in the period in which they occur: (1) a tax expense of $1.0 million and $2.0 million, respectively, of interest related to uncertain tax positions, (2) a tax benefit of $4.8 million in both periods related to the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research and development credit for part of fiscal year 2010, (3) a tax benefit of $3.0 million and $3.2 million, respectively, due to the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and the reversal of the related interest accruals due to finalization of certain foreign tax positions, and (4) a tax expense of zero and $2.1 million, respectively, related to the reversal of accrued restructuring expenses. The effective tax rates of 23.8% and 28.1% for the three and six months ended December 27, 2009 were impacted by the following discrete events: (1) a tax expense of $8.4 million and $17.7 million, respectively, related to the 409A settlement from the IRS and California FTB audits, (2) a tax expense of $0.9 million and $1.8 million, respectively, of interest related to uncertain tax positions, (3) a tax benefit of $2.8 million and 26 Table of Contents $3.5 million, respectively, related to the accrual of restructuring expenses,(4) a tax benefit of $2.6 million and $2.6 million, respectively, due to the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and the reversal of the related interest accruals due to finalization of certain foreign uncertain tax positions, and (5) a tax expense of approximately zero and $2.2 million, respectively, related to a change in valuation allowance on California R&D credits. Deferred Income Taxes We had gross deferred tax assets, related primarily to reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible and tax credit carryforwards, of $134.4 million and $137.4 million as of December 26, 2010, and June 27, 2010, respectively. The gross deferred tax assets were offset by deferred tax liabilities of $36.3 million and a valuation allowance of $37.0 million as of December 26, 2010. The gross deferred tax assets were offset by deferred tax liabilities of $36.3 million and a valuation allowance of $37.0 million as of June 27, 2010. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. Our current valuation allowance of $37.0 million relates to certain California and foreign deferred tax assets. Uncertain Tax Positions We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and/or subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates we use in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition: We recognize all revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, and we have completed our system installation obligations, received customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our installation or customer acceptance obligations. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. If the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue when it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed-to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, we recognize revenue upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. We allocate revenue from multiple-element arrangements among the separate elements based on their relative selling prices, provided the arrangement does not include a general right of return relative to the delivered item and delivery, or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. The maximum revenue we recognize on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. We generally recognize revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits upon shipment. We generally recognize revenue related to services upon completion of the services requested by a customer order. We recognize revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Inventory Valuation: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using standard costs which generally approximate actual costs on a first-in, first-out basis. We maintain a perpetual inventory system and continuously record the quantity on-hand and standard cost for each product, including purchased components, subassemblies, and finished goods. We maintain the integrity of perpetual inventory records through periodic physical counts of quantities on hand. Finished goods are reported as inventories until the point of title transfer to the customer. Generally, title transfer is documented in the terms of sale. Unless specified in the terms of sale, title generally transfers when we complete physical transfer of the products to the freight carrier. Transfer of title for shipments to Japanese customers generally occurs at the time of customer acceptance. 27 Table of Contents We reassess standard costs as needed but annually at a minimum, and reflect achievable acquisition costs. Acquisition costs are generally based on the most recent vendor contract prices for purchased parts, normalized assembly and test labor utilization levels, methods of manufacturing, and normalized overhead. Manufacturing labor and overhead costs are attributed to individual product standard costs at a level planned to absorb spending at average utilization volumes. We eliminate all intercompany profits related to the sales and purchases of inventory between our legal entities from our Consolidated Financial Statements. Management evaluates the need to record adjustments for impairment of inventory at least quarterly. Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirements over the next 12 to 36 months is written down to its estimated market value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include, but are not limited to, managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and/or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of goods sold in the period in which we make the revision. Warranty: Typically, the sale of semiconductor capital equipment includes providing parts and service warranty to customers as part of the overall price of the system. We provide standard warranties for our systems that generally run for a period of 12 months from system acceptance. When appropriate, we record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system when we recognize revenue. We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. The amount recorded is based on an analysis of historical activity which uses factors such as type of system, customer, geographic region, and any known factors such as tool reliability trends. All actual or estimated parts and labor costs incurred in subsequent periods are charged to those established reserves on a system-by-system basis. Actual warranty expenses are accounted for on a system-by-system basis and may differ from our original estimates. While we periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. In addition to the provision of standard warranties, we offer customer-paid extended warranty services. Revenues for extended maintenance and warranty services with a fixed payment amount are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Related costs are recorded as incurred. Equity-based Compensation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and Employee Stock Plans: GAAP requires us to recognize the fair value of equity-based compensation in net income. We determine the fair value of our restricted stock units (RSUs) based upon the fair market value of Company stock at the date of grant. We estimate the fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires us to input highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. We amortize the fair value of equity-based awards over the vesting periods of the awards, and we have elected to use the straight-line method of amortization. We make quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our tax credit pool related to equity-based compensation to determine if there are any deficiencies that we are required to recognize in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We will only recognize a benefit from stock-based compensation in paid-in-capital if we realize an incremental tax benefit after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit through the income statement (continuing operations) rather than through paid-in-capital. We have also elected to net deferred tax assets and the associated valuation allowance related to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for the accumulated stock award tax benefits for income tax footnote disclosure purposes. We will track these stock award attributes separately and will only recognize these attributes through paid-in-capital. Income Taxes: Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more-likely-than-not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at the time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that can differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are recorded when identified. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Please refer to Note 10 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process prescribed within the interpretation. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective 28 Table of Contents to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period such determination is made. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: Goodwill represents the amount by which the purchase price in each business combination exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. We allocate the carrying value of goodwill to our reporting units. We test goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment at least annually. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and we review for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the intangible asset may not be recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we would perform an impairment test of goodwill at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to our reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units, as some of the assets and liabilities related to those reporting units are not held by those reporting units but by a corporate function. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we are required to assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in-process R&D and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using a weighted combination of both market and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the most indicative of fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market approach, we use information regarding the reporting unit as well as publicly available industry information to determine various financial multiples to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit for the purposes of our annual or periodic analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. We also consider our market capitalization and that of our competitors on the date we perform the analysis. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. As a result, several factors could result in impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including, but not limited to: (1) weakening of the global economy, weakness in the semiconductor equipment industry, or failure of the Company to reach its internal forecasts, which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated discounted cash flow value of our reporting units; and (2) a decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization, if we determine that the decline is sustained and indicates a reduction in the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. In addition, the value we assign to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on our estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from our estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009, the FASB ratified guidance from the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) regarding revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. This guidance addresses criteria for separating the consideration in multiple-element arrangements and requires companies to allocate the overall consideration to each deliverable by using a best estimate of the selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in the absence of vendor-specific objective evidence or other third-party evidence of the selling price. We adopted this guidance on June 28, 2010, on a prospective basis, and the adoption did not have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In September 2009, the FASB also ratified guidance from the EITF regarding certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. This guidance modifies the scope of the software revenue recognition rules to exclude (a) non-software components of tangible products and (b) software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed, or leased with tangible products when the software components and non-software components of the tangible product function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality. We adopted this guidance on June 28, 2010, on a prospective basis, and the adoption did not have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 29 Table of Contents As of December 26, 2010, we had $1.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments (total cash and investments) compared to $992 million as of June 27, 2010. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $441.3 million during the six months ended December 26, 2010 consisted of (in millions): Net income $ 415.6 Non-cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 36.6 Equity-based compensation 25.8 Restructuring charges, net (5.2 ) Net tax benefit on equity-based compensation plans 1.0 Deferred income taxes (3.8 ) Changes in operating asset and liability accounts (25.0 ) Other (3.7 ) $ 441.3 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts, net of foreign exchange impact, of $25.0 million included the following uses of cash: increases in accounts receivable of $189.7 million and inventories of $14.9 million, partially offset by the following sources of cash: increases in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $107.7 million, accounts payable of $47.7 million, and deferred profit of $11.9 million, and decreases in prepaid and others assets of $21.3 million. These changes in overall cash were all consistent with increased business volumes. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities during the six months ended December 26, 2010 was $81.3 million, primarily consisting of capital expenditures of $57.2 million and net purchases of available-for-sale securities of $25.7 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during the six months ended December 26, 2010 was $187.7 million, which included $148.9 million in treasury stock repurchases, a $50 million prepayment for the potential purchase of treasury stock under the structured stock repurchase arrangement (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), and $3.4 million in principal payments on long-term debt and capital leases, partially offset by net proceeds from issuance of common stock related to employee equity-based plans of $11.4 million and the effect of excess tax benefits on equity based compensation of $3.2 million. Liquidity Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Based upon our current business outlook, we expect that our levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at December 26, 2010 will be sufficient to support our presently anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures, through at least the next 12 months. In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. If we require additional funding, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We have certain obligations to make future payments under various contracts, some of which are recorded on our balance sheet and some of which are not. Obligations are recorded on our balance sheet in accordance with GAAP and include our long-term debt which is outlined in the following table and noted below. Our off-balance sheet arrangements include contractual relationships and are presented as operating leases and purchase obligations in the table below. Our contractual cash obligations and commitments as of December 26, 2010, relating to these agreements and our guarantees are included in the following table. The amounts in the table below exclude $118.3 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax benefits as we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or time of settlement. 30 Table of Contents Operating Leases Capital Leases Purchase Obligations Long-term Debt and Interest Expense Total (in thousands) Payments due by period: Less than 1 year $ 10,840 $ 1,777 $ 152,714 $ 2,696 $ 168,027 1-3 years 16,744 3,375 67,924 1,377 89,420 3-5 years 149,728 2,938 33,361 186,027 Over 5 years 697 9,785 2,826 13,308 Total $ 178,009 $ 17,875 $ 256,825 $ 4,073 $ 456,782 Operating Leases and Related Guarantees We lease most of our administrative, R&D and manufacturing facilities, regional sales/service offices and certain equipment under non-cancelable operating leases, which expire at various dates through fiscal year 2016. Certain of our facility leases for buildings located at our Fremont, California headquarters and certain other facility leases provide us with options to extend the leases for additional periods or to purchase the facilities. Certain of our facility leases provide for periodic rent increases based on the general rate of inflation. Included in the Operating Leases 3-5 years section of the table above is $141.7 million in guaranteed residual values for lease agreements relating to certain properties at our Fremont, California campus and properties in Livermore, California. The remaining operating lease balances primarily relate to non-cancelable facility-related operating leases. Capital Leases Capital leases reflect building and office equipment lease obligations. The amounts in the table above include the interest portion of payment obligations. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations consist of significant contractual obligations either on an annual basis or over multi-year periods related to our outsourcing activities or other material commitments, including vendor-consigned inventories. We continue to enter into new agreements and maintain existing agreements to outsource certain activities, including elements of our manufacturing, warehousing, logistics, facilities maintenance, certain information technology functions, and certain transactional general and administrative functions. The contractual cash obligations and commitments table presented above contains our obligations at December 26, 2010 under these arrangements and others. Actual expenditures will vary based on the volume of transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition to these obligations, certain of these agreements include early termination provisions and/or cancellation penalties which could increase or decrease amounts actually paid. Long-Term Debt Our remaining total long-term debt as of December 26, 2010 consisted of various bank loans and government subsidized technology loans supporting operating needs. Other Guarantees We have issued certain indemnifications to our lessors for taxes and general liability under some of our agreements. We have entered into certain insurance contracts that may limit our exposure to such indemnifications. As of December 26, 2010, we had not recorded any liability on our Consolidated Financial Statements in connection with these indemnifications, as we do not believe, based on information available, that it is probable that we will pay any amounts under these guarantees. Generally, we indemnify, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, our customers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by our products or services. We seek to limit our liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations. We do not believe, based on information available, that it is probable that we will pay any material amounts under these guarantees. Warranties We offer standard warranties on its systems that run generally for a period of 12 months from system acceptance. The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements.