Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three months ended September 29, 2019 , and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2019 Form 10-K. 28 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Lam Research Corporation is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive vehicles, and data storage devices. Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory, DRAM, and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer. Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective. Demand from the Cloud, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical 3D scaling strategies as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. We believe we are in a strong position with our leadership and competency in deposition, etch, and clean to facilitate some of the most significant innovations in semiconductor device manufacturing. Several factors create opportunity for sustainable differentiation for us: (i) our focus on research and development, with several on-going programs relating to sustaining engineering, product and process development, and concept and feasibility; (ii) our ability to effectively leverage cycles of learning from our broad installed base; (iii) our collaborative focus with ecosystem partners; and (iv) our focus on delivering our multi-product solutions with a goal to enhance the value of Lams solutions to our customers. Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean. While there could be continued variability in the near-term, we believe that demand for our products and services will increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas, and as we gain market share. The following table summarizes certain key financial information for the periods indicated below: Three Months Ended September 29, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 23, 2018 (in thousands, except per share data and percentages) Revenue $ 2,165,746 $ 2,361,147 $ 2,330,691 Gross margin $ 981,710 $ 1,080,891 $ 1,058,198 Gross margin as a percent of total revenue 45.3 % 45.8 % 45.4 % Total operating expenses $ 444,255 $ 463,806 $ 466,447 Net income $ 465,789 $ 541,825 $ 533,360 Diluted net income per share $ 3.09 $ 3.51 $ 3.23 In the September 2019 quarter, revenue decreased 8% compared to the June 2019 quarter, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment. The decline in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter was mainly driven by customer and product mix. The decrease in operating expenses in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter, was mainly driven by decreases in supplies and employee-related costs due to reduced working days in the September quarter. Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased slightly to $5.8 billion at the end of the September 2019 quarter compared to $5.7 billion at the end of the June 2019 quarter. This increase was primarily 29 Table of Contents the result of $464.0 million of cash generated from operating activities, partially offset by approximately $158.9 million of dividends paid to shareholders, $78.1 million of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $39.3 million of capital expenditures, and $29.0 million of debt reductions. Employee headcount as of September 29, 2019 , was approximately 10,700 . RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue Three Months Ended September 29, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 23, 2018 Revenue (in millions) $ 2,166 $ 2,361 $ 2,331 China 27 % 33 % 25 % Korea 21 % 25 % 16 % Taiwan 18 % 14 % 12 % Japan 13 % 9 % 29 % Southeast Asia 10 % 5 % 9 % United States 8 % 11 % 5 % Europe 3 % 3 % 4 % Revenue for the September 2019 quarter decreased 8% and 7% from the June 2019 and September 2018 quarters, respectively, reflecting lower customer demand for semiconductor equipment. Our deferred revenue balance at September 29, 2019 increased to $481 million , as compared to $449 million as of June 30, 2019 . Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $47 million as of September 29, 2019 , and $78 million as of June 30, 2019 . The percentages of system revenues to each of the markets we serve were as follows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 29, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 23, 2018 Memory 64 % 64 % 77 % Foundry 25 % 23 % 17 % Logic/integrated device manufacturing 11 % 13 % 6 % Gross Margin Three Months Ended September 29, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 23, 2018 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross margin $ 981,710 $ 1,080,891 $ 1,058,198 Percent of revenue 45.3 % 45.8 % 45.4 % Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was lower in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter primarily due to customer and product mix. The slight decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2019 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter is primarily due to lower factory utilization, partially offset by changes in customer and product mix, and lower amortization expense related to intangibles acquired through business combinations. 30 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended September 29, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 23, 2018 (in thousands, except percentages) Research & development (R&D) $ 286,827 $ 295,578 $ 291,672 Percent of revenue 13.2 % 12.5 % 12.5 % We continued to make significant R&D investments focused on leading-edge deposition, etch, clean and other semiconductor manufacturing processes. The decrease in R&D expense in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter was primarily driven by a decrease of $9 million in employee compensation due to reduced working days in the September quarter. Selling, General, and Administrative Three Months Ended September 29, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 23, 2018 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) $ 157,428 $ 168,228 $ 174,775 Percent of revenue 7.3 % 7.1 % 7.5 % SG&A during the September 2019 quarter decreased in comparison to the June 2019 quarter mainly due to a decrease of $5 million in employee compensation resulting from reduced working days in the September quarter. SG&A during the September 2019 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year decreased primarily due to a decrease of $7 million in employee compensation and a decrease of $3 million in outside services. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consisted of the following: Three Months Ended September 29, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 23, 2018 (in thousands) Interest income $ 31,784 $ 35,062 $ 18,933 Interest expense (43,995 ) (45,428 ) (21,788 ) (Losses) gains on deferred compensation plan-related assets, net (436 ) 6,229 5,213 Foreign exchange (losses) gains, net (529 ) (2,526 ) 51 Other, net 448 (1,004 ) (2,786 ) $ (12,728 ) $ (7,667 ) $ (377 ) Interest income decreased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter as a result of lower cash balances and lower yield. Interest income increased compared to the September 2018 quarter as a result of higher cash balances and higher yield. Interest expense decreased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter primarily due to the pay down of commercial paper under our CP Program. Interest expense increased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter due to the March 2019 issuance of $2.5 billion of senior notes. Changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the noted variability in the gains and losses on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. Foreign exchange fluctuations are primarily due to currency movements against portions of our unhedged balance sheet exposures. Other, net increased in the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 and September 2018 quarters due to investments unrelated to cash and marketable securities. 31 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense Our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended September 29, 2019 June 30, 2019 September 23, 2018 (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 58,938 $ 67,593 $ 58,014 Effective tax rate 11.2 % 11.1 % 9.8 % The effective tax rate for the September 2019 quarter compared to the June 2019 quarter remained consistent. The increase in the effective tax rate for the September 2019 quarter compared to the September 2018 quarter was primarily due to the favorable impact of the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) deferred policy election, offset by the adjustment to U.S. tax reform mandated one-time transition tax under Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 118 in the September 2018 quarter. International revenues account for a significant portion of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pre-tax income is earned and taxed outside the United States. Due to the GILTI provisions, international pre-tax income is taxable in the United States at a lower effective tax rate than the federal statutory tax rate. Please refer to Note 7, Income Taxes, to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of our 2019 Form 10-K for additional information. Uncertain Tax Positions We re-evaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Any change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and/or subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our critical accounting estimates include: the recognition and valuation of revenue from arrangements with multiple performance obligations which impacts revenue; the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin; the valuation of warranty reserves, which impacts gross margin; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions, which impact our provision for income tax expenses; and the valuation and recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts gross margin and operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation or amortization. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements regarding the critical accounting estimates indicated above. Revenue Recognition : We recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation, as further described below. 32 Table of Contents Identify the contract with a customer . We generally consider documentation of terms with an approved purchase order as a customer contract, provided that collection is considered probable, which is assessed based on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks, payment histories, and/or other circumstances. Identify the performance obligations in the contract . Performance obligations include sales of systems, spare parts, and services. In addition, our customer contracts contain provisions for installation and training services which have been deemed immaterial in the context of the contract. Determine the transaction price . The transaction price for our contracts with customers consists of both fixed and variable consideration provided it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty related to variable consideration is resolved. Fixed consideration includes amounts to be contractually billed to the customer while variable consideration includes estimates for discounts and credits for future usage which are based on contractual terms outlined in volume purchase agreements and other factors known at the time. We generally invoice customers at shipment and for professional services either as provided or upon meeting certain milestones. Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance. Our contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the transfer of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year. Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract . For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are based on multiple factors including, but not limited to historical discounting trends for products and services and pricing practices in different geographies. Recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation . Revenue for systems and spares are recognized at a point in time, which is generally upon shipment or delivery. Revenue from services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less. Inventory Valuation : Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirement is written down to its estimated net realizable value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include but are not limited to managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and/or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of goods sold in the period in which we make the revision. Warranty : We record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system when we recognize revenue. We periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. Income Taxes : Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we will not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment will be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance will be reversed. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. 33 Table of Contents Long-lived Assets : We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we will perform an impairment test at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to the reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in-process R&D and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. In our goodwill impairment process we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. We do not calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless we determine, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the reporting units fair value is less than its carrying amount. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. As a result, several factors could result in an impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including but not limited to: (1) weakening of the global economy, weakness in the semiconductor equipment industry, or our failure to reach internal forecasts, which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated discounted cash flow value of our reporting units; and (2) a decline in our Common Stock price and resulting market capitalization, to the extent we determine that the decline is sustained and indicates a reduction in the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. Further, the value assigned to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and lifecycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the assets carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the assets new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part 1 of this Form 10-Q. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Total gross cash, cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances were $5.8 billion at September 29, 2019 compared to $5.7 billion as of June 30, 2019 . This increase was primarily the result of $464.0 million of cash generated from operating activities, partially offset by approximately $158.9 million of dividends paid to shareholders, $78.1 million of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $39.3 million of capital expenditures, and $29.0 million of debt reductions. 34 Table of Contents Cash Flow from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $464.0 million during the three months ended September 29, 2019 , consisted of (in millions): Net income $ 465.8 Non-cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 64.7 Equity-based compensation expense 42.9 Deferred income taxes (3.0 ) Amortization of note discounts and issuance costs 1.7 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts (112.0 ) Other 3.9 $ 464.0 Significant changes in operating asset and liability accounts, net of foreign exchange impact, included the following uses of cash: increase in accounts receivable of $180.6 million and decreases in accrued expense and other liabilities of $38.4 million. The uses of cash are offset by sources of cash from the following: decreases in inventories of $42.7 million and prepaid expense and other assets of $7.7 million, along with increases in trade accounts payable of $31.2 million and deferred profit of $25.4 million. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended September 29, 2019 , was $750.7 million , primarily consisting of net sales of available-for-sale securities of $790.5 million , partially offset by capital expenditures of $39.3 million . Cash Flow from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during the three months ended September 29, 2019 , was $262.1 million , primarily consisting of $158.9 million in dividends paid, $78.1 million in treasury stock repurchases, and $29.0 million of cash paid for debt repayment. Liquidity Given that the semiconductor industry is highly competitive and has historically experienced rapid changes in demand, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Anticipated cash flows from operations based on our current business outlook, combined with our current levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of September 29, 2019 , are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, capital expenditures, capital redistributions, and dividends through at least the next 12 months. However, uncertainty in the global economy and the semiconductor industry, as well as disruptions in credit markets, have in the past, and could in the future, impact customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. Under certain circumstances, our 2041 Notes may be converted and settled in cash and shares of our Common Stock. During the three months ended September 29, 2019 , approximately $28.1 million principal value of convertible 2041 Notes were converted and in the subsequent period through October 25, 2019, we received notice of conversion of an additional $7.3 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending December 29, 2019. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes. In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While we have substantial cash balances, we may require additional funding and need or choose to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no assurance that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us. 35 Table of Contents