ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as believe, anticipate, expect, may, should, could and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking is not intended to mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, 24 Table of Contents statements that relate to: trends in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, revenue and operating expenses generally; managements plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus; volatility in our quarterly results; customer requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products, and the reliability of indicators of change in customer spending and demand; our ability to defend our market share and to gain new market share; factors that affect our tax rates; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer-fabrication equipment and our growth relative to such growth; levels of research and development expenditures; outsourced activities; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax liabilities and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our access to capital markets; our intention to pay quarterly dividends and the amounts thereof, if any; our intention to repurchase our shares; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements and capital expenditures). Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2013 (our 2013 Form 10-K), our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 29, 2013 and December 29, 2013, and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. Documents To Review In Connection With Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2014, and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2013 Form 10-K. Overview Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations consist of the following sections: Executive Summary provides an overview of the Companys operations and a summary of certain highlights of our results of operations Results of Operations provides an analysis of operating results Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates discusses accounting policies that reflect the more significant judgments and estimates we use to prepare our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Liquidity and Capital Resources provides an analysis of cash flows and financial position EXECUTIVE SUMMARY We design, manufacture, market, refurbish, and service semiconductor processing equipment used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and are recognized as a major provider of such equipment to the worldwide semiconductor industry. Our customers include semiconductor manufacturers that make memory, microprocessors, and other logic integrated circuits for a wide range of consumer and industrial electronics. Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process and preparation steps that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits. We leverage our expertise in semiconductor processing to develop technology and productivity solutions that typically benefit our customers through lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and reduced cost as well as by facilitating their ability to meet more stringent performance and design standards. The semiconductor capital equipment industry has been highly competitive and subject to business cycles that historically have been characterized by rapid changes in demand. The variability in our customers investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. More recently, customer consolidation and the timing and scope of customer spending at industry inflection points have led to higher levels of variability quarter-to-quarter. Demand for our equipment can vary significantly from period to period as a result of these factors and our ability to develop, acquire, and market competitive products. For these and other reasons, our results of operations during any particular period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. 25 Table of Contents The following table summarizes certain key financial information for the periods indicated below (in thousands, except percentage and per share data): Three Months Ended March 30, December 29, March 31, 2014 2013 2013 Revenue $ 1,227,392 $ 1,116,061 $ 844,928 Gross margin $ 530,798 $ 487,789 $ 339,832 Gross margin as a percentage of revenue 43.2 % 43.7 % 40.2 % Total operating expenses $ 338,861 $ 323,315 $ 329,013 Net income $ 164,396 $ 148,992 $ 18,996 Diluted net income per share $ 0.96 $ 0.87 $ 0.11 In the March 2014 quarter, revenue increased compared to the quarter ended December 29, 2013 (the December 2013 quarter), reflecting increased investments by our customers. Gross margin as a percentage of revenues decreased as compared to the December 2013 quarter due to unfavorable product mix, as well as approximately $5 million in costs we incurred in the March 2014 quarter for rationalization of certain product configurations. Operating expenses in the March 2014 quarter increased compared to the December 2013 quarter due primarily to costs for rationalization of certain product configurations, expenses incurred for the operating lease financing for our Fremont and Livermore buildings executed in the March 2014 quarter, and increased R&D spending. Our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances totaled approximately $2.9 billion as of March 30, 2014 compared to $2.7 billion as of December 29, 2013. Cash generated by operations was approximately $290 million during the March 2014 quarter. We used cash during the March 2014 quarter to repurchase $52 million of our shares and purchase $42 million of property and equipment. Employee headcount increased slightly as of March 30, 2014 as compared to December 29, 2013 to approximately 6,600 people. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Shipments Three Months Ended March 30, December 29, March 31, 2014 2013 2013 Shipments (in millions) $ 1,264 $ 1,139 $ 896 Taiwan 22 % 22 % 33 % Korea 28 % 24 % 12 % China 20 % 21 % 7 % Japan 11 % 13 % 11 % United States 11 % 9 % 21 % Europe 5 % 7 % 9 % Southeast Asia 3 % 4 % 7 % Shipments for the March 2014 quarter increased 11% compared to the December 2013 quarter and increased 41% compared to the March 2013 quarter as customer demand for semiconductor equipment increased, particularly for the memory market. The percentage of total system shipments to each of the market segments we serve were as follows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 30, December 29, March 31, 2014 2013 2013 Memory 66 % 64 % 31 % Foundry 28 % 28 % 56 % Logic/integrated device manufacturing 6 % 8 % 13 % 26 Table of Contents Revenue Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended March 30, December 29, March 31, March 30, March 31, 2014 2013 2013 2014 2013 Revenue (in millions) $ 1,227 $ 1,116 $ 845 $ 3,359 $ 2,613 Taiwan 19 % 28 % 26 % 24 % 27 % Korea 28 % 19 % 14 % 23 % 16 % China 22 % 12 % 7 % 15 % 9 % Japan 11 % 17 % 11 % 13 % 10 % United States 10 % 13 % 26 % 12 % 23 % Europe 6 % 5 % 10 % 7 % 8 % Southeast Asia 4 % 6 % 6 % 6 % 7 % Revenue for the March 2014 quarter increased 10% compared to the December 2013 quarter, increased 45% as compared to the March 2013 quarter, and increased 29% during the nine months ended March 30, 2014 as compared to the same period last year, reflecting increased customer and industry demand. Our deferred revenue balance increased to $432 million as of March 30, 2014 compared to $405 million as of December 29, 2013. Our deferred revenue balance does not include shipments to Japanese customers, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The anticipated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $57 million as of March 2014 compared to $53 million as of December 29, 2013. Gross Margin Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended March 30, December 29, March 31, March 30, March 31, 2014 2013 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross margin $ 530,798 $ 487,789 $ 339,832 $ 1,450,445 $ 989,132 Percent of revenue 43.2 % 43.7 % 40.2 % 43.2 % 37.9 % The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue during the March 2014 quarter as compared to the December 2013 quarter is due to a slightly unfavorable product mix, a higher customer concentration, as well as approximately $5 million in costs we incurred in the March 2014 quarter for the rationalization of certain product configurations. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue during the March 2014 quarter as compared to the March 2013 quarter is primarily due to improved factory and field efficiencies, as well as a more favorable product mix. Additionally, the acquisition-related inventory fair value impact decreased by $7 million in the March 2014 quarter, as compared to the same quarter last year. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue during the nine months ended March 2014 quarter as compared to the same period in the prior year is related to higher improved factory and field utilization, as well as a more favorable product mix. Additionally, the acquisition-related inventory fair value impact and costs associated with rationalization of certain product configurations decreased by $75 million and $16 million, respectively, in the nine months ended March 30, 2014 as compared to the same period last year. Research and Development Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended March 30, December 29, March 31, March 30, March 31, 2014 2013 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development (R&D) $ 185,978 $ 174,477 $ 174,206 $ 531,022 $ 503,468 Percent of revenue 15.2 % 15.6 % 20.6 % 15.8 % 19.3 % We continue to make significant R&D investments focused on leading-edge plasma etch, deposition, single-wafer clean and other semiconductor manufacturing requirements. The increase in R&D expenses during the March 2014 quarter compared to the December 2013 quarter was primarily due to an $8 million increase in salaries and benefits as a result of additional headcount to support our investment in product development and related increases in incentive and equity compensation. The increase in R&D expenses during the March 2014 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to a $9 million increase in salaries and benefits, reflecting an increase in our product development investments. The increase in R&D expenses during the nine months ended March 30, 2014 as compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to a $30 million increase in salaries, benefits, incentive and equity compensation, and temporary labor related to new product development. 27 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended March 30, December 29, March 31, March 30, March 31, 2014 2013 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) $ 152,883 $ 148,838 $ 154,807 $ 457,604 $ 454,091 Percent of revenue 12.5 % 13.3 % 18.3 % 13.6 % 17.4 % The increase in SG&A expenses during the March 2014 quarter compared to the December 2013 quarter was primarily due to a $5 million charge associated with the execution of our Fremont and Livermore buildings operating leases. The decrease in SG&A expenses in the March 2014 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to a $13 million decrease in integration costs offset by a $5 million charge associated with the renewal of our Fremont and Livermore buildings operating leases and $6 million in costs incurred for rationalization of certain product configurations. The increase in SG&A expenses in the nine months ended March 30, 2014 quarter as compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to an $11 million increase in marketing expenses, $7 million in costs incurred for rationalization of certain product configurations, an $12 million impairment of long-lived assets, and a $5 million charge associated with the execution of our Fremont and Livermore buildings operating leases. This increase was offset by a $25 million reduction of integration-related costs and an $8 million decrease in amortization related to intangible assets acquired in the Novellus transaction. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consisted of the following: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended March 30, December 29, March 31, March 30, March 31, 2014 2013 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands) Interest income $ 3,110 $ 2,828 $ 3,235 $ 8,661 $ 11,411 Interest expense (15,621 ) (15,297 ) (15,175 ) (46,220 ) (45,294 ) Gains on deferred compensation plan related assets 3,137 5,360 3,112 8,534 7,087 Foreign exchange gains (losses) (85 ) 125 (1,294 ) (181 ) (4,936 ) Other, net (396 ) 3,147 (5,712 ) 1,252 (7,430 ) $ (9,855 ) $ (3,837 ) $ (15,834 ) $ (27,954 ) $ (39,162 ) Interest income decreased in the three and the nine months ended March 30, 2014 as compared to the three and nine months ended March 31, 2013 as a result of lower interest rate yields. We incurred insignificant foreign exchange gains (losses) in both the three and nine months ended March 30, 2014 and the three months ended December 29, 2013. Foreign exchange losses in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2013 were related to un-hedged portions of the balance sheet exposures. In the three and nine months ended March 30, 2014 as compared to the three and nine months ended March 31, 2013, we recognized gains on assets which are related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan, due to changes in the market value of securities in this portfolio. Other income, net was higher during the nine months ended March 30, 2014 as compared to nine months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to a $4.8 million gain on the disposition of a private equity investment. Other expense during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2013 was primarily due to a $3.7 million other-than-temporary impairment of a strategic public equity investment, net of foreign exchange. 28 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense Our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended March 30, March 31, March 30, March 31, 2014 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 17,686 $ (24,011 ) $ 34,971 $ (35,761 ) Effective tax rate 9.7 % 478.9 % 8.1 % 471.2 % The change in the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2014 compared to the three and nine months ended March 31, 2013 was primarily due to the level of income, the impact of the retroactive extension for part of the fiscal year 2012 of the U.S. Federal R&D tax credit in fiscal year 2013 and the treatment of integration and impairment expenses as a discrete event in determining the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate of 9.7% for the three months ended March 30, 2014 includes $4.9 million of tax benefit related to the tax impact of synthetic lease impairment, restructuring, and impairment expenses. The effective tax rate of 8.1% for the nine months ended March 30, 2014 includes $7.8 million of tax benefit related to the tax impact of synthetic lease impairment integration, restructuring, asset sale, and impairment expenses, offset by the tax impact of gain on sale of investment. The effective tax rate of 478.9% and 471.2% for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2013 included (1) a tax benefit of $11.5 million, due to the retroactive extension of the U.S. Federal R&D tax credit for part of fiscal 2012, and (2) $2.1 million and $5.6 million, respectively, of tax benefit related to the tax impact of integration and impairment expenses, which had a significant impact on the effective tax rate due to the low level of income in fiscal year 2013, in comparison to fiscal year 2014. International revenues account for a significant portion of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pre-tax income is earned and taxed outside the United States at rates that are generally lower than in the United States. Please refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Uncertain Tax Positions We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and/or subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We based our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believed to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition: We recognize all revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, and we have received customer acceptance, completed our system installation obligations, or are otherwise released from our installation or customer acceptance obligations. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. If the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue when it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed-to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, we recognize revenue upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. We allocate revenue from multiple-element arrangements among the separate elements based on their relative selling prices, provided the elements have value on a stand-alone basis. Our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return. The maximum revenue we recognize on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. We generally recognize revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits upon shipment. We generally recognize revenue related to services upon completion of the services requested by a customer order. We recognize revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. When goods or services have been delivered to the customer but all conditions for revenue recognition have not been met, we record deferred revenue and/or deferred costs of sales in deferred profit on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Inventory Valuation: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using standard costs that generally approximate actual costs on a first-in, first-out basis. We maintain a perpetual inventory system and continuously record the quantity on-hand and standard cost for each product, including purchased components, subassemblies, and finished goods. We maintain the integrity of perpetual inventory records through 29 Table of Contents periodic physical counts of quantities on hand. Finished goods are reported as inventories until the point of title transfer to the customer. Unless specified in the terms of sale, title generally transfers when we complete physical transfer of the products to the freight carrier. Transfer of title for shipments to Japanese customers generally occurs at the time of customer acceptance. Management evaluates the need to record adjustments for impairment of inventory at least quarterly. Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirements over the next 12 to 36 months is written down to its estimated market value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include, but are not limited to, managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and/or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of goods sold in the period in which we make the revision. Warranty : Typically, the sale of semiconductor capital equipment includes providing parts and service warranties to customers as part of the overall price of the system. We provide standard warranties for our systems. When appropriate, we record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system when we recognize revenue. We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. The amount recorded is based on an analysis of historical activity that uses factors such as type of system, customer, geographic region, and any known factors such as tool reliability trends. All actual or estimated parts and labor costs incurred in subsequent periods are charged to those established reserves on a system-by-system basis. Actual warranty expenses are accounted for on a system-by-system basis and may differ from our original estimates. While we periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. In addition to the provision of standard warranties, we offer customer-paid extended warranty services. Revenues for extended maintenance and warranty services with a fixed payment amount are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Related costs are recorded as incurred. Equity-based Compensation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and Employee Stock Plans: GAAP requires us to recognize the fair value of equity-based compensation in net income. We determine the fair value of our restricted stock units (RSUs), excluding market-based performance restricted stock units, based upon the fair market value of Company stock at the date of grant. We estimate the fair value of our market-based performance restricted stock units using a Monte Carlo simulation model at the date of the grant. We estimate the fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires us to input highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. We amortize the fair value of equity-based awards over the vesting periods of the awards, and we have elected to use the straight-line method of amortization. We make quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our tax credit pool related to equity-based compensation to determine if there are any deficiencies that we are required to recognize in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. We will only recognize a benefit from stock-based compensation in paid-in-capital if we realize an incremental tax benefit after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit through the income statement (continuing operations) rather than through paid-in-capital. We have also elected to net deferred tax assets and the associated valuation allowance related to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for the accumulated stock award tax benefits for income tax footnote disclosure purposes. We track these stock award attributes separately and will only recognize these attributes through paid-in-capital. Income Taxes: Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more-likely-than-not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at the time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period such determination is made. 30 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets: The valuation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination requires the use of management estimates including but not limited to estimating future expected cash flows from assets acquired and determining discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available. Goodwill represents the amount by which the purchase price in each business combination exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Each component of the Company for which discrete financial information is available and for which segment management regularly reviews the results of operations is considered a reporting unit. All goodwill acquired in a business combination is assigned to one or more reporting units as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is assigned to the Companys reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. The goodwill assigned to a reporting unit is the difference between the acquisition consideration assigned to the reporting unit on a relative fair value basis and the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities that can be specifically attributed to the reporting unit. We test goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment at least annually. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives, and we review for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the intangible asset may not be recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we would perform an impairment test of goodwill at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to our reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units, as some of the assets and liabilities related to those reporting units are not held by those reporting units but by a corporate function. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we are required to assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in-process R&D and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. Beginning with our fiscal year 2012 goodwill impairment analysis, we adopted new accounting guidance that allowed us to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it was necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. Under the revised guidance, an entity is no longer required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. Our most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed as of April 1, 2013, did not result in a goodwill impairment charge, nor did we record any goodwill impairment in fiscal 2012 or 2011. As a result of historical performance and growth potential, our Clean systems reporting unit may be at greater risk for goodwill impairment than our other reporting units if our actual results for this reporting unit differ from our projections. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using a weighted combination of both a market and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the most indicative of fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market approach, we use information regarding the reporting unit as well as publicly available industry information to determine various financial multiples to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit for the purposes of our annual or periodic analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. We also consider our market capitalization and that of our competitors on the date we perform the analysis. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. As a result, several factors could result in impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including, but not limited to: (1) weakening of the global economy, weakness in the semiconductor equipment industry, or our failure to reach our internal forecasts, which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated discounted cash flow value of our reporting units; and (2) a decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization, if we determine that the decline is sustained and indicates a reduction in the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. In addition, the value we assign to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on our estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from our estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists. The new standard requires that an unrecognized tax 31 Table of Contents benefit should be presented as a reduction of a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward or other tax credit carryforward when settlement in this manner is available under the tax law. We are required to adopt this standard starting fiscal year 2015 and are currently in the process of determining the impact, if any, on our financial position. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 30, 2014, we had $2.9 billion in gross cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments (total cash and investments) compared to $2.7 billion as of June 30, 2013. Approximately $2.1 billion and $2.0 billion of our total cash and investments as of March 30, 2014 and June 30, 2013, respectively, was held outside the U.S. in our foreign subsidiaries, of which substantially all would be subject to tax at U.S. rates if it were to be repatriated. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $471.2 million during the nine months ended March 30, 2014 consisted of (in millions): Net income $ 398.9 Non-cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 221.1 Equity-based compensation 70.6 Amortization of convertible note discount 24.7 Impairment of long lived assets 11.6 Deferred income taxes 11.6 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts (271.8 ) Other 4.5 $ 471.2 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts, net of foreign exchange impact, included the following uses of cash: increases in accounts receivable of $208.1 million and inventories of $145.6 million, partially offset by sources of cash resulting from increases in accrued liabilities of $10.3 million and trade accounts payable of $45.5 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities during the nine months ended March 30, 2014 was $190.7 million, primarily consisting of capital expenditures of $103.7 million and net purchases of available for sale securities of $128.9 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during the nine months ended March 30, 2014 was $151.4 million, primarily consisting of $204.6 million in treasury stock repurchases partially offset by net proceeds from issuance of Common Stock related to employee equity-based plans of $54.5 million. Liquidity Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Anticipated cash flows from operations based on our current business outlook, combined with our current levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments at March 30, 2014, are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, capital expenditures, capital redistributions and dividends, through at least the next 12 months. However, uncertainty in the global economy and the semiconductor industry, as well as disruptions in credit markets have in the past, and could in the future, impact customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. On March 12, 2014 the Company entered into a $300 million revolving unsecured credit facility with a syndicate of lenders that matures on March 12, 2019. The facility includes an option for the Company to, subject to certain requirements, request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $200 million, for a potential total commitment of $500 million. Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for general corporate purposes. Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is, at the Companys option, based on (i) a base rate, defined as the greatest of (a) prime rate, (b) Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.5% or (ii) LIBOR plus a spread of 0.9% to 1.5%, in each case the applicable spread is determined based on the rating of the Companys non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt. Principal, and any accrued and unpaid interest, is due and payable upon maturity. Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Companys rating described above. The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including maintaining a total consolidated indebtedness to consolidated capitalization ratio of no more than 0.5 to 1.0 and maintaining unrestricted or unencumbered cash and investments of no less than $1.0 billion. As of March 30, 2014, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and were in compliance with all financial covenants. 32 Table of Contents In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While we have substantial cash balances in the United States and offshore, we may require additional funding and need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.