ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as believe, anticipate, expect, may, should, could and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking is not intended to mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to: trends in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, revenue and operating expenses generally; managements plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus; volatility in our quarterly results; customer and end user requirements, and our ability to satisfy those requirements; our ability to address critical steps in the fabrication process; our ability to develop technologies and productivity solutions that benefit our customers, and to facilitate our customers ability to meet more stringent performance or design standards; customer capital spending and their demand for our products; the reliability of indicators of change in customer spending and demand; the effect of variability in our customers business plans on demand for our equipment and services; changes in demand for our products and in our market share resulting from, among other things, increases in our customers proportion of capital expenditures (with respect to certain technology inflections); our ability to defend our market share and to gain new market share; factors that affect our tax rates; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer-fabrication equipment and our growth relative to such growth; levels of research and development expenditures; outsourced activities; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax liabilities and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our access to capital markets; our intention to pay quarterly dividends and the amounts thereof, if any; our ability and intention to repurchase our shares; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements and capital expenditures). Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 29, 2014 (our 2014 Form 10-K), our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2014, and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. 22 Table of Contents Documents To Review In Connection With Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three and six months ended December 28, 2014, and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2014 Form 10-K. Overview Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations consist of the following sections: Executive Summary provides an overview of the Companys operations and a summary of certain highlights of our results of operations Results of Operations provides an analysis of operating results Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates discusses accounting policies that reflect the more significant judgments and estimates we use to prepare our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Liquidity and Capital Resources provides an analysis of cash flows and financial position EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Lam Research has been an innovative supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry for more than 30 years. Our customers include semiconductor manufacturers that make memory, microprocessors, and other logic integrated circuits for a wide range of electronics; including cell phones, computers, storage devices and networking equipment. Our market-leading products are designed to help our customers build the smaller, faster and more power-efficient devices that are necessary to power the capabilities required by end users. The process of integrated circuits fabrication consists of a complex series of process and preparation steps, and Lams product offerings in deposition, etch and clean address a number of the most critical steps in the fabrication process. We leverage our expertise in semiconductor processing to develop technology and productivity solutions that typically benefit our customers through lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and reduced cost as well as by facilitating their ability to meet more stringent performance and design standards. The semiconductor capital equipment industry has been highly competitive and subject to business cycles that historically have been characterized by rapid changes in demand. More recently, with consolidation in the customer base, the cyclical behavior appears to have diminished somewhat. With a reduced number of customers, variability in their business plans may lead to changes in demand for Lams equipment and services over certain periods. The variability in our customers investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. Demand for our products was strong throughout calendar year 2014 as semiconductor device manufacturers made capacity and technology investments. Technology inflections in our industry including FinFET transistors, 3D NAND and multiple patterning, have led to an increase in the deposition, etch and clean market sizes. The capacity spending of our customers, as well as strengthened market share in these technology inflections, contributed to increased revenue in the 2014 calendar year as compared to the 2013 calendar year. We believe that, over the longer term, demand for our products should increase as the proportion of customers capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas, and we continue to gain market share. The following summarizes certain key financial information for the periods indicated below: Three Months Ended December 28, 2014 September 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 (In thousands, except percentage and per share data) Revenue $ 1,232,241 $ 1,152,368 $ 1,116,061 Gross margin $ 536,657 $ 505,539 $ 487,789 Gross margin as a percentage of revenue 43.6 % 43.9 % 43.7 % Total operating expenses $ 347,916 $ 337,241 $ 323,315 Net income $ 176,940 $ 141,081 $ 148,992 Diluted net income per share $ 1.00 $ 0.80 $ 0.87 23 Table of Contents In the December 2014 quarter, revenue increased compared to the quarter ended September 28, 2014 (the September 2014 quarter), as a result of strong memory segment spending growth partially offset by a small decline in the foundry segment. Gross margin as a percent of revenue in the December 2014 quarter decreased slightly as compared to the September 2014 quarter due to changes in product mix. Operating expenses in the December 2014 quarter increased compared to the September 2014 quarter related primarily to our increased investment in R&D. Our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances totaled approximately $3.0 billion as of December 28, 2014 and September 28, 2014. Cash generated by operations was approximately $161 million during the December 2014 quarter. We used cash during the December 2014 quarter to repurchase $66 million of our shares and purchase $61 million of property and equipment. Employee headcount increased as of December 28, 2014 as compared to September 28, 2014 by approximately 300 people to approximately 6,900 people. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Shipments Three Months Ended December 28, 2014 September 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 Shipments (in millions) $ 1,247 $ 1,111 $ 1,139 Taiwan 23 % 21 % 22 % Korea 30 % 16 % 24 % United States 16 % 25 % 9 % Japan 13 % 11 % 13 % China 7 % 8 % 21 % Southeast Asia 4 % 11 % 4 % Europe 7 % 8 % 7 % Shipments for the December 2014 quarter increased 12% compared to the September 2014 quarter and increased 9% compared to the December 2013 quarter reflecting increases in customer demand for semiconductor equipment. The percentage of total system shipments to each of the market segments we serve were as follows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended December 28, 2014 September 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 Memory 53 % 44 % 64 % Foundry 32 % 45 % 28 % Logic/integrated device manufacturing 15 % 11 % 8 % Revenue Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 28, 2014 September 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 December 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 Revenue (in millions) $ 1,232 $ 1,152 $ 1,116 $ 2,385 $ 2,131 Taiwan 25 % 18 % 28 % 22 % 26 % Korea 24 % 19 % 19 % 21 % 21 % United States 18 % 28 % 13 % 23 % 13 % Japan 12 % 10 % 17 % 11 % 15 % China 8 % 9 % 12 % 8 % 10 % Southeast Asia 7 % 9 % 6 % 8 % 8 % Europe 6 % 7 % 5 % 7 % 7 % Revenue for the December 2014 quarter increased 7% compared to the September 2014 quarter, and increased 10% as compared to the December 2013 quarter, reflecting the increase in the market noted in the shipment section above. Our deferred revenue balance increased to $374 million as of December 28, 2014 compared to $357 million as of September 28, 2014. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to Japanese customers, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The anticipated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $53 million as of December 28, 2014 and $34 million as of September 28, 2014. 24 Table of Contents Gross Margin Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 28, 2014 September 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 December 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross margin $ 536,657 $ 505,539 $ 487,789 $ 1,042,196 $ 919,647 Percent of revenue 43.6 % 43.9 % 43.7 % 43.7 % 43.2 % The slight decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue during the December 2014 quarter as compared to the September 2014 quarter was due to a less favorable product mix. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue during the December 2014 quarter is down slightly when compared to the December 2013 quarter primarily due to a less favorable product mix. Research and Development Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 28, 2014 September 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 December 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development (R&D) $ 196,768 $ 188,934 $ 174,477 $ 385,702 $ 345,044 Percent of revenue 16.0 % 16.4 % 15.6 % 16.2 % 16.2 % We continue to make significant R&D investments focused on leading-edge deposition, plasma etch, single-wafer clean and other semiconductor manufacturing requirements. The increased R&D spending as a percent of revenue from the September 2014 quarter to the December 2014 quarter reflects the continued spending on technologies for the industry inflection points. The increased total spending during the December 2014 quarter compared to the September 2014 quarter was primarily due to a $6 million increase in supplies. The increase in R&D expenses during the December 2014 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to a $13 million increase in employee compensation, reflecting an increase in our product development efforts and a $4 million increase in supplies. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 28, 2014 September 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 December 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) $ 151,148 $ 148,307 $ 148,838 $ 299,455 $ 304,721 Percent of revenue 12.3 % 12.9 % 13.3 % 12.6 % 14.3 % The increase in SG&A expenses during the December 2014 quarter compared to the September 2014 quarter was primarily due to a $2 million facility-related restructuring charge and a $2 million increase in outside services. SG&A expense in the December 2014 quarter increased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year. In the December 2014 quarter, there was a $2 million facility-related restructuring charge, $2 million increase in salaries and benefits, and a $3 million increase in outside services, offset by a $3 million decrease in integration costs. 25 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consisted of the following: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 28, 2014 September 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 December 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 (in thousands) Interest income $ 4,024 $ 3,288 $ 2,828 $ 7,312 $ 5,551 Interest expense (15,797 ) (15,704 ) (15,297 ) (31,501 ) (30,599 ) Gains on deferred compensation plan related assets 2,593 2,416 5,360 5,009 5,397 Foreign exchange gains (losses) (130 ) 906 125 776 (97 ) Other, net (489 ) 3,446 3,147 2,957 1,649 $ (9,799 ) $ (5,648 ) $ (3,837 ) $ (15,447 ) $ (18,099 ) Interest income increased in the three and the six months ended December 28, 2014, as compared to the three and six months ended December 29, 2013 as a result of higher cash and investment balances. In the three and six months ended December 28, 2014, as compared to the three and six months ended December 29, 2013, we recognized gains on assets that are related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan, due to changes in the market value of securities in this portfolio. Foreign exchange losses in the three months ended December 28, 2014 and foreign exchange gains both in the September 2014 quarter and the December 2014 quarter were related to un-hedged portions of the balance sheet exposures. During the six months ended December 28, 2014, we sold substantially all of Peter Wolters, a wholly owned subsidiary acquired as part of the Novellus acquisition. Net pre-tax gain of approximately $7 million associated with this divestiture is included in Other, net. Other, net for the three and six months ended December 29, 2013 was primarily due to a gain on disposition of a private equity investment of approximately $5 million. Income Tax Expense Our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 December 28, 2014 December 29, 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 2,002 $ 11,645 $ 23,571 $ 17,285 Effective tax rate 1.1 % 7.2 % 6.9 % 6.9 % The change in the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 28, 2014 compared to the three months ended December 29, 2013 was primarily due to the change in level of income, the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research and development tax credit for part of fiscal year 2014. The effective tax rate for the six months ended December 28, 2014 remains consistent compared to the six months ended December 29, 2013. International revenues account for a significant portion of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pre-tax income is earned and taxed outside the United States at rates that are generally lower than in the United States. Please refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2014 Form 10-K. Uncertain Tax Positions We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. 26 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and/or subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We based our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believed to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition: We recognize all revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, and we have received customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. If the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue when it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed-to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, we recognize revenue upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. We allocate revenue from multiple-element arrangements among the separate elements based on their relative selling prices, provided the elements have value on a stand-alone basis. Our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return. The maximum revenue we recognize on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. We generally recognize revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits upon shipment. We generally recognize revenue related to services upon completion of the services requested by a customer order. We recognize revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. When goods or services have been delivered to the customer but all conditions for revenue recognition have not been met, we record deferred revenue and/or deferred costs of sales in deferred profit on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Inventory Valuation: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using standard costs that approximate actual costs on a first-in, first-out basis. We maintain a perpetual inventory system and continuously record the quantity on-hand and standard cost for each product, including purchased components, subassemblies, and finished goods. We maintain the integrity of perpetual inventory records through periodic physical counts of quantities on hand. Finished goods are reported as inventories until the point of title transfer to the customer. Unless specified in the terms of sale, title generally transfers when we complete physical transfer of the products to the freight carrier. Transfer of title for shipments to Japanese customers generally occurs at the time of customer acceptance. Management evaluates the need to record adjustments for impairment of inventory at least quarterly. Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirement is written down to its estimated market value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include, but are not limited to, managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and/or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of goods sold in the period in which we make the revision. Warranty: Typically, the sale of semiconductor capital equipment includes providing parts and service warranties to customers as part of the overall price of the system. We provide standard warranties for our systems. We record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system when we recognize revenue. We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. The amount recorded is based on an analysis of historical activity that uses factors such as type of system, customer, geographic region, and any known factors such as tool reliability trends. All actual or estimated parts and labor costs incurred in subsequent periods are charged to those established reserves on a system-by-system basis. While we periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. In addition to the provision of standard warranties, we offer customer-paid extended warranty services. Revenues for extended maintenance and warranty services with a fixed payment amount are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Related costs are recorded as incurred. 27 Table of Contents Equity-based Compensation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and Employee Stock Plans: GAAP requires us to recognize the fair value of equity-based compensation in net income. We determine the fair value of our restricted stock units (RSUs), excluding market-based performance RSUs, based upon the fair market value of Company stock at the date of grant. We estimate the fair value of our market-based performance RSUs using a Monte Carlo simulation model at the date of the grant. We estimate the fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires us to input highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. We amortize the fair value of equity-based awards over the vesting periods of the awards, and we have elected to use the straight-line method of amortization. We make quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our tax credit pool related to equity-based compensation to determine if there are any deficiencies that we are required to recognize in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. We will only recognize a benefit from stock-based compensation in paid-in-capital if we realize an incremental tax benefit after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit through the income statement (continuing operations) rather than through paid-in-capital. We have also elected to net deferred tax assets and the associated valuation allowance related to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for the accumulated stock award tax benefits for income tax footnote disclosure purposes. We track these stock award attributes separately and will only recognize these attributes through paid-in-capital. Income Taxes: Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more-likely-than-not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at the time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: The valuation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination requires the use of management estimates including but not limited to estimating future expected cash flows from assets acquired and determining discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available. Goodwill represents the amount by which the purchase price in each business combination exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Each component of the Company for which discrete financial information is available and for which management regularly reviews the results of operations is considered a reporting unit. All goodwill acquired in a business combination is assigned to one or more reporting units as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is assigned to the Companys reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. The goodwill assigned to a reporting unit is the difference between the acquisition consideration assigned to the reporting unit on a relative fair value basis and the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities that can be specifically attributed to the reporting unit. We test goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment at least annually. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives, and we review for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the intangible asset may not be recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. 28 Table of Contents We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we would perform an impairment test at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to our reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units, as some of the assets and liabilities related to those reporting units are not held by those reporting units but by a corporate function. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in-process R&D and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. In our goodwill impairment analysis we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. We do not calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. Our most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed as of the first day of our fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, March 31, 2014, did not result in a goodwill impairment charge, nor did we record any goodwill impairment in fiscal years 2013 or 2012. As a result of historical performance and growth potential, our single-wafer clean systems reporting unit may be at greater risk for goodwill impairment than our other reporting units if our actual results for this reporting unit differ from our projections. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using a weighted combination of both a market and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the most indicative of fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market approach, we use information regarding the reporting unit as well as publicly available industry information to determine various financial multiples to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit for the purposes of our annual or periodic analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. We also consider our market capitalization and that of our competitors on the date we perform the analysis. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. As a result, several factors could result in impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including, but not limited to: (1) weakening of the global economy, weakness in the semiconductor equipment industry, or our failure to reach our internal forecasts, which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated discounted cash flow value of our reporting units; and (2) a decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization, if we determine that the decline is sustained and indicates a reduction in the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. In addition, the value we assign to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on our estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from our estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update 2013-11 Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists. The new standard requires that an unrecognized tax benefit should be presented as a reduction of a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward or other tax credit carryforward when settlement in this manner is available under the tax law. We adopted this standard during the fiscal year without significant impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In April 2014, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update 2014-8 Presentation of Financial Statements and Property, Plant and Equipment: Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosure of Disposals of Components of an Entity. The new standard re-defines discontinued operations and requires only those disposals of components of an entity, including classifications as held for sale, that represent a strategic shift that has, or will have, a major effect on an entitys operations and financial results to be reported as discontinued operations. In addition, the new standard expands the disclosure requirements of discontinued operations. We adopted this standard during the fiscal quarter without significant impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 29 Table of Contents In May 2014, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update 2014-9 Revenue from Contracts with Customers to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. The new standard defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. We are required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 using either of two methods: (i) retrospective to each prior reporting period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within the standard; or (ii) retrospective with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures as defined per the standard. We have not yet selected a transition method, and have not determined the impact that the new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 28, 2014, we had $3.0 billion in gross cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments (total cash and investments) compared to $3.2 billion as of June 29, 2014. Approximately $2.4 billion and $2.2 billion of our total cash and investments as of December 28, 2014 and June 29, 2014, respectively, was held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, the majority of which is held in U.S. Dollars and would be subject to tax at U.S. rates if it were to be repatriated. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $302 million during the six months ended December 28, 2014 consisted of (in millions): Net income $ 318 Non-cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 137 Equity-based compensation 63 Amortization of convertible note discount 17 Deferred income taxes 7 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts (239 ) Other (1 ) $ 302 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts, net of foreign exchange impact, included the following uses of cash: increases in accounts receivable of $144.2 million, inventories of $173.0 million and prepaid expense and other assets of $43.6 million, partially offset by sources of cash resulting from increases in trade accounts payable, accrued liabilities and deferred profit of $72.8 million, $30.2 million, and $18.8 million, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities during the six months ended December 28, 2014 was $371.0 million, primarily consisting of capital expenditures of $103.2 million and net purchases of available-for-sale securities of $311.9 million, off-set by net proceeds on sale of business of $41.2 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during the six months ended December 28, 2014 was $396.6 million, primarily consisting of $374.0 million in treasury stock repurchases and $58.6 million of dividends paid, partially offset by net proceeds from issuance of Common Stock related to employee equity-based plans of $25.8 million. 30 Table of Contents Liquidity Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Anticipated cash flows from operations based on our current business outlook, combined with our current levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments at December 28, 2014, are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, capital expenditures, capital redistributions and dividends, through at least the next 12 months. However, uncertainty in the global economy and the semiconductor industry, as well as disruptions in credit markets, have in the past, and could in the future, impact customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While we have substantial cash balances in the United States and offshore, we may require additional funding and need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.