ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as believe, anticipate, expect, may, should, could, and estimated other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking is not intended to mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to: trends and opportunities in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, international sales, revenue and operating expenses generally; managements plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus; volatility in our quarterly results; customer and end user requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products, and the reliability of indicators of change in customer spending and demand; the effect of variability in our customers' business plans on demand for our equipment and services; changes in demand for our products and in our market share resulting from, among other things, increases in our customers' proportion of capital expenditure (with respect to certain technology inflections); hedging transactions; our ability to defend our market share; our ability to obtain and qualify alternative sources of supply; factors that affect our tax rates; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer fabrication equipment and our growth relative to such growth; levels of research and development expenditures; the success of joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other industry members, and outsourced activities; the role of component suppliers in our business; the resources invested to comply with evolving standards and the impact of such efforts; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax liabilities and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our access to capital markets; our intention to pay quarterly dividends and the amounts thereof, if any; our ability and intention to repurchase our shares; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements and capital expenditures). Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 26, 2016 (our 2016 Form 10-K) and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. Documents To Review In Connection With Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three months ended September 25, 2016 , and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2016 Form 10-K. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Lam Research Corporation (Lam Research, Lam, we, or our) has been an innovative supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry for more than 35 years. Our customers include semiconductor manufacturers that make memory, microprocessors, and other logic integrated circuits for a wide range of electronics; including mobile phones, computers, tablets, wearables, automotive features, storage devices, and networking equipment. Our market-leading products are designed to help our customers build small, fast, and sophisticated chips essential to computing devices, cars, cloud services and other technologies and devices that power the modern economy. The process of integrated circuits fabrication consists of a complex series of process and preparation steps, and our product offerings in deposition, etch, and clean address a number of the most critical steps in the fabrication process. We leverage our expertise in semiconductor processing to develop technology and/or productivity solutions that typically benefit our customers through 27 Table of Contents lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and reduced cost as well as by facilitating their ability to meet more stringent performance and design standards. The semiconductor capital equipment industry has been highly competitive and characterized by rapid changes in demand. Industry cyclicality has been mitigated in recent years by market demands and consolidation among our customers. However, with a reduced number of customers, variability in their business plans can lead to rapid changes in demand for Lams equipment and services. The variability in our customers investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. Demand for our products increased in the quarter ended September 25, 2016 (the "September 2016 quarter") compared to the quarter ended June 26, 2016 (the "June 2016 quarter') primarily as foundry customers made capacity and technology investments. This demand trend manifested as higher shipments in the September 2016 quarter, and we believe demand for our products will strengthen over the next quarter. Technology inflections in our industry, including FinFET transistors, 3D NAND, multiple patterning and advanced packaging have led to an increase in our served addressable market for our deposition and etch products. We believe that, over the longer term, demand for our products should increase as the proportion of customers capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas and we continue to gain market share. In October 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with KLA-Tencor Corporation. On October 5, 2016, we announced that both parties have mutually agreed to terminate that agreement. The following summarizes certain key financial information for the periods indicated below: Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 (in thousands, except per share data and percentages) Revenue $ 1,632,419 $ 1,546,261 $ 1,600,043 Gross margin $ 716,197 $ 698,784 $ 722,363 Gross margin as a percent of total revenue 43.9 % 45.2 % 45.1 % Total operating expenses $ 400,250 $ 389,543 $ 386,935 Net income $ 263,835 $ 258,939 $ 288,679 Diluted net income per share $ 1.47 $ 1.46 $ 1.66 In the September 2016 quarter, revenue increased compared to the June 2016 quarter, primarily as a result of an increase in investment from our foundry customers. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2016 quarter decreased as compared to the June 2016 quarter due to changes in customer concentration and product mix. Operating expenses in the September 2016 quarter increased compared to the June 2016 quarter mainly due to a $15 million gain recognized in June 2016 for the sale of assets, net of associated exit costs. Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased to approximately $7.5 billion as of September 25, 2016 as compared to $ 7.1 billion as of June 26, 2016 . Cash generated by operations was approximately $473 million during the September 2016 quarter. We used cash during the September 2016 quarter for $42 million of capital expenditures and $48 million of dividends paid to our stockholders. Employee headcount as of September 25, 2016 was approximately 7,800 people. 28 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Shipments Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 Shipments (in millions) $ 1,708 $ 1,587 $ 1,579 Taiwan 26 % 20 % 26 % Korea 28 % 15 % 13 % Japan 11 % 14 % 17 % China 11 % 17 % 25 % Southeast Asia 11 % 20 % 8 % United States 8 % 10 % 8 % Europe 5 % 4 % 3 % Shipments for the September 2016 quarter increased 8% from both the June 2016 and September 2015 quarter levels, reflecting continued strengthening of customer demand for semiconductor equipment. The increase in the September 2016 quarter from the June 2016 quarter was mainly driven by investments from our Foundry customers. The percentages of system shipments to each of the markets we serve were as follows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 Memory 56 % 66 % 72 % Foundry 36 % 27 % 18 % Logic/integrated device manufacturing 8 % 7 % 10 % Revenue Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 Revenue (in millions) $ 1,632 $ 1,546 $ 1,600 Taiwan 26 % 15 % 28 % Korea 23 % 15 % 17 % Japan 15 % 14 % 18 % China 14 % 22 % 16 % Southeast Asia 12 % 21 % 8 % United States 7 % 10 % 9 % Europe 3 % 3 % 4 % Revenue for the September 2016 quarter increased 6% from the June 2016 quarter and increased 2% compared to the September 2015 quarter, reflecting an increase in technology and capacity investments by our customers. Our deferred revenue balance increased to $704 million as of September 25, 2016 compared to $566 million as of June 26, 2016 , as a result of timing of shipments. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to Japanese customers, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $65 million as of September 25, 2016 and $132 million as of June 26, 2016 . 29 Table of Contents Gross Margin Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross margin $ 716,197 $ 698,784 $ 722,363 Percent of total revenue 43.9 % 45.2 % 45.1 % Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2016 quarter decreased as compared to the June 2016 quarter as well as the September 2015 quarter due primarily to unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. Research and Development Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 (in thousands, except percentages) Research & development (R&D) $ 235,240 $ 237,255 $ 234,209 Percent of total revenue 14.4 % 15.3 % 14.6 % We continued to make significant R&D investments focused on leading-edge deposition, plasma etch, single-wafer clean and other semiconductor manufacturing requirements. The spending in the September 2016 quarter decreased compared to the June 2016 quarter mainly due to a $5 million decrease in campus consolidation costs offset by an increase of $2 million in employee compensation and $1 million in depreciation and amortization. The increase in R&D expenses during the September 2016 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was mainly due to a $8 million increase in salaries and benefits from increased headcount and a $3 million increase in outside services, offset by a $12 million decrease in supplies resulting from lower project materials and wafer spend. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general & administrative (SG&A) $ 165,010 $ 152,288 $ 152,726 Percent of total revenue 10.1 % 9.8 % 9.5 % The increase in SG&A expenses during the September 2016 quarter compared to the June 2016 quarter was due to a $15 million gain on sale of assets, net of associated exit cost, recognized in June 2016, a $2 million increase in rent, and a $3 million increase in employee compensation offset by a $9 million decrease in KLA-Tencor acquisition-related costs. The increase in SG&A expenses during the September 2016 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was due to a $5 million increase in salaries and benefits from an increased headcount and a $10 million increase from KLA-Tencor acquisition-related costs. 30 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consisted of the following: Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 (in thousands) Interest income $ 12,763 $ 8,875 $ 5,760 Interest expense (41,429 ) (33,479 ) (24,661 ) Gains (losses) on deferred compensation plan related assets, net 6,172 185 (5,164 ) Foreign exchange gains (losses), net 1,219 (1,963 ) (698 ) Other, net (1,879 ) (867 ) (2,358 ) $ (23,154 ) $ (27,249 ) $ (27,121 ) Interest income increased in the September 2016 quarter, as compared to the June 2016 quarter and September 2016 quarter, primarily as a result of higher average cash and investment balances. Interest expense increased in the September 2016 quarter, as compared to both the June 2016 and September 2015 quarter, due to the $2.4 billion Senior Note issuance in the June 2016 quarter. Changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the noted variability in the gains/losses on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. Foreign exchange gains in the September 2016 quarter, in comparison to losses in the June 2016 and September 2015 quarters, were related to volatility in the foreign currency market and its impact on unhedged portions of the balance sheet exposures. Income Tax Expense Our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended September 25, 2016 June 26, 2016 September 27, 2015 (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 28,958 $ 23,053 $ 19,628 Effective tax rate 9.9 % 8.2 % 6.4 % The increase in the effective tax rate for the September 2016 quarter compared to the June 2016 quarter was primarily due to the change in level and proportion of income in higher and lower tax jurisdictions. The increase in the effective tax rate for the September 2016 quarter compared to the same period in 2015 was primarily due to the change in level and proportion of income in higher and lower tax jurisdictions, and recognition of the tax benefit of the Altera court ruling net of federal research and development credit expiration in the September 2015 quarter. International revenues account for a significant portion of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pre-tax income is earned and taxed outside the United States at rates that are generally lower than in the United States. Please refer to Note 6 of the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2016 Form 10-K for additional information. Uncertain Tax Positions We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. 31 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and/or subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our critical accounting estimates include: the recognition and valuation of revenue from multiple-element arrangements, which impacts revenue; the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin; the valuation of warranty reserves, which impacts gross margin; the valuation of equity based compensation expense, including forfeiture estimates, which impacts both gross margin and operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions, which impact our provision for income tax expenses; and the valuation and recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts gross margin and operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation or amortization. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements regarding the critical accounting estimates indicated above. Revenue Recognition: We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, and we have received customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. If the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue when it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed-to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, we recognize revenue upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. We allocate revenue from multiple-element arrangements among the separate elements using their relative selling prices, based on our best estimate of selling price. Our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return. The maximum revenue recognized on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. We generally recognize revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits upon shipment. We generally recognize revenue related to services upon completion of the services requested by a customer order. We recognize revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. When goods or services have been delivered to the customer, but all conditions for revenue recognition have not been met, deferred revenue and deferred costs are recorded in deferred profit on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Inventory Valuation: Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirement is written down to its estimated market value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include, but are not limited to, managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and/or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of goods sold in the period in which we make the revision. Warranty: We record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system when we recognize revenue. We periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. We do not maintain a general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. 32 Table of Contents Equity-based Compensation: Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and Employee Stock Plans: We determine the fair value of our restricted stock units (RSUs), excluding market-based performance RSUs, based upon the fair market value of our common stock at the date of grant, discounted for dividends. We estimate the fair value of our market-based performance RSUs using a Monte Carlo simulation model at the date of the grant. We estimate the fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. We amortize the fair value of equity-based awards over the vesting periods of the award and we have elected to use the straight-line method of amortization. We estimate expected equity award forfeitures based on historical forfeiture rate activity and expected future employee turnover. We recognize the effect of adjustments made to the forfeiture rate, if any in the period that we change the forfeiture estimate. Income Taxes: Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more-likely-than-not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more-likely-than-not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at the time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Long-lived assets: We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we will perform an impairment test at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to the reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in-process R&D and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. In our goodwill impairment process we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. We do not calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless we determine, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the reporting units fair value is less than its carrying amount. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. As a result, several factors could result in an impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including, but not limited to: (1) weakening of the global economy, weakness in the semiconductor equipment industry, or our failure to reach internal forecasts, which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated discounted cash flow value of our reporting units; and (2) a decline in our common stock price and resulting market capitalization, to the extent we determine that the decline is sustained and indicates a reduction in the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. Further, the value assigned to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. 33 Table of Contents For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the assets carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the assets new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 2, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of our Condensed Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part 1 of this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of September 25, 2016 , we had $7.5 billion in gross cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments (together comprising total cash and investments) compared to $7.1 billion as of June 26, 2016 . As a result of the October 5, 2016 termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with KLA-Tencor, our Senior Notes maturing in 2023 and 2026 were redeemed on October 13, 2016 under the Special Mandatory Redemption terms of the indenture governing these Notes, thereby reducing our total cash and investment balance by approximately $1.6 billion. Approximately $3.5 billion and $3.1 billion of our total cash and investments as of September 25, 2016 and June 26, 2016 , respectively, was held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, the majority of which is held in U.S. Dollars and, of which, substantially all would be subject to tax at U.S. rates if it were to be repatriated. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $473.2 million during the three months ended September 25, 2016 consisted of (in millions): Net income $ 263.8 Non-cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 74.6 Equity-based compensation 38.6 Deferred income taxes 7.6 Amortization of note discounts and issuance costs 6.8 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts 65.0 Other 16.8 $ 473.2 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts, net of foreign exchange impact, included the following uses of cash: increases in accounts receivable of $27.2 million and prepaid expense and other assets of $16.9 million. The uses of cash are offset by sources of cash resulting from a decrease in inventory of $26.9 million, increases in trade accounts payable of $11.1 million, accrued expenses and other liabilities of $3.1 million, and an increase in deferred profit of $68.0 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended September 25, 2016 was $376.8 million , primarily consisting of net sales of available-for-sale securities of $431.8 million offset by capital expenditures of $42.0 million . Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during the three months ended September 25, 2016 was $29.5 million , primarily consisting of $1.9 million in treasury stock repurchases, $48.1 million of dividends paid, partially offset by $20.8 million of stock issuance and treasury stock reissuances associated with our employee stock-based compensation plans. 34 Table of Contents Liquidity Given that the semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and has experienced rapid changes in demand historically, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Anticipated cash flows from operations based on our current business outlook, combined with our current levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments as of September 25, 2016 , are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, capital expenditures, capital redistributions, and dividends, through at least the next 12 months. However, uncertainty in the global economy and the semiconductor industry, as well as disruptions in credit markets, have in the past, and could in the future, impact customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. As a result of the October 5, 2016 termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with KLA-Tencor, the 2023 Notes and the 2026 Notes were redeemed on October 13, 2016 under the Special Mandatory Redemption terms of the indenture governing these Notes. We were required to redeem all of the 2023 Notes and the 2026 Notes then outstanding, on October 13, 2016, at a special mandatory redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the date of initial issuance. On May 13, 2016, we entered into an Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement (the Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement), which amends and restates the Term Loan Agreement we entered into on November 10, 2015 with a syndicate of lenders. The Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement provides for a commitment of $1,530.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility composed of two tranches (the "Commitments"); (i) a $1,005.0 million tranche of 3-year senior unsecured loans; and (ii) a $525.0 million tranche of 5-year senior unsecured loans. The Commitments automatically terminated on October 5, 2016, upon termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization with KLA-Tencor Corporation. In the long term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While we have substantial cash balances in the United States and offshore, we may require additional funding and need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.