ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as believe, anticipate, expect, plan, aim, may, should, could, would, continue, and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking does not mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements that relate to: trends and opportunities in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures, international sales, revenue and operating expenses generally; managements plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus; volatility in our quarterly results; customer and end user requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products, and the reliability of indicators of change in customer spending and demand; the effect of variability in our customers business plans on demand for our equipment and services; changes in demand for our products and in our market share resulting from, among other things, increases in our customers proportion of capital expenditure (with respect to certain technology inflections); hedging transactions; our ability to defend our market share and to gain new market share; our ability to obtain and qualify alternative sources of supply; factors that affect our tax rates; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer fabrication equipment and our growth relative to such growth; the success of joint development and collaboration relationships with customers, suppliers, or others; outsourced activities; the role of component suppliers in our business; our leadership and competency, and their ability to facilitate innovation; our ability to continue to, including the underlying factors that, create sustainable differentiation; the resources invested to comply with evolving standards and the impact of such efforts; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax liabilities, and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our access to capital markets; our intention to pay quarterly dividends and the amounts thereof, if any; our ability and intention to repurchase our shares; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures). Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 25, 2017 (our 2017 Form 10-K), and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. Documents To Review In Connection With Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three months ended September 24, 2017 , and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2017 Form 10-K. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Lam Research is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines. Our products and services are designed to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic products, including mobile phones, personal computers, servers, wearables, automotive devices, storage devices, and networking equipment. Our vision is to realize full value from natural technology extensions of our company. 25 Table of Contents Our customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers that make products such as non-volatile memory (NVM), DRAM memory, and logic devices. We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success. Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer. Semiconductor manufacturing, our customers business, involves the complete fabrication of multiple dies or integrated circuits on a wafer. This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps. Fabricating these devices requires highly sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective. Demand from cloud computing, Internet of Things, and other markets is driving the need for increasingly powerful and cost-efficient semiconductors. At the same time, there are growing technical challenges with traditional two-dimensional scaling. These trends are driving significant inflections in semiconductor manufacturing, such as the increasing importance of vertical scaling strategies like 3D architectures as well as multiple patterning to enable shrinks. We believe we are in a strong position with our leadership and competency in deposition, etch, and single-wafer clean to facilitate some of the most significant innovations in semiconductor device manufacturing. Several factors create opportunity for sustainable differentiation for us: our focus on research and development, with a breadth of programs across sustaining engineering, product and process development, and concept and feasibility; our ability to effectively leverage cycles of learning from our broad installed base; and our collaborative focus with ecosystem partners. During the most recent quarter, demand for our products remained stable with increased investments from our logic customers and continued investments from our memory customers. Technology inflections in our industry, including NVM, multiple patterning, FinFET and advanced packaging have led to an increase in the served addressable market for our products in deposition, etch, single-wafer clean, and customer service business. We believe that demand for our products and services should increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas and we continue to gain market share. We acquired the outstanding shares of Coventor, Inc., a privately-held company, on August 28, 2017, as further discussed in Note 15 of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The results of the acquired business are included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The following summarizes certain key financial information for the periods indicated below: Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 (in thousands, except per share data and percentages) Revenue $ 2,478,140 $ 2,344,907 $ 1,632,419 Gross margin $ 1,149,343 $ 1,068,961 $ 716,197 Gross margin as a percent of total revenue 46.4 % 45.6 % 43.9 % Total operating expenses $ 456,121 $ 461,022 $ 400,250 Net income $ 590,690 $ 526,424 $ 263,835 Diluted net income per share $ 3.21 $ 2.82 $ 1.47 In the September 2017 quarter, revenue increased compared to the June 2017 quarter as modest shipment declines were offset by timing of revenue recognition. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2017 quarter increased as compared to the June 2017 quarter primarily due to favorable customer and product mix. Operating expenses in the September 2017 quarter decreased compared to the June 2017 quarter mainly due to lower spend associated with business process reengineering partially offset by acquisition-related costs. Our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments balances increased slightly to $6.4 billion as of September 24, 2017 , in comparison to the same balance as of June 25, 2017 . Cash generated by operations was approximately $858 million during the September 2017 quarter. We used cash during the September 2017 quarter for approximately $302 million of principal payments on debt, primarily related to our convertible notes, $155 million of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $116 million for business acquisitions, $73 million of dividends paid to our stockholders, and $60 million of capital expenditures. Employee headcount as of September 24, 2017 , was approximately 9,800 . 26 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Shipments Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 Shipments (in millions) $ 2,382 $ 2,543 $ 1,708 Korea 38 % 36 % 28 % Japan 19 % 21 % 11 % Taiwan 15 % 14 % 26 % China 10 % 16 % 11 % United States 8 % 8 % 8 % Southeast Asia 5 % 2 % 11 % Europe 5 % 3 % 5 % Shipments for the September 2017 quarter decreased 6% from the June 2017 and increased 39% from the September 2016 quarter levels, reflecting timing of customer demand for semiconductor equipment. The increase in the September 2017 quarter from the September 2016 quarter was mainly driven by investments from our memory and logic customers. The percentages of system shipments to each of the markets we serve were as follows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 Memory 66 % 73 % 56 % Foundry 21 % 22 % 36 % Logic/integrated device manufacturing 13 % 5 % 8 % Revenue Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 Revenue (in millions) $ 2,478 $ 2,345 $ 1,632 Korea 38 % 38 % 23 % Japan 20 % 17 % 15 % Taiwan 14 % 16 % 26 % China 14 % 16 % 14 % United States 6 % 9 % 7 % Southeast Asia 5 % 1 % 12 % Europe 3 % 3 % 3 % Revenue for the September 2017 quarter increased 6% from the June 2017 quarter and increased 52% compared to the September 2016 quarter, as modest shipment declines were offset by timing of revenue recognition. Our deferred revenue balance decreased to $938 million as of September 24, 2017 , compared to $966 million as of June 25, 2017 , as a result of timing of shipments and revenue recognition. Our deferred revenue balance does not include system shipments to Japanese customers, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $344 million as of September 24, 2017 , and $397 million as of June 25, 2017 . 27 Table of Contents Gross Margin Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross margin $ 1,149,343 $ 1,068,961 $ 716,197 Percent of total revenue 46.4 % 45.6 % 43.9 % Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the September 2017 quarter increased compared to the June 2017 and the September 2016 quarter primarily due to favorable changes in customer and product mix. Research and Development Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 (in thousands, except percentages) Research & development (R&D) $ 275,078 $ 285,712 $ 235,240 Percent of total revenue 11.1 % 12.2 % 14.4 % We continued to make significant R&D investments focused on leading-edge deposition, plasma etch, single-wafer clean and other semiconductor manufacturing requirements. The spending in the September 2017 quarter decreased compared to the June 2017 quarter mainly due to decreases of $8 million in supplies, $5 million in variable compensation offset by immaterial other expense increases. The increase in R&D expenses during the September 2017 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was mainly due to increases of $24 million in employee compensation from higher headcount, $12 million in supplies, $2 million in depreciation and amortization, and $2 million of employee-related costs, offset by a $3 million decrease in costs associated with a campus consolidation realized in September 2016. Selling, General, and Administrative Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general, and administrative $ 181,043 $ 175,310 $ 165,010 Percent of total revenue 7.3 % 7.5 % 10.1 % The increase in selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses during the September 2017 quarter compared to the June 2017 quarter was primarily due to increases of $3 million in facilities cost, $2 million increase in depreciation and amortization, $2 million increases in outside services, $1 million increase in Coventor acquisition-related costs offset by a $4 million reduction in business process reengineering costs. The increase in SG&A expenses during the September 2017 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to increases of $8 million in employee compensation from higher headcount, and $5 million outside services. 28 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consisted of the following: Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 (in thousands) Interest income $ 20,209 $ 17,805 $ 12,763 Interest expense (23,905 ) (24,912 ) (41,429 ) Gains on deferred compensation plan related assets, net 3,453 5,749 6,172 Foreign exchange (losses) gains, net (3,000 ) (3,479 ) 1,219 Other, net (2,259 ) 393 (1,879 ) $ (5,502 ) $ (4,444 ) $ (23,154 ) Interest income increased in the September 2017 quarter compared to the June 2017 quarter as a result of higher cash and investment balances, longer portfolio duration, and higher yield. Interest income increased in the September 2017 quarter compared to the September 2016 quarter as a result of an increase in yield. Interest expense decreased in the September 2017 quarter compared to the June 2017 quarter due to the conversions of the 2018 and 2041 Convertible Notes. Interest expense decreased in the September 2017 quarter compared to the September 2016 quarter due to the termination of the Term Loan Agreement and mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes due 2023 and 2026 during the December 2016 quarter. Changes in the market value of securities in the portfolio drove the noted variability in the gains/losses on assets related to obligations under our deferred compensation plan. Foreign exchange losses in the September 2017 quarter were lower in comparison to losses in the June 2017 quarter but were higher in comparison to gains in the September 2016 quarter due to unfavorable currency movements against our unhedged balance sheet exposures. Other, net was higher during the September 2017 quarter, compared to the June 2017 quarter, primarily due to net losses on equity investments and increased charitable contributions. Income Tax Expense Our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate for the periods indicated were as follows: Three Months Ended September 24, 2017 June 25, 2017 September 25, 2016 (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 97,030 $ 77,071 $ 28,958 Effective tax rate 14.1 % 12.8 % 9.9 % The increase in the effective tax rate for the September 2017 quarter compared to the June 2017 quarter was due to the change in level and proportion of income in higher and lower tax jurisdictions and recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits from lapse of statutes of limitation in the June 2017 quarter. The increase in the effective tax rate for the September 2017 quarter compared to the September 2016 quarter was primarily due to the change in level and proportion of income in higher and lower tax jurisdictions and an increase in deferred tax accrual related to increase in foreign earnings to be repatriated in the September 2017 quarter. International revenues account for a significant portion of our total revenues, such that a material portion of our pre-tax income is earned and taxed outside the United States at rates that are generally lower than in the United States. Please refer to Note 6 of the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2017 Form 10-K for additional information. 29 Table of Contents Uncertain Tax Positions We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and/or subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our critical accounting estimates include: the recognition and valuation of revenue from multiple-element arrangements, which impacts revenue; the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin; the valuation of warranty reserves, which impacts gross margin; the valuation of equity-based compensation expense, including forfeiture estimates, which impacts both gross margin and operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions, which impact our provision for income tax expenses; and the valuation and recoverability of long-lived assets, which impacts gross margin and operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation or amortization. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements regarding the critical accounting estimates indicated above. Revenue Recognition: We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, and we have received customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. If the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue when it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed-to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, we recognize revenue upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. We allocate revenue from multiple-element arrangements among the separate elements using their relative selling prices, based on our best estimate of selling price. Our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return. The maximum revenue recognized on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. We generally recognize revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits upon shipment. We generally recognize revenue related to services upon completion of the services requested by a customer order. We recognize revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. When goods or services have been delivered to the customer, but all conditions for revenue recognition have not been met, deferred revenue and deferred costs are recorded in deferred profit on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Inventory Valuation: Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirement is written down to its estimated net realizable value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include but are not limited to managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and/or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of goods sold in the period in which we make the revision. 30 Table of Contents Warranty: We record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system when we recognize revenue. We periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. Equity-based Compensation: Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and Employee Stock Plans: We determine the fair value of our restricted stock units (RSUs), excluding market-based performance RSUs, based upon the fair market value of our Common Stock at the date of grant, discounted for dividends. We estimate the fair value of our market-based performance RSUs using a Monte Carlo simulation model at the date of the grant. We estimate the fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. We amortize the fair value of equity-based awards over the vesting periods of the award and we have elected to use the straight-line method of amortization. We estimate expected equity award forfeitures based on historical forfeiture rate activity and expected future employee turnover. We recognize the effect of adjustments made to the forfeiture rate, if any in the period that we change the forfeiture estimate. Income Taxes: Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Long-lived assets: We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we will perform an impairment test at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to the reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in-process R&D and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. In our goodwill impairment process we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. We do not calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless we determine, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the reporting units fair value is less than its carrying amount. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using an income approach. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. 31 Table of Contents As a result, several factors could result in an impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including but not limited to: (1) weakening of the global economy, weakness in the semiconductor equipment industry, or our failure to reach internal forecasts, which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated discounted cash flow value of our reporting units; and (2) a decline in our Common Stock price and resulting market capitalization, to the extent we determine that the decline is sustained and indicates a reduction in the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. Further, the value assigned to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and lifecycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. For other long-lived assets, we routinely consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets is less than their carrying value. If the sum is less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. We recognize an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the assets carrying value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the assets new carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 2, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part 1 of this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Total gross cash and cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments (together comprising total cash and investments) were $6.4 billion at September 24, 2017 compared to $6.3 billion as of June 25, 2017 . Approximately $5.4 billion and $4.8 billion of our total cash and investments as of September 24, 2017 , and June 25, 2017 , respectively, was held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, the majority of which is held in U.S. dollars and substantially all of which would be subject to tax at U.S. rates if it were to be repatriated. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $858.3 million during the three months ended September 24, 2017 , consisted of (in millions): Net income $ 590.7 Non-cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 79.1 Equity-based compensation 41.8 Deferred income taxes 43.2 Amortization of note discounts and issuance costs 4.6 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts 92.3 Other 6.6 $ 858.3 Significant changes in operating asset and liability accounts, net of foreign exchange impact, included the following uses of cash: increases in inventories of $107.1 million, and prepaid expense and other assets of $44.9 million and decreases in trade accounts payable of $13.2 million and deferred profit of $9.8 million. The uses of cash are offset by sources of cash resulting from decreases in accounts receivable of $145.0 million, and increases in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $122.3 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities during the three months ended September 24, 2017 , was $303.9 million , primarily consisting of net purchases of available-for-sale securities of $117.8 million , business acquisition of $115.6 million , and capital expenditures of $60.1 million . 32 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during the three months ended September 24, 2017 , was $528.8 million , primarily consisting of $301.7 million of cash paid for debt extinguishment, $155.4 million in treasury stock repurchases, $72.7 million of dividends paid, partially offset by $1.0 million of stock issuance and treasury stock reissuances associated with our employee stock-based compensation plans. Liquidity Given that the semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and has historically experienced rapid changes in demand, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Anticipated cash flows from operations based on our current business outlook, combined with our current levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of September 24, 2017 , are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, capital expenditures, capital redistributions, and dividends through at least the next 12 months. However, uncertainty in the global economy and the semiconductor industry, as well as disruptions in credit markets, have in the past, and could in the future, impact customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. Under certain circumstances, our Convertible Notes may be converted into shares of our Common Stock. During the quarter ended September 24, 2017 , approximately $301.7 million principle value of Convertible Notes were converted. We anticipate that conversions may continue in the coming quarters as the 2018 Notes approach maturity. We expect to have sufficient levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments to fund the near-term settlement of these Convertible Notes. On October 13, 2017, we entered into Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the 2nd Amendment), among the Company, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, which amends the Companys Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd Amendment, the Amended Credit Agreement). Among other things, the Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million increase to the Companys revolving credit facility, from $750 million under the Credit Agreement to $1.25 billion under the Amended Credit Agreement. The Amended Credit Agreement also modifies the date of maturity of the revolving credit facility from November 10, 2020 to October 13, 2022. The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. Other than as disclosed in this paragraph, the material terms of the Amended Credit Agreement are substantially the same as the Credit Agreement. In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While we have substantial cash balances in the United States and offshore, we may require additional funding and need or choose to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.