ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this report are specifically identified as forward-looking, by use of phrases and words such as we believe, we anticipate, we expect, may, should, could and other future-oriented terms. The identification of certain statements as forward-looking is not intended to mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to: trends in the global economic environment and the semiconductor industry; the anticipated levels of, and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, revenue and operating expenses generally; volatility in our quarterly results; customer requirements and our ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for our products; our ability to defend our market share and to gain new market share; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer-fabrication equipment and our growth relative to such growth; levels of research and development (R&D) expenditures; the estimates we make, and the accruals we record, in order to implement our critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax liabilities and the adequacy of our accruals relating to them); our access to capital markets; our ability to manage and grow our cash position; and the sufficiency of our financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to operations, investments, debt service requirements and capital expenditures). Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect, including without limitation those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors within Part II Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 26, 2011, our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2011, and our current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value, and effect could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this report and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We undertake no obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. Documents To Review In Connection With Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations For a full understanding of our financial position and results of operations for the three and six months ended December 25, 2011, and the related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, you should also read the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes presented in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes in our 2011 Form 10-K. Overview Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations consists of the following sections: Executive Summary provides an overview of the Companys operations and a summary of certain highlights of our results of operations Results of Operations provides an analysis of operating results Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates discusses accounting policies that reflect the more significant judgments and estimates we use to prepare our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Liquidity and Capital Resources provides an analysis of cash flows, contractual obligations and financial position EXECUTIVE SUMMARY We design, manufacture, market, refurbish, and service semiconductor processing equipment used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and are recognized as a major provider of such equipment to the worldwide semiconductor industry. Our customers include semiconductor manufacturers that make DRAM, flash memory, and logic integrated circuits for a wide range of consumer and industrial electronics. Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process and preparation steps that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits. We leverage our expertise in the areas of etch and single-wafer clean processing to develop technology and productivity solutions that typically benefit our customers through lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and/or reduced cost as well as by facilitating their ability to meet more stringent performance and design standards. The semiconductor capital equipment industry is cyclical in nature and has historically experienced periodic and pronounced changes in customer demand resulting in industry downturns and upturns. Todays leading indicators of change in customer investment patterns, such as electronics demand, memory pricing, and foundry utilization rates, may not be any more reliable than in prior years. Demand for our equipment can vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), supply, demand, prices for semiconductors, customer capacity requirements, and our ability to develop, acquire, and market competitive products. For these and other reasons, our results of operations during any particular fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. 27 Table of Contents Demand for our products declined in the second half of calendar year 2011 as semiconductor device manufacturers slowed the pace of their capacity expansions in response to continued macroeconomic conditions. In spite of the slowing pace of capacity expansion, our customers continued to invest in leading edge technologies over this period. Our financial results in the December quarter were consistent with communicated expectations, supported by these leading edge capacity shipments across all market segments. Throughout calendar year 2011, we continued to execute on our long-term growth strategy by investing in the technology and productivity solutions that address our customers most critical needs. In addition, as announced in December, we plan to extend our product and services portfolio and leadership in wafer fabrication equipment via the acquisition of Novellus Systems, Inc. We believe that the complementary market positions, technologies, product capabilities and leadership of both companies will provide more comprehensive and faster solutions to our customers and provide improved financial performance for our shareholders. Historically, any change in demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment occurs at an uneven pace and forecasts about demand for wafer fabrication equipment in the near term are subject to uncertainty. Additionally, todays macroeconomic environment adds further overall levels of uncertainty. As a result, we could experience significant volatility in our quarterly results of operations during the next several quarters. The following table summarizes certain key financial information for the periods indicated below (in thousands, except percentage and per share data): Three Months Ended December 25, 2011 September 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 Revenue $ 583,981 $ 680,436 $ 870,714 Gross margin $ 234,826 $ 283,883 $ 407,433 Gross margin as a percent of revenue 40.2 % 41.7 % 46.8 % Total operating expenses $ 187,280 $ 184,484 $ 166,329 Net income $ 33,212 $ 71,838 $ 221,856 Diluted net income per share $ 0.27 $ 0.58 $ 1.78 In the quarter ended December 25, 2011, revenue decreased as compared to the quarter ended September 25, 2011, primarily reflecting the timing of customers investments for capacity. Gross margin as a percent of revenues decreased in the December 2011 quarter as compared to the September 2011 quarter due to lower factory and field utilization rates correlated to the lower revenue levels and product mix. Operating expenses in the December 2011 quarter increased as compared to the quarter ended September 2011. This change in operating expenses is related to outside service costs associated with the Novellus acquisition and R&D related activities and reflects our ongoing commitment to long-term R&D in existing businesses. Our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances totaled approximately $2.4 billion as of December 25, 2011 compared to $2.2 billion as of September 25, 2011. Cash generated by operations was approximately $169 million during the December 2011 quarter. We used cash during the December 2011 quarter to purchase $27 million of property and equipment and repurchase $21 million of our shares including net share settlements, and we received cash of $51 million as the result of the cash settlement under a structured stock repurchase program. Employee headcount increased to approximately 3,850 as of December 25, 2011, from approximately 3,750 as of September 25, 2011. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Shipments Three Months Ended December 25, 2011 September 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 Shipments (in millions) $ 563 $ 580 $ 892 North America 19 % 22 % 11 % Europe 8 % 10 % 13 % Japan 10 % 16 % 10 % Korea 37 % 27 % 18 % Taiwan 18 % 10 % 29 % Asia Pacific 8 % 15 % 19 % 28 Table of Contents Shipments for the December 2011 quarter decreased 3% compared to the September 2011 quarter and 37% year over year. During the December 2011 quarter, applications at or below the 45 nanometer technology node were 90% of total systems shipments. The system shipments in the memory, foundry, and logic/integrated device manufacturing markets were approximately 42%, 46% and 12%, respectively. Starting with the December 2011 quarter we have modified the foundry category to include manufacturers that have a majority of their logic capacity available for the foundry business. These shipments were previously reported in the logic/integrated device manufacturing category. Revenue Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 25, 2011 September 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 December 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 Revenue (in millions) $ 584 $ 680 $ 871 $ 1,264 $ 1,677 North America 18 % 19 % 6 % 19 % 6 % Europe 9 % 11 % 13 % 10 % 12 % Japan 14 % 18 % 11 % 16 % 11 % Korea 34 % 25 % 18 % 29 % 27 % Taiwan 17 % 13 % 38 % 15 % 30 % Asia Pacific 8 % 14 % 14 % 11 % 14 % Revenue for the December 2011 quarter decreased 14% compared to the September 2011 quarter and 33% year over year. This decrease is related to the pace and timing of customer investments. The overall Asia region continues to account for a majority of our revenues as a substantial amount of the worldwide capacity additions for semiconductor manufacturing continues to occur in this region. Our deferred revenue balance increased to $192 million as of December 25, 2011 compared to $181 million as of September 25, 2011. Our deferred revenue balance does not include shipments to Japanese customers, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The anticipated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $16 million as of December 25, 2011 compared to $43 million as of September 25, 2011. Gross Margin Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 25, 2011 September 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 December 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross margin $ 234,826 $ 283,883 $ 407,433 $ 518,709 $ 784,759 Percent of revenue 40.2 % 41.7 % 46.8 % 41.0 % 46.8 % The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue during the three and six months ended December 2011 quarter as compared to the September 2011 quarter and same periods in the prior year is attributable to reduced factory and field utilization as a result of the decline in business volume and product mix. Research and Development Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 25, 2011 September 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 December 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development (R&D) $ 104,024 $ 102,559 $ 90,477 $ 206,583 $ 176,830 Percent of revenue 17.8 % 15.1 % 10.4 % 16.3 % 10.5 % We continue to make significant R&D investments focused on leading-edge plasma etch, single-wafer clean and other semiconductor manufacturing requirements. The increase in R&D expenses during the December 2011 quarter compared to the September 2011 quarter was primarily due to added headcount and increased outside services related to new product development, offset by a reduction in variable compensation due to a lower operating income level. The increase in R&D expenses during the December 2011 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to $9 million of higher outside services and supplies related to new product development and $5 million of increased salary and benefit costs related to higher headcount. The increase in R&D expense during the six months ended December 25, 2011 as compared to the same period prior year was due to approximately $20 million of higher outside services and supplies related to new product development. There was also $15 million of increased salary, benefit, and equity compensation costs related to higher headcount, offset by a $7 million reduction in variable compensation expense as a result of lower operating income levels. . 29 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 25, 2011 September 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 December 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) $ 83,256 $ 80,200 $ 75,852 $ 163,456 $ 147,994 Percent of revenue 14.3 % 11.8 % 8.7 % 12.9 % 8.8 % The increase in SG&A expense during the December 2011 quarter as compared to the September 2011 quarter was due to $7 million of outside services related to the Novellus acquisition offset by $4 million of decreased variable compensation expense, resulting from a lower level of operating income. The increase in SG&A expenses in the December 2011 quarter compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to a $7 million of increases in salary, benefits, and equity compensation related to higher headcount, $7 million of Novellus-related acquisition costs, and a $2 million increase in insurance and taxes, offset by $10 million lower variable compensation expense associated with lower company profitability. The increase in SG&A expense during the six months ended December 25, 2011 as compared to the same period prior year was due to higher headcount and increased marketing investments, offset by a lower level of variable compensation in the 2012 fiscal year. Restructuring and Asset Impairments During the three months ended December 25, 2011 the Company released $0.9 million related to a recorded obligation not realized for a previously restructured product line. During the three months ended September 25, 2011, the Company incurred asset impairment charges of $1.7 million related to a decline in the market value of certain facilities. During the six months ended December 26, 2010 the Company reversed $5.2 million in restructuring and asset impairment charges under the March 2009 Plan as a result of a decision to occupy previously restructured facilities. The following table summarizes charges and reversals under each of the plans described below for the three-month periods indicated: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 25, 2011 September 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 December 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 (in thousands) June 2008 Plan $ (859 ) $ $ $ (859 ) $ March 2009 Plan (5,163 ) Asset impairments outside of specific restructuring plans 1,725 1,725 Total restructuring and asset impairment charges $ (859 ) $ 1,725 $ $ 866 $ (5,163 ) For further details related to restructuring and asset impairment, see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted of the following: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended December 25, 2011 September 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 December 25, 2011 December 26, 2010 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 2,472 $ 2,589 $ 2,635 $ 5,061 $ 5,046 Interest expense (9,346 ) (9,260 ) (110 ) (18,606 ) (211 ) Gains (losses) on mutual funds (348 ) (1,865 ) 1,913 (2,213 ) 2,578 Foreign exchange gain (loss) (142 ) (1,090 ) (3,108 ) (1,232 ) (6,287 ) Other, net (421 ) (2,447 ) (292 ) (2,868 ) (1,067 ) $ (7,785 ) $ (12,073 ) $ 1,038 $ (19,858 ) $ 59 Interest expense increased in the three and six months ended December 25, 2011 as compared to the same periods in the prior year due interest expense related to the $900 million convertible notes issued May 2011. We recognized losses on our mutual funds, which are correlated to obligations under our deferred compensation plan, in the three and six months ended December 25, 2011 as compared to gains recognized in the three and six months ended December 26, 2010 due to changes in the market value of securities in this portfolio. 30 Table of Contents We recognized smaller losses as a result of changes in the value of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities net of hedging activities in the three and six months ended December 25, 2011 as compared to the three and six months ended December 26, 2010. Other expenses, net was higher during the three months ended September 25, 2011 as compared to the three months ended December 25, 2011 and December 26, 2010 primarily due to a $1.7 million other-than-temporary impairment of a strategic private equity investment recognized during the September 2011 quarter. The same impairment resulted in higher other expenses, net during the six months ended December 25, 2011 and compared to the same period prior year. Income Tax Expense Our effective tax rates for the three and six months ended December 25, 2011 were 16.5% and 17.3%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 26, 2010 were approximately 8.4% and 10.7%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 25, 2011compared to the three months ended December 26, 2010 was primarily due to the level of income, a decrease in the percentage of profits in jurisdictions with lower tax rates, and an increase in the non-deductible stock-based compensation. The increase in the effective tax rate for the six months ended December 25, 2011 compared to the six months ended December 26, 2010 was primarily due to the level of income, geographical mix of income, and an increase in the non-deductible stock-based compensation. The effective tax rate of 16.5% and 17.3% for the three and six months ended December 25, 2011 includes the tax impact of the following discrete items which are recorded in the period in which they occur: (1) a tax expense of $2.2 million and $3.8 million, respectively, related to the filing of prior year foreign tax returns, which resulted in provision to return true-ups, (2) a tax expense of $0.8 million and $1.7 million, respectively, of interest related to uncertain tax positions, (3) a tax benefit of $2.5 million and $3.7 million, respectively, related to the acquisition, restructuring and asset impairment related expenses, and (4) a tax benefit of $6.9 million and $7.1 million, respectively, related to the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and the reversal of the related interest accruals due to finalization of certain foreign uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rates of 8.4% and 10.7% for the three and six months ended December 26, 2010, respectively, included the tax impact of the following discrete items which are recorded in the period in which they occur: (1) a tax expense of $1.0 million and $2.0 million, respectively, of interest related to uncertain tax positions, (2) a tax benefit of $4.8 million in both periods related to the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research and development credit for part of fiscal year 2010, (3) a tax benefit of $3.0 million and $3.2 million, respectively, due to the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits and the reversal of the related interest accruals due to finalization of certain foreign tax positions, and (4) a tax expense of zero and $2.1 million, respectively, related to the reversal of accrued restructuring expenses. Deferred Income Taxes We had gross deferred tax assets, related primarily to reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible and tax credit carryforwards, of $147.6 million and $147.2 million as of December 25, 2011 and June 26, 2011, respectively. The gross deferred tax assets were offset by deferred tax liabilities of $31.7 million and a valuation allowance of $46.2 million as of December 25, 2011 and June 26, 2011. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more-likely-than-not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly and will continue to assess the need for changes in valuation allowances, if any. Uncertain Tax Positions We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and/or subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates we use in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition: We recognize all revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, and we have received customer acceptance, completed our system installation obligations, or are otherwise released from our installation or customer acceptance obligations. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. If the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue when it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed-to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, we recognize revenue upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. We allocate revenue from multiple-element arrangements among the separate elements based on their relative selling prices, provided the elements have value on a stand-alone basis. Our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return. The maximum revenue we recognize on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. We generally recognize revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits upon shipment. We generally recognize revenue related to services as services are performed. We recognize revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. When goods or services have been delivered to the customer but all conditions for revenue recognition have not been met, we record deferred revenue and/or deferred costs of sales in deferred profit on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Inventory Valuation: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using standard costs that generally approximate actual costs on a first-in, first-out basis. We maintain a perpetual inventory system and continuously record the quantity on-hand and standard cost for each product, including purchased components, subassemblies, and finished goods. We maintain the integrity of perpetual inventory records through periodic physical counts of quantities on hand. Finished goods are reported as inventories until the point of title transfer to the customer. Generally, title transfer is documented in the terms of sale. Unless specified in the terms of sale, title generally transfers when we complete physical transfer of the products to the freight carrier. Transfer of title for shipments to Japanese customers generally occurs at the time of customer acceptance. We eliminate all intercompany profits related to the sales and purchases of inventory between our legal entities from our Consolidated Financial Statements. Management evaluates the need to record adjustments for impairment of inventory at least quarterly. Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirements over the next 12 to 36 months is written down to its estimated market value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include, but are not limited to, managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and/or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of goods sold in the period in which we make the revision. Warranty: Typically, the sale of semiconductor capital equipment includes providing parts and service warranty to customers as part of the overall price of the system. We provide standard warranties for our systems. When appropriate, we record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system when we recognize revenue. We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. The amount recorded is based on an analysis of historical activity that uses factors such as type of system, customer, geographic region, and any known factors such as tool reliability trends. All actual or estimated parts and labor costs incurred in subsequent periods are charged to those established reserves on a system-by-system basis. Actual warranty expenses are accounted for on a system-by-system basis and may differ from our original estimates. While we periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. In addition to the provision of standard warranties, we offer customer-paid extended warranty services. Revenues for extended maintenance and warranty services with a fixed payment amount are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Related costs are recorded as incurred. Equity-based Compensation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and Employee Stock Plans: GAAP requires us to recognize the fair value of equity-based compensation in net income. We determine the fair value of our restricted stock units (RSUs) based upon the fair market value of Company stock at the date of grant. We estimate the fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. This model requires us to input highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. We amortize the fair value of equity-based awards over the vesting periods of the awards, and we have elected to use the straight-line method of amortization. We make quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our tax credit pool related to equity-based compensation to determine if there are any deficiencies that we are required to recognize in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We will only recognize a benefit from stock-based compensation in paid-in-capital if we realize an incremental tax benefit after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit through the income 32 Table of Contents statement (continuing operations) rather than through paid-in-capital. We have also elected to net deferred tax assets and the associated valuation allowance related to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for the accumulated stock award tax benefits for income tax footnote disclosure purposes. We will track these stock award attributes separately and will only recognize these attributes through paid-in-capital. Income Taxes : Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more-likely-than-not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at the time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that can differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. These estimates and assumptions occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions, and in the calculation and valuation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from temporary differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as the interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Adjustments based on filed returns are recorded when identified. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Please refer to Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process prescribed within the interpretation. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period such determination is made. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: Goodwill represents the amount by which the purchase price in each business combination exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. We allocate the carrying value of goodwill to our reporting units. We test goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment at least annually. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives, and we review for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the intangible asset may not be recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we would perform an impairment test of goodwill at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to our reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units, as some of the assets and liabilities related to those reporting units are not held by those reporting units but by a corporate function. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we are required to assess long-lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in-process R&D and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using a weighted combination of both a market and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the most indicative of fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market approach, we use information regarding the reporting unit as well as publicly available industry information to determine various financial multiples to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit for the purposes of our annual or periodic analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. We also consider our market capitalization and that of our competitors on the date we perform the analysis. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. 33 Table of Contents As a result, several factors could result in impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including, but not limited to: (1) weakening of the global economy, weakness in the semiconductor equipment industry, or failure of the Company to reach its internal forecasts, which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated discounted cash flow value of our reporting units; and (2) a decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization, if we determine that the decline is sustained and indicates a reduction in the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. In addition, the value we assign to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on our estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from our estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2011, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance that increases the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income (OCI) by eliminating the option to present components of OCI as part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity. The amendments in this standard require that all non-owner changes in stockholders equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under either method, adjustments must be displayed for items that are reclassified from OCI to net income in the financial statements where the components of net income and the components of OCI are presented. This guidance does not affect the underlying accounting for components of OCI, but will change the presentation of our financial statements. We will adopt this authoritative guidance retrospectively in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2013. In September 2011, the FASB issued revised guidance intended to simplify how an entity tests goodwill for impairment. The amendment will allow an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. This accounting standard update will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating this accounting standard update and do not expect it to have an impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 25, 2011, we had $2.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments (total cash and investments) compared to $2.3 billion as of June 26, 2011. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $255.9 million during the six months ended December 25, 2011 consisted of (in millions): Net income $ 105.1 Non-cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 43.7 Equity-based compensation 36.0 Restructuring and impairment charges 0.9 Amortization of convertible note discount 13.3 Impairment of investment 1.7 Loss on equity method investment 0.2 Net tax benefit on equity-based compensation plans (1.0 ) Deferred income taxes (0.6 ) Changes in operating asset and liability accounts 54.5 Other 2.1 $ 255.9 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts, net of foreign exchange impact, included the following sources of cash: decreases in accounts receivable of $127.7 million, inventories of $23.3 million, and prepaid and other assets of $12.9 million, partially offset by the following uses of cash: decreases in accounts payable of $55.4 million, deferred profit of $36.4 million, and accrued liabilities of $17.6 million. These changes in overall cash were all consistent with decreased business volumes. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities during the six months ended December 25, 2011 was $131.5 million, primarily consisting of net purchases of available-for-sale securities of $89.5 million, capital expenditures of $42.4 million, and the purchase of other investments of $10.7 million, partially offset by the receipt of an $8.4 million loan payment. 34 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during the six months ended December 25, 2011 was $107.3 million, primarily consisting of $92.7 million in treasury stock repurchases and $24.0 million net prepayments for the potential purchase of treasury stock under the structured stock repurchase arrangement (see Note 17 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by net proceeds from issuance of common stock related to employee equity-based plans of $10.0 million. Liquidity Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Based upon our current business outlook, we expect that our levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at December 25, 2011 will be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures, through at least the next 12 months. In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products and services. While the company has substantial cash balances in the United States and offshore, we may require additional funding and need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, if necessary, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We have certain obligations to make future payments under various contracts, some of which are recorded on our balance sheet and some of which are not. Obligations are recorded on our balance sheet in accordance with GAAP and include our long-term debt and capital leases which are outlined in the following table and noted below. Our off-balance sheet arrangements include contractual relationships and are presented as operating leases and purchase obligations in the table below. Our contractual cash obligations and commitments as of December 25, 2011, relating to these agreements are included in the following table. The amounts in the table below exclude $115.6 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax benefits as we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or time of settlement. Operating Leases Capital Leases Purchase Obligations Long-term Debt and Interest Expense Total (in thousands) Payments due by period: Less than 1 year $ 11,035 $ 1,755 $ 170,735 $ 9,226 $ 192,751 1-3 years 14,415 3,040 59,690 15,750 92,895 3-5 years 3,420 11,083 28,840 464,906 508,249 Over 5 years 26 700 459,141 459,867 Total $ 28,896 $ 15,878 $ 259,965 $ 949,023 $ 1,253,762 Operating Leases We lease most of our administrative, R&D and manufacturing facilities, regional sales/service offices and certain equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. Certain of our facility leases for buildings located at our Fremont, California headquarters, Livermore facilities, and certain other facility leases provide us with an option to extend the leases for additional periods or to purchase the facilities. Certain of our facility leases provide for periodic rent increases based on the general rate of inflation. In addition to amounts included in the table above, we have guaranteed residual values for certain of our Fremont and Livermore facility leases of up to $164.9 million. See Note 14 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Capital Leases Capital leases reflect building and office equipment lease obligations. The amounts in the table above include the interest portion of payment obligations. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations consist of significant contractual obligations either on an annual basis or over multi-year periods related to our outsourcing activities or other material commitments, including vendor-consigned inventories. We continue to enter into new agreements and maintain existing agreements to outsource certain activities, including elements of our manufacturing, warehousing, logistics, facilities maintenance, certain information technology functions, and certain transactional general and administrative functions. The contractual cash obligations and commitments table presented above contains our obligations at December 25, 2011 under these arrangements and others. Actual expenditures will vary based on the volume of transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition to these obligations, certain of these agreements include early termination provisions and/or cancellation penalties which could increase or decrease amounts actually paid. 35 Table of Contents Long-Term Debt On May 11, 2011, we issued and sold $450.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.5% convertible notes due 2016 (the 2016 Notes) and $450.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible notes due 2018 (the 2018 Notes, and collectively with the 2016 Notes, the Notes). The 2016 Notes were issued at par and pay interest at a rate of 0.5% per annum and the 2018 Notes were issued at par and pay interest at rate of 1.25% per annum. The Notes may be converted into our common stock, under certain circumstances, based on an initial conversion rate of 15.8687 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, which is equal to a conversion price of approximately $63.02 per share of our common stock. The conversion price will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. Concurrently with the issuance of the Notes, we purchased convertible note hedges for $181.1 million and sold warrants for $133.8 million. The separate convertible note hedges and warrant transactions are structured to reduce the potential future economic dilution associated with the conversion of the Notes. In addition to the convertible notes, our remaining total long-term debt, excluding interest, of $1.3 million as of December 25, 2011 consists of various bank loans and government subsidized technology loans supporting operating needs. Other Guarantees We have issued certain indemnifications to our lessors for taxes and general liability under some of our agreements. We have entered into certain insurance contracts that may limit our exposure to such indemnifications. As of December 25, 2011, we had not recorded any liability on our Consolidated Financial Statements in connection with these indemnifications, as we do not believe, based on information available, that it is probable that we will pay any amounts under these guarantees. Generally, we indemnify, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, our customers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by our products or services. We seek to limit our liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations. We do not believe, based on information available, that it is probable that we will pay any material amounts under these guarantees. Warranties We offer standard warranties on our systems. The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements.