Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2020, or this Report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations and reflect our plans, estimates and anticipated future financial performance. See the section of this Report entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for additional information. These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth in Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report. Overview Lantronix, Inc., which we refer to herein as the Company, Lantronix, we, our, or us, is a global provider of secure data access and management solutions for Internet of Things (IoT) assets. Our mission is to be the leading supplier of IoT and related Information Technology (IT) management solutions that enable companies to dramatically simplify the creation, deployment, and management of IoT projects while providing secure access to data for applications and people. We conduct our business globally and manage our sales teams by three geographic regions: the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific Japan (APJ). Products and Solutions Overview We organize our products and solutions into three product lines: IoT, IT Management and Other. IoT Our IoT products typically connect to one or more existing machines or are built into new industrial devices to provide network connectivity. Our products are designed to enhance the value and utility of machines by making the data from the machines available to users, systems and processes or by controlling their properties and features over the network. Our IoT products currently consist of IoT Gateways and IoT Building Blocks. IoT Gateways are designed to provide secure connectivity and the ability to add integrated device management and advanced data access features. IoT Building Blocks provide basic secure machine connectivity and unmanaged data access. Our IoT products may be embedded into new designs or attached to existing machines. Our IoT products include wired and wireless connections that enhance the value and utility of modern electronic systems and equipment by providing secure network connectivity, application hosting, protocol conversion, secure access for distributed IoT deployments and many other functions. Many of the products are offered with software tools intended to further accelerate our customers time-to-market and increase their value add. Most of our IoT products are pre-certified in a number of countries thereby significantly reducing our original equipment manufacturer customers regulatory certification costs and accelerating their time to market. The following product families are included in our IoT product line: EDS, EDS-MD, PremierWave EN, PremierWave XC, SGX , UDS, WiPort , xDirect , xPico , xPico Wi-Fi, xPico 200, xPress , XPort , XPort Pro, XPort Edge, Micro, and MACH10 Global Device Manager. 26 On July 5, 2019 we acquired Maestro Wireless Solutions Limited and its subsidiaries (together, Maestro). The acquisition provides additional and complementary cellular connectivity, LPWAN, and telematic technologies and devices to our portfolio of IoT solutions. The following product families are now included in our IoT product line as a result of the acquisition: M110, E210, E220, Bolero45, FOX3-2G, FOX3-3G, FOX3-4G, S40, and D2Sphere. On January 16, 2020 we acquired Intrinsyc Technologies Corporation (Intrinsyc). The acquisition provides additional and complementary IoT computing and embedded product development capabilities and expands our IoT market opportunity. Additionally, we acquired edge computing and design capabilities crucial to the development of intelligent IoT solutions. As a result of the acquisition, we now offer the following in our IoT product line: System on Module (SoM), Single Board Computer (SBC), and Development Kits. We also offer services for mechanical, hardware, and software engineering for camera, audio, and artificial intelligence / machine learning development. IT Management Today, organizations are managing an ever-increasing number of devices and data on enterprise networks where 24/7 reliability is mission critical. Out-of-band management is a technique that uses a dedicated management network to access critical network devices to ensure management connectivity (including the ability to determine the status of any network component) independent of the status of other in-band network components. Remote out-of-band access allows organizations to effectively manage their enterprise IT resources and at the same time, optimize their IT support resources. Our vSLM, a virtualized central management software solution, simplifies secure administration of our IT Management products and the equipment attached to them through a standard web browser. Our IT Management product line includes out-of-band management, console management, power management, and keyboard-video-mouse (commonly referred to as KVM) products that provide remote access to IT and networking infrastructure deployed in test labs, data centers, branch offices and server rooms. The following product families are included in our IT Management product line: SLB , SLC 8000, Spider , ConsoleFlow and vSLM. Other We categorize products that are non-focus or end-of-life as Other. Our Other product line includes non-focus products such as the xPrintServer . In addition, this product line includes end-of-life versions of our MatchPort , SLC , SLP , xPress Pro, xSenso , PremierWave XN, and WiBox product families. Recent Developments Refer to Note 2 of Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of our acquisitions of Maestro and Intrinsyc. Following their acquisitions, Maestro and Intrinsyc have contributed significant revenue to the Company. We also saw a corresponding increase in operational expenses, which will remain consistent until we realize expected cost synergies. Furthermore, we expect that the combined entity will have better economies of scale driven by our plan to reduce redundant costs which we believe will result in improved operational effectiveness and greater earnings potential. 27 Impact of COVID-19 In order to protect our employee population and comply with local directives, most of our employees transitioned to remote working arrangements commencing in March and still continuing through the date hereof. To facilitate the increased data traffic associated with remote access, we have upgraded some of our information technology systems. We have also made changes relating to videoconferencing by providing most of our employees with a new videoconferencing and collaboration platform to accommodate better remote collaboration and communication. To date, remote working has not had a significant adverse impact on our financial results or our operations, including, financial reporting and disclosure