Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2020, or this Report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations and reflect our plans, estimates and anticipated future financial performance. See the section of this Report entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for additional information. These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth in Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report. Overview Lantronix, Inc., which we refer to herein as the Company, Lantronix, we, our, or us, is a global provider of software as a service (SaaS), engineering services, and hardware for Edge Computing, the Internet of Things (IoT), and Remote Environment Management (REM). We enable our customers to provide reliable and secure solutions while accelerating their time to market. Our products and services dramatically simplify operations through the creation, development, deployment, and management of customer projects at scale while providing quality, reliability and security. We conduct our business globally and manage our sales teams by three geographic regions: the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific Japan (APJ). Products and Solutions Overview We organize our products and solutions into three product lines: IoT, REM and Other. IoT IoT Connectivity Our IoT connectivity products typically connect to one or more existing machines or are built into new industrial devices to provide network connectivity. Our products are designed to enhance the value and utility of machines by making the data from the machines available to users, systems and processes or by controlling their properties and features over the network. Our IoT connectivity products may be embedded into new designs or attached to existing machines. These products include wired and wireless connections that enhance the value and utility of modern electronic systems and equipment by providing secure network connectivity, application hosting, protocol conversion, secure access for distributed IoT deployments and many other functions. Many of the products are offered with software tools intended to further accelerate our customers time-to-market and increase their value add. Most of our IoT connectivity products are pre-certified in a number of countries thereby significantly reducing our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers regulatory certification costs and accelerating their time to market. IoT Compute Our IoT compute products typically are embedded into a customer product, enabling advanced application functionality at the edge. Our products are designed to deliver advanced functionality and reduce time to market by leveraging our engineering expertise, engineering services, manufacturing experience, and strategic System on Chip (SoC) partners. Our compute products are normally embedded into new designs. These products include application processing that delivers compute to meet customer needs for data transformation, computer vision, machine learning, augmented / virtual reality, audio / video aggregation and distribution, and custom applications at the edge. Many of the products are offered with software tools intended to further accelerate our customers time-to-market and increase their value add. Most of our IoT compute products are pre-certified in a number of countries thereby significantly reducing our OEM customers regulatory certification costs and accelerating their time to market. 20 IoT Telematics Our IoT telematics products are typically integrated into an OEMs or System Integrators (SI) products. Our smart tracking devices are designed to deliver robust data logging and positional tracking functionality and reliability for supply chain and logistics solutions. Our telematics devices are designed to be flexible in the field and offer a variety of connectivity options to suit the customers needs across 2G, 3G, 4G, and LTE cellular networks. These power efficient products are designed to support communications across interfaces and industrial protocols for vehicle, fleet, and asset tracking and management. Many of the products are offered with software tools intended to further accelerate our customers time-to-market and increase their value add. Most of our IoT Telematics products are pre-certified in a number of countries thereby significantly reducing our OEM customers regulatory certification costs and accelerating their time to market. Engineering Services We leverage our engineering expertise and product development best practices to deliver high quality, innovative products, cost-effectively and on time. Our engineering services flexible business model allows for choosing turnkey product development or team augmentation for accelerating complex areas of product development such as; camera development and tuning, voice control, machine learning, artificial intelligence, computer vision, augmented / virtual reality, mechanical and radio-frequency design, thermal and power optimization, or in any specific area a customer needs assistance. In addition to our production-ready edge computing solutions, we offer experienced multidisciplinary engineering services across complete aspects of IoT product development, including hardware engineering, software engineering, mechanical engineering, rapid prototyping, and quality assurance. Software as a Service Our SaaS platform provides single pane of glass management for IoT deployments. Our platform enables customers to easily deploy, monitor, manage, and automate across their global deployments, all from a single platform login. OEMs and SIs can leverage its multitenancy functionality for supporting a wide customer base while ensuring customer separation. Over the Air (OTA) updates make it easy to ensure the latest security patches, firmware, and configurations are deployed and functional. The following product families are included in our IoT product line: EDS, EDS-MD, PremierWave EN, PremierWave XC, SGX, UDS, WiPort, xDirect, xPico, xPico Wi-Fi, xPress, XPort, XPort Pro, MicroM110, E210, E220, Bolero45, FOX3-2G, FOX3-3G, FOX3-4G, S40, and D2Sphere. In addition, we offer System on Module (SoM), Single Board Computer (SBC), and Development Kits. We also offer services for mechanical, hardware, and software engineering for camera, audio, and artificial intelligence / machine learning development. REM Today, organizations are managing an ever-increasing number of devices and data on enterprise networks where 24/7 reliability is mission critical. Remote environment management allows for full comprehension and control of an IT deployment, across a range of sensors data (temperature, humidity, light, acceleration, open / close, etc.) providing status and alerting, automation, and remote control of devices and end stations. REM designs may be part of an out of band (OOB) or in band network design. OOB is a technique that uses a dedicated management network to access critical infrastructure components to ensure production independent management connectivity. REM allows organizations to effectively monitor, manage, and control their enterprise IT equipment and facilities (environments), either in or out of band, optimizing their IT support resources. 21 Our SaaS platform provides single pane of glass management for REM (and IoT) deployments. Our platform enables customers to easily deploy, monitor, manage, and automate across their global deployments, all from a single platform login, virtually connected as though directly on each device. Our platform eliminates the need to have 24/7 personnel on site, and makes it easy to see and drill into an issue quickly, even in large scale deployments. Our REM product line includes out-of-band management, console management, power management, and IP connected keyboard-video-mouse (commonly referred to as IPKVM) products that provide remote access to IT and networking infrastructure deployed in test labs, data centers, branch offices, remote sites, and server rooms. The following product families are included in our REM product line: SLB , SLC 8000, Spider , ConsoleFlow, and EMG 8500. Other We categorize products that are non-focus or end-of-life as Other. Our Other product line includes non-focus products such as the xPrintServer . In addition, this product line includes end-of-life versions of our MatchPort , SLC , SLP , xPress Pro, xSenso , PremierWave XN, and WiBox product families. Recent Developments COVID-19 Update In response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken measures to protect our employee population and comply with local directives. Most of our employees transitioned to remote working arrangements commencing in March 2020, which are continuing through the date hereof. We continue to monitor the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, as well as our customers and suppliers businesses. Our efforts to support customer engagement through industry events, trade shows and business travel also continue to be negatively affected. Prolonged shutdowns, or additional future shutdowns and other restrictions instituted by federal, state and local governments, will likely lead to a reduction in revenue during the coming quarters. To mitigate potential revenue declines, we continue to adjust our go-to-market approach by adding more distributors and value-added resellers, who are closer to the customers and end-customers. Our supply chain still faces challenges, as most of our manufacturing is performed in Malaysia, Thailand and China. Our contract manufacturers may experience capacity shortages if future shutdowns are implemented, although as of the date of this Report we are not aware of any issues. Overall, in light of the changing nature and continuing uncertainty around the COVID-19 pandemic, our ability to predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business in future periods remains limited. The full effect of the pandemic on our business is unlikely to be fully realized, or reflected in our financial results, until future periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 22 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The accounting policies that have the greatest impact on our financial condition and results of operations and that require the most judgment are those relating to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, warranty reserves, restructuring charges, valuation of deferred income taxes, business combinations, goodwill and intangible assets and stock-based compensation. These policies are described in further detail in the Form 10-K and have not changed significantly during the three months ended September 30, 2020 as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Form 10-K. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Summary In the three months ended September 30, 2020, our net revenue increased by $4,405,000, or 34.6%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019. The increase in net revenue was driven by a 43.0% increase in net revenue in our IoT product line, as well as an increase of 4.4% in net revenues in our REM product line. We had a net loss of $302,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to a net loss of $2,470,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2019. The decrease in net loss was driven by a 33.0% increase in gross profit and a 2.1% decrease in operating expenses. Net Revenue The following tables present our net revenue by product line and by geographic region: Three Months Ended September 30, % of Net % of Net Change 2020 Revenue 2019 Revenue $ % (In thousands, except percentages) IoT $ 14,620 85.3% $ 10,221 80.2% $ 4,399 43.0% REM 2,402 14.0% 2,301 18.1% 101 4.4% Other 124 0.7% 219 1.7% (95 ) (43.4% ) $ 17,146 100.0% $ 12,741 100.0% $ 4,405 34.6% Three Months Ended September 30, % of Net % of Net Change 2020 Revenue 2019 Revenue $ % (In thousands, except percentages) Americas $ 10,929 63.7% $ 5,764 45.2% $ 5,165 89.6% EMEA 2,639 15.4% 4,521 35.5% (1,882 ) (41.6% ) Asia Pacific Japan 3,578 20.9% 2,456 19.3% 1,122 45.7% $ 17,146 100.0% $ 12,741 100.0% $ 4,405 34.6% 23 IoT Net revenue from our IoT product line for the three months ended September 30, 2020 increased in the Americas and APJ regions when compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019 due primarily to the addition of sales of products and services obtained through the acquisition of Intrinsyc Technologies Corporation (Intrinsyc). We also saw smaller increases in sales of (i) our XPort product family in the Americas region, (ii) our WiPort product family in the APJ region and (iii) our SGX product family, mostly in the Americas region. The overall increase in net revenues was partially offset by the exit of a low margin distribution business assumed in the acquisition of Maestro Wireless Solutions Limited and its subsidiaries (together, Maestro), various decreases in unit sales of some of our cellular and tracker products, as well as certain legacy product families, particularly in the EMEA region. REM Net revenue from our REM product line for the three months ended September 30, 2020 increased compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019 due primarily to increased unit sales of our SLC8000 product family across all regions, largely in the Americas. This was partially offset by a decrease in unit sales of our SLS product family in the EMEA region. Other Net revenue from our Other products, which are comprised of non-focus and end-of-life product families, declined slightly in all regions. Gross Profit Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of raw material components, subcontract labor assembly from contract manufacturers, direct and indirect personnel expenses related to professional services, manufacturing overhead, inventory reserves for excess and obsolete products or raw materials, warranty costs, royalties and share-based compensation. The following table presents our gross profit: Three Months Ended September 30, % of Net % of Net Change 2020 Revenue 2019 Revenue $ % (In thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 8,239 48.1% $ 6,195 48.6% $ 2,044 33.0% Gross profit as a percent of revenue (referred to as gross margin) for the three months ended September 30, 2020 decreased compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019 due primarily to sales of products obtained through the acquisition of Intrinsyc, which typically have lower margins than the Lantronix products that existed prior to the acquisition. 24 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including salaries and commissions, share-based compensation, facility expenses, information technology, trade show expenses, advertising, and legal and accounting fees. The following table presents our selling, general and administrative expenses: Three Months Ended September 30, % of Net % of Net Change 2020 Revenue 2019 Revenue $ % (In thousands, except percentages) Personnel-related expenses $ 3,179 $ 2,829 $ 350 12.4% Professional fees and outside services 588 507 81 16.0% Advertising and marketing 190 169 21 12.4% Facilities and insurance 382 310 72 23.2% Share-based compensation 445 459 (14 ) (3.1% ) Depreciation 45 54 (9 ) (16.7% ) Other 70 145 (75 ) (51.7% ) Selling, general and administrative $ 4,899 28.6% $ 4,473 35.1% $ 426 9.5% Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2020 increased when compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to (i) higher personnel-related costs resulting from the increased headcount assumed in the acquisition of Intrinsyc and increased variable compensation costs, and (ii) higher professional fees and outside services resulting from increased legal costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including share-based compensation, as well as expenditures to third-party vendors for research and development activities and product certification costs. Our quarterly costs related to outside services and product certifications vary from period to period depending on our level of development activities. 25 The following table presents our research and development expenses: Three Months Ended September 30, % of Net % of Net Change 2020 Revenue 2019 Revenue $ % (In thousands, except percentages) Personnel-related expenses $ 1,951 $ 1,762 $ 189 10.7% Facilities 266 265 1 0.4% Outside services 39 243 (204 ) (84.0% ) Product certifications 66 170 (104 ) (61.2% ) Share-based compensation 100 95 5 5.3% Other 150 86 64 74.4% Research and development $ 2,572 15.0% $ 2,621 20.6% $ (49 ) (1.9% ) Research and development expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2020 decreased when compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to (i) lower outside services costs related to engineering consulting fees and (ii) lower product certification costs related to the timing of product development projects. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in personnel-related costs resulting from the increased headcount assumed in the acquisition of Intrinsyc and increased variable compensation costs. Restructuring, Severance and Related Charges During the three months ended September 30, 2020, we incurred charges of approximately $92,000 related to certain headcount reductions and restructuring of certain non-essential operations. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we executed on our plans to realign certain personnel resources to better fit our business needs, particularly related to cost savings and synergies from the acquisition of Maestro. These activities resulted in a total charge of approximately $749,000. We may incur additional restructuring, severance and related charges in future periods as we continue to identify cost savings and synergies related to our acquisitions and general business operations. Acquisition-Related Costs During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred approximately $643,000 of acquisition-related costs in connection with the acquisition of Maestro. These costs were mainly comprised of banking, legal and other professional fees. Interest Income (Expense), Net We earn interest on our domestic cash balance. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we incurred net interest expense as a result of interest incurred on borrowings on our term loan. 26 Other Expense, Net Other expense, net, is comprised primarily of foreign currency remeasurement and transaction adjustments related to our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Provision for Income Taxes Refer to Note 7 of Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion regarding our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity The following table presents details of our working capital and cash and cash equivalents: September 30, June 30, 2020 2020 Change (In thousands) Working capital $ 19,306 $ 18,741 $ 565 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 7,709 $ 7,691 $ 18 Our principal sources of cash and liquidity include our existing cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and amounts available under our loan agreement with our bank, and cash generated from operations. We believe that these sources will be sufficient to fund our current requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and other financial commitments for at least the next 12 months. We anticipate that the primary factors affecting our cash and liquidity are net revenue, working capital requirements and capital expenditures. Management defines cash and cash equivalents as highly liquid deposits with original maturities of 90 days or less when purchased. We maintain cash and cash equivalents balances at certain financial institutions in excess of amounts insured by federal agencies. Management does not believe this concentration subjects us to any unusual financial risk beyond the normal risk associated with commercial banking relationships. We frequently monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. Our future working capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: timing and amount of our net revenue; our product mix and the resulting gross margins; research and development expenses; selling, general and administrative expenses; and expenses associated with any strategic partnerships, acquisitions or infrastructure investments. From time to time, we may seek additional capital from public or private offerings of our capital stock, borrowings under our existing or future credit lines or other sources in order to (i) develop or enhance our products, (ii) take advantage of strategic opportunities, (iii) respond to competition or (iv) continue to operate our business. We currently have a Form S-3 shelf registration statement on file with the SEC. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we issue debt securities to raise additional funds, we may incur debt service obligations, become subject to additional restrictions that limit or restrict our ability to operate our business, or be required to further encumber our assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise any such capital on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 27 COVID-19 Update We have not experienced any material delays or payment defaults by our customers as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, additional economic shutdowns or a prolonged economic recovery may lead to significant declines in billings and cash collection and result in an unfavorable impact on our financial results in future periods. While we do have a credit line available, financial covenants associated with the credit line may not enable us to draw down funds as needed. We have in place a contingency plan that significantly reduces operating costs in the event that we experience liquidity issues in order to help mitigate our liquidity risk. Bank Loan Agreements Refer to Note 5 of Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of our loan agreements. Cash Flows The following table presents the major components of the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows: Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Change (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 830 $ (1,079 ) $ 1,909 Net cash used in investing activities (113 ) (5,191 ) 5,078 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (699 ) 16 (715 ) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2020 increased compared to the prior year period as a result of a decrease in our net loss, which was mainly driven by an increase in our revenues and gross profit. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, our net loss included $1,720,000 of non-cash charges, while the changes in operating assets and liabilities used net cash of $588,000. Our net accounts receivable increased by $934,000, or 8.2%, from June 30, 2020 to September 30, 2020 primarily due to the timing of our net revenues, whereby a slightly larger portion of our sales during the three months ended September 30, 2020 were made near the end of the quarter as compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2020. Accounts payable increased by $1,345,000, or 25.2%, from June 30, 2020 to September 30, 2020 primarily due to the timing of inventory purchases and related payments to vendors. Investing Activities We used significantly less cash in investing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2020 than the prior year period due to the acquisition of Maestro in the prior year. The cash used during the current year period was for the purchase of certain property and equipment. 28 Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2020 was primarily the result of (i) monthly repayments on our term loan and (ii) withholding taxes paid related to the vesting of restricted stock units. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2020, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, including structured finance or special purpose entities, that have been established to facilitate off-balance sheet arrangements or for other purposes.