Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. We are filing this Form 10-K concurrently with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2022 and September 30, 2022. These reports are our first periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2022. Because of the delay in our periodic reporting and the changes that have occurred in our business since our last periodic filing, the information contained in this Form 10-K reflects, where appropriate, more recent information about our business. The delay in periodic reporting resulted, in part, from the Companys decision to conduct the Financial Statement Review before the Company could finalize the Restatement. The Company believed the Financial Statement Review was necessary to ensure that the financial statements and information included in this Form 10-K fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented. The Financial Statement Review covered, among other areas, the following: Revenue recognition for hardware, including accounting for channel partner discounts and the effect on other related accounts such as accounts receivable, inventory and costs of goods sold; Software accounts receivable, including the underlying software contracts and the allowance for doubtful accounts; Software revenue recognition related to software provisioning; Inventories, including purchase commitments; Capitalized and in-process internally-developed software; Stock-based compensation; and Accrued expenses. We believe that the turnover in our accounting and finance departments and the resulting lack of institutional knowledge also contributed to the delay in periodic reporting. We have not filed, and do not intend to file, amendments to any of our previously filed Annual Reports on Form 10-K or Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q covering the Restated Financial Statement Periods or 2019. Accordingly, with respect to such periods, investors and others should rely only on the financial information and other disclosures contained in this Form 10-K or in our future filings with the SEC, and not on the financial statements of any previously issued or filed reports, earnings releases or similar communications relating to the Restated Financial Statement Periods and 2019. Findings of Investigation The Investigation included a broad and extensive review of documents, including, among other items, customer contracts, invoices, purchase orders, letters of intent, customer quotes, shipping documentation, product return approvals, emails and internal messages. The Investigation also included interviews of certain present and former Company officers and employees as well as personnel from third-party channel partners. The initial scope of the Investigation consisted of invoice samples based upon the sales, payment and returns attributes of the largest channel partners. Following the preliminary findings, however, the scope of the Investigation was expanded to include samples across additional channel partners and sales directly to customers, which include building developers, building owners and property managers. The errors and issues identified by the Investigation include errors and issues in the recognition of revenue resulting primarily from (1) a failure of certain sales personnel in certain cases to disclose relevant terms they had negotiated with channel partners and a failure to identify, consider or properly account for such terms, (2) a failure to consider fully the impact of certain terms of sales agreements with channel partners in determining the amount and timing of revenue to be recognized and (3) a failure to adequately assess collectability. The Investigation also identified errors in certain key performance indicators, including 3 Table of Contents bookings and related metrics. However, to better align its key business metrics with its internal priorities and business plans for 2022 and beyond, the Company ceased presented bookings-related metrics in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022. Accordingly, those metrics should no longer be relied upon. The errors and issues identified by the Investigation occurred at various times throughout the Restated Financial Statement Periods and 2019. Internal Control Considerations Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. Based on (i) the findings of the Investigation, (ii) the Financial Statement Review and (iii) internal control deficiencies that existed as of December 31, 2021, the Company determined there were material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 in addition to those that existed as of December 31, 2021. As a result, the Companys Interim Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Companys internal control over financial reporting and disclosure