Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited consolidated financial statements and the related notes of Latch, Inc. and its subsidiaries included elsewhere in this Report. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, such as those set forth in the section captioned Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022 and elsewhere in this Report, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this subsection to we, our, Latch and the Company refer to the business and operations of Latch Systems, Inc. (formerly known as Latch, Inc.) and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination and to Latch, Inc. (formerly known as TS Innovation Acquisitions Corp.) and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Business Combination. Overview Latch is an enterprise technology company focused on revolutionizing how people experience spaces by making spaces better places to live, work and visit through a system of software, devices and services. Latch has created a full-building operating system, LatchOS, which addresses the essential requirements of modern buildings. LatchOS streamlines building operations, enhances the resident experience and enables efficient interactions with service providers. Our product offerings, designed to optimize the resident experience, include smart access, delivery and guest management, smart home and sensors, connectivity and personalization and services. We combine hardware, software and services into a holistic system that makes spaces more enjoyable for residents, more efficient and profitable for building operators and more convenient for service providers. LatchOS enables spaces across North America, including in 44 states and Canada, from affordable housing in Baltimore, to historic buildings in Manhattan, to luxury towers in the Midwest. Latch works with real estate developers, large and small, ranging from the largest real estate companies in the world to passionate local owners. We engage with customers early in their new construction or renovation process, helping establish Latch as the technology consultant for the building. LatchOS is made up of modules, enabling essential capabilities for modern buildings. Building owners have the flexibility to select LatchOS modules to match their specific buildings or portfolios needs. LatchOS software starting pricing ranges from $7-12 per apartment per month, depending on which capabilities the building owner selects, for the LatchOS Smart Access, Smart Home and Guest Management modules. Customers also purchase our hardware devices to go along with the LatchOS modules they choose. The LatchOS ecosystem has been created to serve all the stakeholders at a building, and today LatchOS modules consist of the following: Smart Access . Latchs smart access software capabilities include complete resident, building staff, guest, service provider and construction access management powered by the Latch R, M and C devices. These devices serve every door in a building, from apartment doors to elevators, to parking garages to gyms. Delivery & Guest Management . Going beyond smart access, Latch Intercom solves the access problem for unexpected guests and deliveries enabling visitors to quickly connect with residents or building operators with just a few clicks. The Latch Delivery Assistant takes this solution to the package room with a remote, virtual doorman facilitating secure package management. Smart Home & Sensors . Latchs enterprise device management enables smart home capabilities for thermostat, lighting, leak detection and other sensor integration, monitoring and centralized device management for building owner and private resident control right in the Latch App. The integration of the LatchOS platform with smart home device manufacturers like Google Nest, ecobee, Honeywell, Jasco and more provide our customers with a wide choice in smart home devices that can be controlled through LatchOS. Connectivity . Connecting devices, operations and residents reliably to the network across buildings can be complex. Latch Intercom and Latch Hubs cellular connectivity bring internet access to new and existing building infrastructure from new construction to retrofits. Personalization and Services . Residents can control all of the Latch-enabled devices in their spaces through the Latch App from the moment they arrive. Latchs mobile applications also enable resident onboarding, streamlining 26 the move-in experience. The average Latch App user interacts with the Latch App multiple times per day, giving us a foundation from which to engage and transact further with residents over time as we introduce new functionalities and services to the Latch mobile applications. After Latch has been installed and set up at a building, the building managers add all their residents as users to the Latch system. Our mobile applications then enable the residents to unlock all connected spaces in Latch buildings from the front door, package rooms, common spaces, elevators and garages to their unit entrance, control their thermostat and smart home devices from the app, see who rang the bell at the front door through Latch Intercom and let guests in through the app. In the near future, we believe that Latch has a powerful opportunity to improve the experience of living in a space through new offerings and services in the Latch App. Residents become highly engaged users across all the capabilities that Latch provides them in their spaces. Beyond enabling a new set of experiences at buildings for residents and building operators, Latch turns the purchase experience of smart building technology for building owners from a complex sale with multiple vendors into a simple process with Latch as a single vendor with a single contract and straightforward billing. LatchOS enables a unified management experience for building operators with a single interface to manage all Latch experiences instead of having a separate interface for each vendor and solution. Latch also enables a unified resident experience with a single interface through the Latch App for all resident-facing interactions and Latch experiences in our customers buildings. Devices that are part of the Latch ecosystem work better together since our curated set of partner devices and our smart building operating system, LatchOS, seamlessly integrate instead of a patchwork of devices from different vendors with different standards and interfaces that create technology silos and limited experiences. Our sales strategy is simple, repeatable, scalable and unique. We engage directly with our customers to ensure they have the best possible experience with Latch and our partners from sale to installation to lease-up. Latch engages with customers early in their construction or renovation process, establishing Latch as a technology advisor to the building. This engagement enables us to provide more technology advice early in the development process and creates high revenue visibility. Currently, we primarily serve the rental home markets in North America. Based on internal research and external reporting, we estimate there are approximately 32 million multi-family apartment home units in North America. Today we primarily serve new construction and retrofit buildings. Since our launch in 2017, we have seen the share of our business coming from retrofit opportunities increase significantly, a trend we expect to continue over the medium term. We also serve the single-family rental market through our existing relationships with large real estate developers and owners. Based on internal research and external reporting, we estimate there are 15 million single-family rental home units in North America. COVID-19 Update In March 2020, the outbreak of COVID-19 was declared a pandemic. Measures taken by various governments to contain the virus have affected economic activity. We have taken a number of measures to monitor and mitigate the effects of COVID-19, such as safety and health measures for our people (such as social distancing and working from home) and securing the supply of materials that are essential to our production process. The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted and may continue to disrupt our hardware deliveries due to delays in construction timelines at our customers building sites. COVID-19 has also affected our supply chain consistent with its effect across many industries, including creating shipping and logistics challenges. We expect these impacts, including potential delayed product availability and higher component and shipping costs, to continue for as long as the global supply chain is experiencing these challenges. We continue to invest in supply chain initiatives to address industry-wide capacity challenges. While the nature of the situation is dynamic, the Company has considered the impact when developing its estimates and assumptions. Actual results and outcomes may differ from managements estimates and assumptions. The Business Combination On June 4, 2021, we consummated the previously announced Merger, pursuant to which Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Latch, with Legacy Latch becoming our wholly owned subsidiary. On the Closing Date, and in connection with the Closing of the Transactions, we changed our name to Latch, Inc. On June 7, 2021, Latchs common stock and warrants began trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the ticker symbols LTCH and LTCHW, respectively. The Business Combination is accounted for as a reverse capitalization in accordance with GAAP. Under the guidance in ASC 805, Business Combinations , TSIA is treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. We are deemed the accounting predecessor of the combined business and the successor SEC registrant, meaning that our financial statements for 27 previous periods will be disclosed in future periodic reports filed with the SEC. See Note 1, Description of Business , in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements for additional detail about the Business Combination. Products and Platform Our platform, LatchOS, is a full building operating system that brings together all the elements that make up the modern building experience for building managers, vendors and residents. The LatchOS ecosystem consists of two general elements: software and devices. Our software and devices enable the essential features for every stakeholder in the Latch ecosystem. Latch has three software products in the market today: the Latch Resident Mobile Applications, Latch Manager Web and the Latch Manager Mobile Applications. These three products encompass the software that powers the LatchOS platform and allows devices and services to operate in harmony. We also have a collection of first-party devices and third-party partner devices and services that can integrate into the LatchOS system to be managed, controlled and/or operated through our software products. Software Products Latch Mobile Applications The Latch mobile applications are the primary tools for residents to unlock doors, give access to guests or service providers, control and manage smart devices, interact and communicate with the building or consumer services and transact with Latch. Latch offers a subset of these experiences through the Apple Watch as well. Latch Manager Web and Manager Mobile Applications Latch Manager Web is LatchOSs central orchestration application for building operators. Our fully integrated system lets property managers support the resident experience from a single source. From the Latch Manager Web, property managers can control access sharing, resolve issues remotely, save time and money on rental unit turnover and ensure their residents are secure. First Party Hardware Devices M, C, R Series The M, C and R series are door-mounted access control products that interface with industry-standard lock hardware. They are designed to meet every project requirement. They are built to industry standards, compliant with code requirements and suited for interior or exterior use. Other Devices Latch Intercom integrates seamlessly into the Latch core access systems and allows audio and video calls for remote unlocking. Latch Camera is a dome camera that integrates seamlessly into Latch Intercom and core access systems to allow for video calls for remote unlocking. Latch Hub is an all-in-one connectivity solution that enables smart access, smart home and sensor devices to do more at every building. The Latch Leak Detector offers a simple and scalable solution to enable leak prevention, detection and quick resolution for building owners and residents. Works with Latch: Third Party Devices, Software and Partnerships The LatchOS platform is compatible with a collection of industry-leading smart home devices, allowing these devices to be managed, controlled and viewed from the LatchOS platform. Latch has selected several initial smart home devices with which to integrate (currently or in the near term), including smart home devices manufactured by Google Nest, Honeywell, ecobee and Jasco, based on Latchs assessment that these devices are aligned with Latchs vision around enterprise device management privacy and security, design and brand when it comes to building operators and residents. Latch has entered into agreements with Google Nest, Honeywell and ecobee. Such agreements include application programming interface (API) licensing terms that allow partner devices to be managed, controlled and viewed from the LatchOS platform as appropriate for desired functionality. Such agreements include other terms that are customary in API license agreements, including intellectual property ownership and licensing provisions, joint marketing and advertising arrangements, indemnification obligations, confidentiality restrictions and data protection requirements. Jasco smart lighting products can be controlled by the LatchOS platform through the Zigbee protocol; therefore, no separate API license agreement is necessary between Latch and Jasco in order to integrate the LatchOS platform with their smart lighting products. 28 We understand that operating a building can be complex, and it can take many different processes, systems and tools to manage a great building. A majority of buildings we work with use property management software to manage their back-office operations. In order to accommodate those complex use-cases, we have forged partnerships with the top property management software companies, such as Yardi, RealPage and Entrata, and enabled integrations between such software and our software and devices so the building can operate seamlessly between the two systems at the building. We leverage our cutting-edge smart access platform to unlock new use-cases in adjacent real estate verticals and with partners that serve buildings. Our smart access platform integrates with partners such as Tour24, Pynwheel and UPS to enable unattended showings and secure package delivery, and it has also allowed us to build a robust business to business to consumer distribution channel for us to transact with residents through the Latch App and offer future consumer and on-demand services. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future success will be dependent on many factors, including those further discussed below. While these areas represent opportunities for Latch, they also represent challenges and risks that we must successfully address in order to operate and grow our business. Investing in Research and Development (R&D) and enhancing our customer experience . Our performance is significantly dependent on the investments we make in research and development, including our ability to attract and retain highly skilled research and development personnel. We must continually develop and introduce innovative new hardware products, mobile applications and other new offerings. If we fail to innovate and enhance our brand and our products, our market position and revenue will likely be adversely affected. Product introductions and expansion of our platform . We will need to expend additional resources to continue introducing new products, features and functionality to enhance the value of our platform. To date, product introductions have often had a positive impact on our operating results due primarily to increases in revenue associated with sales of new products in the quarters following their introduction. In the future, we intend to continue to release new products and enhance our existing products, and we expect that our operating results will be impacted by these releases. Category adoption, expansion of our total addressable market and market growth . Our future growth depends in part on the continued consumer adoption of hardware, software and services products that improve resident experience and the growth of this market. In addition, our long-term growth depends in part on our ability to expand into adjacent markets and international territories in the future. Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions that will impact our future operating results. Increases or decreases in our key business metrics may not correspond with increases or decreases in our revenue. The limitations our key business metrics have as an analytical tool include: (1) they might not accurately predict our future financial results and (2) other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate our key business metrics or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. As noted in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022, to better align our key business metrics with our internal priorities and business plans for 2022 and beyond, we are reporting new key business metrics beginning with the three months ended March 31, 2022, including Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) and Spaces. Rather than focusing on our prior bookings-related metrics that represented future target deliveries, we are now focusing on the near-term execution and delivery of software and the scale of our active platform. Accordingly, we have also adjusted our internal sales compensation structure to discontinue compensating our sales teams on bookings-related metrics beginning in the second quarter of 2022. We are continuing to report total revenue (GAAP) and net loss (GAAP) as key business metrics, and we are also reporting software revenue (GAAP) as an additional key business metric. 29 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (In thousands, except spaces) GAAP Measures: Software Revenue $ 3,039 $ 1,615 $ 1,424 88 % Total Revenue $ 13,655 $ 6,629 $ 7,026 106 % Net Loss $ (44,231) $ (38,101) $ (6,130) (16 %) Key Performance Indicators: ARR $ 7,927 $ 3,340 $ 4,587 137 % Spaces 126,746 55,305 71,441 129 % Adjusted EBITDA $ (36,815) $ (13,892) $ (22,923) (165 %) ARR We use ARR to measure the recurring cash we expect to collect from our customers. ARR is defined as the annualized value of our active software contracts. A contract is considered active if a signed contract is in effect as of the end of the period. The contract value represents the cash value to Latch, net of promotional, term and any other discounts. ARR is calculated as the total contract value divided by the contract term in months, multiplied by twelve. We believe ARR provides useful information to investors because it measures the health and growth of our software business. Spaces We use Spaces to measure the quantity of units with active software contracts in buildings that generate ARR. Units represent apartments, other dwelling units or commercial spaces in a building. We believe Spaces provides useful information to investors by indicating the size of the opportunity to grow total revenue by increasing additional hardware, software and services revenue generated by each Space. Adjusted EBITDA We define Adjusted EBITDA as our net loss, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, interest expense, provision for income taxes, restructuring, one-time litigation expenses, loss on extinguishment of debt, gain or loss on change in fair value of derivative instruments, warrant liabilities and trading securities, and transaction related expenses. We believe excluding the impact of these items in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core operating performance. We monitor, and have presented in this Report, Adjusted EBITDA because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance, to establish budgets and to develop operational goals for managing our business. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and a reconciliation of this measure to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We currently generate revenue from three sources: (1) hardware devices that are both Latch-built (first-party) and partner-built (third-party), (2) software products used by property managers via Web or mobile and by residents via mobile and (3) services related to the hardware devices. Hardware We generate hardware revenue primarily from the sale of our portfolio of both first-party and third-party devices for our smart access and smart building solutions. We sell hardware to building developers directly or through our channel partners who act as an intermediary and installer. We recognize hardware revenue when the hardware is shipped directly to building developers or to our channel partners, which is when control is transferred to the building developer. We provide warranties that our hardware will be substantially free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year for electronic components and five years for mechanical components. We replace, repair or refund warrantable devices at our sole discretion. We continue to see the impact of labor and building material shortages and construction delays. We continue to confront production issues due to industry-wide supply chain disruptions that created shortages of certain construction 30 materials and other products, and our customers also experienced trade labor availability constraints and delays. These factors continue to create construction delays for our customers, which have and may continue to delay the timing of our hardware revenue. In addition, we are experiencing higher inventory costs as a result of the global supply chain shortages, which we will continue to incur where economically reasonable in order to prioritize and meet customer demand. Software We generate software revenue primarily through the sale of our SaaS over our cloud-based platform on a subscription-based arrangement. Subscription fees vary depending on the optional features selected by customers as well as the term length. SaaS arrangements generally have term lengths of month-to-month, two-year, five-year and ten-year and include a fixed fee paid upfront except for the month-to-month arrangements. As a result of significant discounts provided to our customers on the longer-term software contracts paid up front, we have determined that there is a significant financing component related to the time value of money and have therefore broken out the interest component. Revenue is primarily recognized on a ratable basis over the subscription period of the contractual arrangement beginning when or as control of the promised services is available or transferred to the customer. We expect software revenue to increase as a percentage of total revenue over time. Services We generate revenues related to hardware, which includes services related to installation and activation of hardware devices sold to building developers. These services are recognized over time on a percentage of completion basis. Cost of Revenue Cost of hardware revenue consists primarily of product costs, including manufacturing costs, duties and other applicable importing costs, shipping and handling costs, packaging, warranty costs, assembly costs and warehousing costs, as well as other non-inventoriable costs including personnel-related expenses associated with supply chain logistics and channel partner fees. Cost of software revenue consists primarily of outsourced hosting costs and personnel-related expenses associated with monitoring and managing the outsourced hosting service provider. Our cost of revenue excludes depreciation and amortization shown in operating expenses. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of outsourced labor costs, parts and materials and personnel-related expenses associated with direct deployment of our hardware. We expect some volatility in cost of hardware revenue primarily due to recent widespread challenges within the global electronics supply chain leading to a much more tactical sourcing environment and higher production and shipping costs. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative and depreciation and amortization expenses. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses for our employees working on our product, design and engineering teams, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, payroll taxes, travel and stock-based compensation. Also included are non-personnel costs such as amounts paid to our third-party contract manufacturers for tooling, engineering and prototype costs of our hardware products, fees paid to third-party consultants, R&D supplies and rent. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to make significant investments in developing new products and enhancing existing products. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses for our employees working on our sales, customer success, deployment and marketing teams, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, payroll taxes, travel, commissions and stock-based compensation. Also included are non-personnel costs such as marketing activities (trade shows and events, conferences and digital advertising), professional fees, rent and customer support. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our sales force and marketing efforts to drive increased market share through new customer acquisition and provide best in class support to our existing customer base. 31 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses for our executive, legal, human resources, finance and IT functions, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, payroll taxes, travel and stock-based compensation. Additional expenses included in this category are non-personnel costs such as legal fees, rent, professional fees, audit fees, bad debt expense and insurance costs. During the first quarter of 2021, we incurred stock-based compensation expense from a non-recurring secondary purchase as described in Note 14, Stock-Based Compensation , in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements. Excluding this impact, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars primarily due to: (i) the continued growth of our business and related infrastructure; and (ii) legal, accounting, director and officer insurance, investor relations and other costs associated with operating as a public company. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses consist primarily of depreciation expense related to investments in property and equipment and internally developed capitalized software. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists of interest expense associated with the significant financing component of our longer-term software contracts, interest expense associated with our debt financing arrangements, interest income on highly liquid short-term investments, gain or loss on extinguishment of debt and gain or loss on change in fair value of derivatives, warrant liabilities and trading securities. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred assets will not be utilized. 32 Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 The following tables set forth our historical operating results for the periods indicated. The period-to-period comparison of operating results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (In thousands, except share and per share data) Revenue: Hardware $ 9,055 $ 5,014 $ 4,041 81 Software 3,039 1,615 1,424 88 Services 1,561 1,561 N.M. Total revenue 13,655 6,629 7,026 106 Cost of revenue (1) Hardware 10,992 6,028 4,964 82 Software 323 134 189 141 Services 1,718 1,718 N.M. Total cost of revenue 13,033 6,162 6,871 112 Operating expenses: Research and development 18,257 9,615 8,642 90 Sales and marketing 17,296 3,750 13,546 361 General and administrative 14,178 17,696 (3,518) (20) Depreciation and amortization 1,506 653 853 131 Total operating expenses 51,237 31,714 19,523 62 Loss from operations (50,615) (31,247) (19,368) (62) Other income (expense) Change in fair value of warrant liability 6,267 6,267 N.M. Change in fair value of trading securities 1,000 1,000 N.M. Interest expense, net (864) (3,318) 2,454 74 Other expense (2) (3,536) 3,534 100 Total other income (expense), net 6,401 (6,854) 13,255 193 Loss before income taxes (44,214) (38,101) (6,113) (16) Provision for income taxes 17 17 N.M. Net loss $ (44,231) $ (38,101) $ (6,130) (16) Other comprehensive loss Unrealized loss on available-for-sale securities (1,618) (1,618) N.M. Foreign currency translation adjustment 2 (7) 9 N.M. Comprehensive income (loss) $ (45,847) $ (38,108) $ (7,739) (20) Net loss per common share Basic and diluted net loss per common share $ (0.31) $ (3.65) Weighted average shares outstanding Basic and diluted 141,970,190 10,438,778 (1) Exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown in operating expenses below. N.M. Not meaningful 33 Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 Revenue Revenue increased $7.0 million when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2022 with the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was driven by a $4.0 million increase in hardware revenue, a $1.4 million increase in software revenue and a $1.6 million increase in services revenue, which was a new product offering released in the second quarter of 2021. The 81% hardware revenue growth is attributable to accelerated demand across all of our access products as well as third-party smart home devices. Software revenue increased 88%, which reflects the continued growth in Spaces as a result of the continued increases in delivered hardware units. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased $6.9 million when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2022 with the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily a result of the increases in cost of hardware revenue of $5.0 million and cost of services revenue of $1.7 million. The increase in cost of hardware revenue was mainly driven by costs associated with the increased hardware unit deliveries and increased hardware inventory costs due to the global supply chain challenges. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased $8.6 million when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2022 with the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to: (i) $6.8 million of higher personnel-related expenses due to increased headcount to invest in expanding the functionality of our LatchOS platform; (ii) $0.6 million of higher stock-based compensation due to the RSUs granted since August 2021; and (iii) $0.5 million of higher software license expense due to increased investments made in technology. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased $13.5 million when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2022 with the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to: (i) $8.2 million in higher personnel-related expenses due to increased headcount as we invest in our sales force and demand generation team; (ii) $2.2 million of higher stock-based compensation due to the RSUs granted since August 2021; (iii) $1.3 million of higher advertising expense; and (iv) $0.7 million in higher travel expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses decreased by $3.5 million when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2022 with the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to $5.7 million in lower stock-based compensation as a result of a non-recurring stock-based compensation charge incurred in the first quarter of 2021 in connection with the sale of shares to investors by certain Company employees and non-employee service providers, partially offset by $2.1 million in higher personnel-related expenses due to increased headcount as a result of building out our corporate infrastructure to operate as a public company. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $0.9 million when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2022 with the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to the increased capitalization and releases of internally developed software as a result of our investments made in our software engineering team and added functionality to our LatchOS platform. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income increased by $13.3 million when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2022 with the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily due to: (i) a $6.3 million favorable change in the fair value of the private placement warrants; (ii) a $1.0 million favorable change in fair value of the trading securities; (iii) a $2.5 million decrease in interest expense primarily related to the conversion of the Convertible Notes and the repayment of the term loan in June 2021 as part of the Business Combination; and (iv) a $3.5 million decrease in other expense primarily due to the extinguishment of the derivatives in June 2021 as part of the Business Combination. 34 Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred losses since our inception. Prior to the Closing of the Business Combination, our operations were financed primarily through net proceeds from the issuance of our redeemable convertible preferred stock and Convertible Notes, as well as borrowings under our term loan. We received approximately $448.0 million in cash proceeds, net of fees and expenses funded in connection with the June 4, 2021 Closing of the Business Combination, which included approximately $192.6 million from the PIPE Investment. At Closing, we also repaid the $5.0 million term loan and cancelled an associated $5.0 million revolving line of credit. Also in connection with the Closing of the Business Combination, $50.0 million outstanding principal amount of Convertible Notes, and unpaid accrued interest thereon, converted into 6.9 million shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $373.7 million, working capital of $283.4 million, $2.3 million outstanding under our $6.0 million revolving facility with a freight forwarding and customs brokerage company and $91.0 million in cash and cash equivalents. We have invested in available-for-sale securities, including commercial paper, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency debt securities and asset backed securities. As of March 31, 2022, available-for-sale securities totaled approximately $244.1 million. See Note 3, Investments , in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements. The Companys available-for-sale securities investment portfolio is primarily invested in highly rated securities, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The Companys investment policy generally requires securities to be investment grade and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. We subcontract with other companies to manufacture our products. During the normal course of business, we and our manufacturers procure components based upon a forecasted production plan. If we cancel all or part of the orders, we may be liable to our suppliers and manufacturers for the cost of the unutilized component orders or components purchased by our manufacturers. Historically, we do not believe there have been any material liabilities that have resulted from cancellation of purchase orders. Our short-term liquidity needs primarily include working capital for sales and marketing, research and development and continued innovation. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our levels of revenue, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, market acceptance of our products, the results of business initiatives, the timing of new product introductions and overall economic conditions. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities and revolving facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Indebtedness On July 1, 2021, the Company executed a new revolving credit facility replacing the matured facility described in Note 10, Debt , in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements. The revolving facility has a credit limit of $6.0 million with no stated maturity date. An installment plan agreement is executed for each financing request, which includes the interest rate. The revolving facility has no financial covenants and limited non-financial covenants, including requiring the lenders consent prior to a disposition of substantially all assets, a merger or acquisition or an ownership change in excess of 50% of the voting capital stock of the borrower. As of March 31, 2022, $2.3 million was outstanding under the revolving facility. Cash Flows The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021: Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (43,803) $ (14,330) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 12,165 (1,736) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (2,177) 2,088 Effect of exchange rates on cash (8) (9) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (33,823) $ (13,987) Operating Activities The increase of $29.5 million in net cash used in operating activities reflects the $19.4 million increase in the net loss, after adjusting for non-cash items, and a higher increase in inventory of $8.6 million in order to secure inventory in light of the uncertainty in the global supply chain environment. 35 Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities increased by $13.9 million to $12.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $(1.7) million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to proceeds from the sales or maturities of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by higher capitalization of internally developed software costs reflecting increased headcount as well as incremental new functionality being added to our LatchOS platform for future product releases. Financing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities consisted of: (i) a $1.1 million net repayment of our revolving facility and (ii) a $1.3 million payment for tax withholding on net settlements of RSUs, partially offset by $0.2 million received upon the issuance of common stock in connection with exercises of stock options. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities consisted primarily of $2.0 million received upon the issuance of common stock in connection with exercises of stock options. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements for information about recent accounting pronouncements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP and to provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have presented in this Report Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure. Adjusted EBITDA is not based on any standardized methodology prescribed by GAAP and is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. We define Adjusted EBITDA as our net loss, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, interest expense, provision for income taxes, restructuring, one-time litigation expenses, loss on extinguishment of debt, gain or loss on change in fair value of derivative instruments, warrant liabilities and trading securities, and transaction related expenses. The most directly comparable GAAP measure is net loss. We believe excluding the impact of these items in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core operating performance. We monitor, and have presented in this Report, Adjusted EBITDA because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our operating performance, to establish budgets and to develop operational goals for managing our business. We believe Adjusted EBITDA helps identify underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the expenses that we include in net loss. Accordingly, we believe Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors, analysts and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results, enhancing the overall understanding of our past performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation of, or as an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of Adjusted EBITDA rather than net loss, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculations of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA when they report their operating results. In addition, other companies may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of Adjusted EBITDA as a tool for comparison. 36 The following table reconciles Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Net Loss Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Net loss $ (44,231) $ (38,101) Depreciation and amortization 1,506 653 Interest expense, net (1) 864 3,318 Provision for income taxes 17 Change in fair value of derivative liabilities 3,597 Change in fair value of warrant liability (6,267) Change in fair value of trading securities (1,000) Transaction-related costs (2) 538 2,148 Litigation costs (3) 40 Stock-based compensation (4) 11,718 14,493 Adjusted EBITDA $ (36,815) $ (13,892) (1) As a result of significant discounts provided to our customers on our longer-term software contracts paid upfront, the Company has determined that there is a significant financing component related to the time value of money and has therefore broken out the interest component and recorded it as a component of interest income (expense), net on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The interest expense is recorded using the effective interest method, which has higher interest expense at inception and declines over time to match the underlying economics of the transaction where the outstanding principal balance decreases over time. Interest expense associated with the significant financing component included in interest (income) expense, net was $1.1 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (2) Transaction costs related to the Business Combination. These costs are included within sales and marketing and general and administrative within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. (3) Legal and settlement fees incurred in connection with non-ordinary course litigation and other disputes. These costs are included within general and administrative within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. (4) Stock-based compensation expense associated with equity compensation plans including $11.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 related to RSUs granted since August 2021 and $13.8 million related to the secondary purchase transaction during the three months ended March 31, 2021. See Note 14, Stock-Based Compensation included in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements. 37