Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes of Latch, Inc. and its subsidiaries included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, such as those set forth in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this subsection to we, our, Latch and the Company refer to the business and operations of Latch Systems, Inc. (formerly known as Latch, Inc.) and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination and to Latch, Inc. (formerly known as TS Innovation Acquisitions Corp.) and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Business Combination. For a comparison of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2022 Annual Report. Overview Latch is a technology company primarily serving the multifamily rental home market segment of the smart building industry deploying hardware and software technology to digitize otherwise manual processes, including building and unit access and in-unit device control. We combine hardware, software and services into a system that enables smart access for users of a multifamily building, enabling easier, more modernized experiences for residents and visitors, more efficient operations for building owners and property managers and more convenient interaction for service providers. We designed and developed the Latch Platform, a cloud-based SaaS product, to address the access requirements of modern multifamily buildings. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future success is dependent on many factors, including those further discussed below. While these areas represent opportunities for Latch, they also represent challenges and risks that we must successfully address in order to operate and grow our business. Evolving our go-to-market strategy. Our performance is dependent on evolving our go-to-market strategy to address the needs of our customers and facilitate efficient internal motions. We must continue to develop a go-to-market strategy that scales and allows higher sales volumes at lower incremental costs. Our ability to generate operating profits and grow our business depends, in part, on the success of our go-to-market strategy. Investing in research and development (R&D) and enhancing our customer experience. Our performance is dependent on the investments we make in research and development, including our ability to attract and retain highly skilled research and development personnel. We believe we must continually develop and introduce innovative new hardware products, software applications and other offerings. If we fail to innovate and enhance our brand and our products, our market position and revenue will likely be adversely affected. Category adoption, expansion of our total addressable market and market growth. Our future growth depends in part on the continued adoption of hardware and software products that improve resident experience and the growth of this market. Key Business Metrics We are presenting software revenue (prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP)), total revenue (GAAP), net loss (GAAP) and Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) as key business metrics, as we believe each of those metrics is important in measuring our performance, identifying trends affecting our business, formulating business plans and making strategic decisions that will impact our future operational results. 52 Table of Contents Our key business metrics are as follows for the periods presented (in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 $ Change % Change GAAP Measures: Software revenue $ 17,775 $ 13,024 $ 4,751 36.5 % Total revenue $ 44,961 $ 42,955 $ 2,006 4.7 % Net loss $ (107,540) $ (162,336) $ 54,796 (33.8 %) Non-GAAP Measure: Adjusted EBITDA $ (68,459) $ (118,573) $ 50,114 (42.3 %) Adjusted EBITDA To supplement our financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP and to provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have presented in this Form 10-K Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure. Adjusted EBITDA is not based on any standardized methodology prescribed by GAAP and is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. We define Adjusted EBITDA as our net loss, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, interest expense, provision for income taxes, restructuring, non-ordinary course legal fees and settlement reserves, loss on extinguishment of debt, gain or loss on change in fair value of derivative instruments, warrant liabilities and trading securities and transaction-related expenses. The most directly comparable GAAP measure is net loss. We believe excluding the impact of these items in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core operating performance. We monitor, and have presented in this Form 10-K, Adjusted EBITDA because it is a key measure used by our management and Board to understand and evaluate our operating performance, to establish budgets and to develop operational goals for managing our business. We believe Adjusted EBITDA helps identify underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the expenses that we include in net loss. Accordingly, we believe Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors, analysts and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results, enhancing the overall understanding of our past performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation of, or as an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of Adjusted EBITDA rather than net loss, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculations of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA when they report their operating results. 53 Table of Contents In addition, other companies may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of Adjusted EBITDA as a tool for comparison. The following table reconciles Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP (in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (107,540) $ (162,336) Depreciation and amortization 7,201 5,504 Interest (income) expense, net(1) (2,309) 2,961 Provision for income taxes 30 89 Change in fair value of warrant liability (230) (9,558) Change in fair value of trading securities 3,460 Restructuring costs(2) 5,812 8,573 Transaction-related costs(3) 1 468 Non-ordinary course legal fees and settlement reserves(4) 10,405 2,010 Stock-based compensation(5) 18,171 30,256 Adjusted EBITDA $ (68,459) $ (118,573) (1)As a result of significant discounts provided to our customers on certain long-term software contracts paid in advance, the Company has determined that there is a significant financing component related to the time value of money and has therefore broken out the interest component and recorded it as a component of interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Interest (income) expense, net includes interest expense associated with the significant financing component of $4.6 million and $5.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. (2)Reflects restructuring costs primarily associated with the July 2023 RIF for the year ended December 31, 2023 and resulting from the 2022 RIFs for the year ended December 31, 2022. (3)Transaction costs related to the Business Combination. (4)Non-ordinary course legal fees and settlement reserves incurred in connection with non-ordinary course litigation and disputes. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the amount includes (i) the Companys $14.875 million share of the settlement amount related to the Merger Lawsuits, as defined and described in Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies, in Part II,