Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes of Latch, Inc. and its subsidiaries included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, such as those set forth in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this subsection to we, our, Latch, DOOR and the Company refer to the business and operations of (i) Latch Systems, Inc. (formerly known as Latch, Inc.) and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination and (ii) Latch, Inc. (formerly known as TS Innovation Acquisitions Corp.) and its consolidated subsidiaries following the consummation of the Business Combination. For a comparison of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (the 2023 Annual Report). Overview Latch is a technology company delivering an integrated ecosystem of hardware, software and services designed to enhance operations and experiences within buildings, primarily serving the multifamily rental market. In August 2025, we rebranded as DOOR, although our legal name remains Latch, Inc. Our core offering is built around the DOOR Platform, which powers and manages our suite of smart access control devices (including locks, readers and intercoms) and smart home devices and integrates with other connected devices within a building. We provide solutions that streamline building management for property owners and operators, offer modern convenience and security for residents and simplify interactions for visitors and service providers. While our foundation remains smart access control, we are actively expanding the DOOR Platform and our device integrations to encompass broader smart home solutions, managing devices such as sensors, thermostats and lighting. This ongoing expansion leverages our established platform to create more connected and efficient buildings as we lay the groundwork for a building intelligence platform, automating and streamlining building operations, including work order management and automation, property maintenance and unit inspections and repairs. Our customers, which include real estate developers, builders, owners and property managers in the United States and Canada, typically purchase our hardware devices (directly or indirectly through our channel partner network) and directly license our SaaS platform. Residents interact with the DOOR Platform through the DOOR App. Through the DOOR App, residents access common areas and unlock residential doors, provide guest access, manage smart home devices and book services. Our professional services offerings are integral to ensuring successful deployment of the DOOR Platform and ongoing support for our customers and their residents. This includes connecting our multifamily property customers with our partners for installation of Latch and third-party smart access and smart home hardware, ensuring that solutions are implemented efficiently and correctly. Complementing our multifamily installation capabilities, our HelloTech business provides a scalable, nationwide network of skilled independent technicians. HelloTech connects these service providers with residents and property managers seeking a wide range of on-demand technical services, such as TV mounting and smart home device installation and set-up, as well as broader home services, such as furniture assembly, handyman services and home cleaning. Additionally, we offer a comprehensive property management service in and around Boston, Massachusetts. We operate in one operating and reporting segment. 49 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We are presenting software revenue (prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP)), total revenue (GAAP), net loss (GAAP) and Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) as key business metrics, as we believe each of those metrics is important in measuring our performance, identifying trends affecting our business, formulating business plans and making strategic decisions that will impact our future operational results. Our key business metrics are as follows for the periods presented (in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change GAAP Measures: Software revenue $ 20,255 $ 17,775 $ 2,480 14.0 % Total revenue $ 56,630 $ 44,961 $ 11,669 26.0 % Net loss $ (57,596) $ (107,540) $ 49,944 (46.4 %) Non-GAAP Measure: Adjusted EBITDA $ (40,741) $ (68,459) $ 27,718 (40.5 %) Adjusted EBITDA To supplement our financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP and to provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have presented in this Form 10-K Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure. Adjusted EBITDA is not based on any standardized methodology prescribed by GAAP and is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. We define Adjusted EBITDA as our net loss, excluding the impact of the following items, if applicable: (i) depreciation and amortization expense, (ii) net interest income or expense, (iii) provision for income taxes, (iv) change in fair value of warrant liability, trading securities, or derivative instruments, (v) restructuring costs, (vi) transaction-related costs, (vii) net impairment of intangible assets, (viii) non-ordinary course legal fees and settlement reserves, (ix) stock-based compensation expense and (x) gain or loss on extinguishment of debt. The most directly comparable GAAP measure is net loss. We believe excluding the impact of these items in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core operating performance. We monitor, and have presented in this Form 10-K, Adjusted EBITDA because it is a key measure used by our management and Board to understand and evaluate our operating performance, to establish budgets and to develop operational goals for managing our business. We believe Adjusted EBITDA helps identify underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the expenses that we include in net loss. Accordingly, we believe Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors, analysts and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results, enhancing the overall understanding of our past performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation of, or as an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of Adjusted EBITDA rather than net loss, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the expenses and other items that we exclude in our calculations of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the expenses and other items, if any, that other companies may exclude from Adjusted EBITDA when they report their operating results. 50 Table of Contents In addition, other companies may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of Adjusted EBITDA as a tool for comparison. The following table reconciles Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP (in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net loss $ (57,596) $ (107,540) Depreciation and amortization 7,202 7,201 Interest income, net(1) (1,416) (2,309) Provision for income taxes 2 30 Change in fair value of warrant liability (159) (230) Restructuring costs(2) 1,581 5,812 Transaction-related costs 1 Impairment of intangible assets, net(3) 2,849 Non-ordinary course legal fees and settlement reserves(4) 7,376 10,405 Stock-based compensation(5) (580) 18,171 Adjusted EBITDA $ (40,741) $ (68,459) (1)As a result of significant discounts provided to our customers on certain long-term software contracts paid in advance, the Company has determined that there is a significant financing component related to the time value of money and has therefore broken out the interest component and recorded it as a component of interest income, net on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Interest income, net includes interest expense associated with the significant financing component of $3.5 million and $4.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. (2)The Company does not anticipate incurring any restructuring costs during the year ending December 31, 2025. See Note 21. Restructuring,in Part II,