Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Operations We do not manufacture our own silicon products. We maintain strategic relationships with large semiconductor foundries to source our finished silicon wafers. This strategy allows us to focus our internal resources on product and market development, and eliminates the fixed cost of owning and operating semiconductor manufacturing facilities. We are also able to 7 take advantage of the ongoing advanced process technology development efforts of semicond uctor foundries. The Company and Fujitsu Limited (Fujitsu) have entered into agreements pursuant to which Fujitsu manufactures most of our new products on its 130 nanometer, 90 nanometer and 65 nanometer CMOS process technologies, as well as on 130 nanometer, 90 nanometer and 65 nanometer technologies with embedded flash memory that we have jointly developed with Fujitsu. Fujitsu is our sole source supplier of wafers for our newest FPGA and PLD products. In addition, all of our assembly o perations and most of our test operations are performed by outside suppliers. We rely on a third party vendor to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. Among other activities, these outsourced services relate to direct sales logistics, including order fulfillment, inventory management and warehousing, and distribution of inventory to third party distributors. During December 2009, we adopted a restructuring plan under which we established an operations center and transferred a portion of our supply chain support activities from our headquarters in Oregon to the new operations center in Singapore in 2010. &nbs p; We perform certain test operations and reliability and quality assurance processes internally. We have achieved and maintained ISO9001:2000 Quality Management Systems Certification and ISO16949:2002 Quality Systems Certification, and released a full line of PLD products qualified to the AEC-Q100 Reliability Standard. Wafer Fabrication We source silicon wafers from our foundry partners, Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited in Japan, Seiko Epson Corporation in Japan, United Microelectronics Corporation in Taiwan and GLOBALFOUNDRIES in Singapore, pursuant to agreements with each company and their respective affiliates. We negotiate wafer volumes, prices and other terms with our foundry partners and their respective affiliates on a periodic basis. Assembly After wafer fabrication and initial testing, we ship wafers to independent subcontractors for assembly. During assembly, wafers are separated into individual die and encapsulated in plastic or ceramic packages. Presently, we have qualified assembly partners in Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Taiwan, the Philippines, Singapore and South Korea. We negotiate assembly prices, volumes and other terms with our assembly partners and their respective affiliates on a periodic basis. We currently offer an extensive list of standard products in lead (Pb) free packaging. Our lead-free products meet the European Parliament Directive entitled Restrictions on the use of Hazardous Substances. A se lect and growing subset of our ROHS compliant products are also offered with a "Halogen Free" material set. Testing We electrically test the die on each wafer prior to shipment for assembly. Following assembly, prior to customer shipment, each product undergoes final testing and quality assurance procedures. Wafer sort testing is performed by independent contractors in Malaysia, Japan, Singapore and at our Orego n facility. Final testing is performed by independent contractors in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, and at our Oregon facility. Marketing, Sales and Customers We sell our products directly to end customers through a network of independent manufacturers' representatives and indirectly through a network of independent sell-in and sell-through distributors. We also employ a direct sales management and field applications engineering organizat ion to support our end customers and indirect sales resources. Our end customers are primarily original equipment manufacturers in the communications, computing, consumer, industrial, automotive, medical and military end markets. We have agreements with 17 manufacturers' representatives and three primary distributors; Arrow Electronics, Inc., including Nu Horizon Electronics Corp., (wholly owned subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc.), Avnet Inc., distributors of the Weikeng Group (Weikeng Industrial Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and Weikeng International Co. Ltd. (Hong Kong)). We have also established export sales channels in over 50 foreign countries through a network of over 15 sales representatives and distributors. The majority of our sales are made through distr ibutors. Orders from our sell-through distributors are initially recorded at published list prices; however, for a majority of our 8 sales, the final price is set at the time of resale and is determined in accordance with a distributor price agreement. In addition, we allow returns from sell-through distributors of unsold products under certain conditions. For these reasons, we do not recognize revenue until products are resold by sell-through distributors to an end customer. At times, we protect our sell-through distributors against reductions in published list prices. We provide technical and marketing support to our end customers with engineering staff based at our headquarters, product development centers and selected field sales offices. We maintain numerous domestic and international field sales offices in major metropolitan areas. Export sales as a percentage of our total revenue were 88% , 85% and 83% in fiscal 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Export sales to China accounted for 42% , 43% and 28% of revenue in fiscal 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respe ctively, to Europe accounted for 18% , 17% and 21% of revenue in fiscal 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively, to Japan acco unted for 13% , 10% and 14% of revenue in fiscal 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively, and to Taiwan accounted for 3% , 3% and 9% of revenue in fiscal 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Both export and domestic sales are denominated in U.S. dolla rs, with the exception of sales to Japan, where sales to certain customers are denominated in yen. Our largest customers are distributors and have historically made up a significant portion of our total revenue. Revenue attributable to resales of products by Arrow Electronics, Inc., including its wholly-owned subsidiary Nu Horizons Electronics Corp. accounted for approximately 18%, 12% and 14% of revenue in fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Revenue attributable to resales of products by Avnet, Inc. accounted for approximately 17%, 13% and 14% of revenue in fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Revenue attributable to resales of products by the Weikeng Group (Weikeng Industrial Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and Weikeng International Co. Ltd. (Hong Kong)) accounted for approximately 14%, 9% and 0% of revenue in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales of pr oducts to Promaster Technology Corporation accounted for approximately 0%, 1% and 10% of revenue in fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Sales of products to ASTI Holdings Ltd. accounted for approximately 0%, 16% and 7% of revenue in fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. No other individual customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue in any of the fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 . During fiscal 2009, the Company embarked on a pr ogram to restructure its distribution channels, primarily in the Asia Pacific region, from a sell-in to a sell-through distribution model. As a result the majority of our revenue in fiscal 2010 was from resale of our products by sell-through distributors. In connection with this program, Lattice terminated our distribution agreement between Lattice and Promaster Technology Corporation on July 2, 2009, between Lattice and Dragon Technology Distribution and FE Global Electronics effective for various territories on February 1 and February 6, 2010, respectively, and between Lattice and other distributors effective on various dates. Dragon Technology Distribution and FE Global Electronics are wholly-owned subsidiaries of ASTI Holdings Ltd. Resale of product by sell-through distributors as a percentage of our total revenue was 56% , 38% and 33% in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Seasonality In most years, we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products. Sales of our products are often stronger in the first half of the year and often weaker in the summer months. In addition, December is often a weak month for sales. However, on balance, general economic conditions and the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry have a greater impact on our business and financial results than seasonal trends. Backlog Our backlog of scheduled and released orders at January 1, 2011 was $97.1 million , as compared to $84.9 million at January 2, 2010 . This backlog consisted of direct customer and distributor orders (which includes orders to sell-through distributors valued at published list prices) scheduled for delivery within the next 90 days. The increase in backlog is primarily related to improved business conditions. Direct customer orders and sell-in distributor orders may be changed, rescheduled or canceled under certain circumstances without penalty prior to shipment. Revenue associated with direct customers and sell-in distributors is recognized upon shipment. Sell-through distributor orders accounted for the majority of the backlog at fiscal year end 2010 and 2009. These orders are valued at list price and are subject to price adjustments. Therefore, the majority of our backl og is substantially higher than the price ultimately recognized as revenue. Revenue associated with sell-through distributor shipments is not recognized until the product is resold to an end customer. Typically, a significant amount of our revenue results from orders placed and filled within the same period. Such orders are referred to as turns orders. By definition, turns orders are not captured in a backlog measurement made at the beginning of a period. For these reasons, backlog as of any particular date should not be used as a predictor of revenue for any future period. 9 Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid rates of technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion. Our current and potential competitors include a broad range of semiconductor companies from emerging companies to large, established companies, many of which have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources than we do. The principal competitive factors in the programmable logic market include silicon and software product features, price, technical support, sales, marketing and distribution strength. The availability of competitive intellectual property cores is also critical. In addition to product features such as density, performance, power consumption, re-programmability, and reliability, competition occurs on the basis of price and market acceptance of specific products and technology. We intend to continue to address these competitive factors by working to continually introduce product enhancements and new products and by reducing the manufacturing cost of our products. We compete directly with Actel Corporation (acquired by Microsemi Corporation in November 2010), Altera Corporation and Xilinx, Inc. We also indirectly compete with other semiconductor companies that provide logic solutions that are not user programmable that offer products based on alternative solutions such as ASIC, ASSP, microcontroller, analog and DSP technologies. Although to date we have not experienced direct competition from companies located outside the United States, such companies may become a more significant competitive factor in the future. Competition may also increase if other larger semiconductor companies seek to expand into our market. Any such increases in competition could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Intellectual Property We seek to protect our products and technologies primarily through patents, trade secrecy measures, copyrights, mask work protection, trademark registrations, licensing restrictions, confidentiality agreements and other approaches designed to protect proprietary information. There can be no assurance that others may not independently develop competitive technology not covered by our intellectual property rights or that measures we take to protect our technology will be effective. Patents We hold numerous domestic, European and Asian patents and have patent applications pending in the United States, Europe and Asia. Our current patents will expire at various times between 2010 and 2029. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications or other applications that may be filed will result in issued patents, or that any issued patents will survive challenges to their validity. Although we believe that our patents have value, there can be no assurance that our patents, or any additional patents that may be issued in the future, will provide meaningful protection from competition. We believe that our success will depend primarily upon the technical expertise, experience, crea tivity and the sales and marketing abilities of our personnel. Patent and other proprietary rights infringement claims are common in our industry. There can be no assurance that, with respect to any claim made against us, that we would be able to successfully defend against the claim or that we could obtain a license that would allow us to use the proprietary rights on terms or under conditions that would not harm our business. Licenses an d Agreements Advanced Micro Devices In 1999, as part of our acquisition of Vantis Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), we entered into an agreement with AMD pursuant to which we have cross-licensed Vantis patents with AMD patents, having an effective filing date on or before June 15, 1999, related to programmable logic product s. This cross-license was made on a worldwide, non-exclusive and royalty-free basis. Additionally, as part of our acquisition of Vantis, we acquired certain third-party license rights held by Vantis prior to the acquisition. Agere Systems In 2002, as part of our acquisition of the FPGA business of Agere Systems, Inc., we entered into an intellectual property agreement with Agere and Agere Systems Guardian Corporation. Pursuant to this agreement, these Agere companies assigned or licensed to us certain FPGA and Field Programmable System Chip patents, trademarks, software and other intellectual property rights and technology, and we licensed back rights in these same assets. These cross-licenses were made 10 on a worldwide, non-exclusive and royalty-free basis. Altera In 2001, we entered into a comprehensive, royalty-free, non-exclusive patent cross-license agreement and a multi-year patent peace agreement with Altera. Fujitsu On September 10, 2004, we entered into an Advance Payment and Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) with Fujitsu Limited (Fujitsu), pursuant to which we advanced $125.0 million in support of the development and construction of a 300mm wafer fabrication facility in Mie, Japan. As of March 31, 2007, we had completed the unsecured advance payments. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and third quarter of fiscal 2007, we entered into amendments (Amendments) to the Agreement, prior to which our $125.0 million advance was to be cred ited against the purchase price of 300mm wafers received from Fujitsu. The Amendments permitted us to also credit the advance against the purchase price of 200mm wafers and other services (collectively, wafer credits and other services are referred to as advance credits), including engineering mask set charges. Under the terms of a letter agreement between the Company and Fujitsu, Fujitsu agreed to repay in cash to the Company $60.0 million, plus interest, which was received in fiscal 2009 on the outstanding portion of the Advance Payment made by us to Fujitsu under the terms of the Agreement. In addition, we received the remaining advance of approximately $11.5 million in the form of advance credits, including engineering mask set charges, as of the end of the third quarter of the Company's fiscal 2010. All other terms and conditions of the Agreement remained in full force and effect until repayment of the Advance Payment was received in full. Employees At January 1, 2011 , we had 749 full -time employees. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled technical and management personnel. No employee is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced a work stoppage and consider our employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following individuals currently serve as our executive officers: Name Age Position Darin G. Billerbeck 51 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Michael G. Potter 44 Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Byron W. Milstead 54 Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Christopher M. Fanning 48 Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Low Density Solutions & Mixed Signal Solutions Sean Riley 42 Corporate Vice President and General Manager, High Density Solutions Darin G. Billerbeck joined the Company as President and Chief Executive Officer on November 8, 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Billerbeck served as the Chief Executive Officer of Zilog, a microcontroller manufacturer, which was acquired by IXYS Corporation in February 2010. Prior to joining Zilog in January 2007, Mr. Billerbeck served 18 years in various executive and management positions at Intel Corporation, including as Vice President and General Manager of Intel's Flash Products Group from 1999 to 2007. Michael G. Potter joined the Company on February 17, 2009. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Potter served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Neophotonics, Inc. from May 2007 to January 2009. Mr. Potter served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of STATS ChipPac Ltd. from August 2004 to May 2007. Before the merger 11 of STATS and ChipPac in August 2004, Mr. Potter served as Acting Chief Financial Officer of ChipPac, Inc. Mr. Potter also held senior positions at Honeywell International, Inc. and started his career with KPMG Peat Marwick Thorne. Mr. Potter is a member of the Board of Directors for Canadian Solar Inc. Byron W. Milstead joined the Company in May 2008 as Corporate Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Milstead served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Credence Systems Corporation from December 2005 to May 2008. Mr. Milstead served as Vice President and General Counsel of Credence Systems Corporation from November 2000 until December 2005. Prior to joining Credence Systems Corporation, Mr. Milstead practiced law at the Salt Lake City office of Parsons Behle & Latimer and the Portland offices of both Bogle and Gates and Ater Wynne. Christopher M. Fanning joined the Company in 1997 and was promoted to Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Low Density Solutions & Mixed Signal Solutions in 2008. Previously, he managed Lattice's software, intellectual property and technical support businesses as Corporate Vice President, Enterprise Solutions. He also served as Vice President of Strategic Planning. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Fanning was employed by The Boston Consulting Group. Sean Riley joined the Company in September 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Riley was Vice President of Marketing for MathStar from April 2005 to May 2008, a programmable logic startup company. Mr. Riley joined MathStar from Intel Corporation, where he worked from June 1992 to April 2005 in various marketing, engineering and general management roles. Available Information We make available, free of charge through our Investor Relations portion of our website at www.latticesemi.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports and statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You may also ob tain free copies of these materials by contacting our Investor Relations Department at 5555 N.E. Moore Court, Hillsboro, Oregon 97124-6421, telephone (503) 268-8000. Our SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered before making an investment decision relating to our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Global economic conditions and uncertainty, as well as the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses, collectability of accounts receivable and supplier relationships, and ability to access capital markets. Our revenue and gross margin can fluctuate significantly due to downturns in the general economy or the semiconductor industry. These downturns are often severe and prolonged and can result in significant reductions in the demand for PLD and FPGA products in markets in which we compete. Global economic weakness or cyclical downturns have previously resulted from periods of economic recession, reduced access to credit markets, weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, weak end-user demand, excess industry capacity, political instability, terrorist activity, military actions, or general reductions in inventory levels by customers, and may cause a decrease in revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. Such economic conditions had a negative impact on our r esults of operations during much of 2009. Although business conditions improved in 2010, that trend may not continue. In addition, our relationships with our employees and suppliers and ability to access capital markets could be adversely affected. In addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our accounts receivable. Global economic and cyclical downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 12 A downturn in the communications equipment end market could cause a reduction in demand for our products and limit our ability to maintain revenue levels and operating results. The majority of our revenue (approximately 49% of fiscal 2010 rev enue) is derived from customers participating in the communications equipment end market. In addition, during fiscal year 2009, the Company participated in the China 3G telecommunications network build-out by selling products used by two large telecommunication equipment providers (one of which was supported through distribution), which accounted for a combined 19 % of our aggregate revenue. This is primarily due to strength in the wireless segment of the communications end market. For the 2010 fiscal year, the same two large telecommunication equipment providers accounted for a combined 12% of revenue. In the past, a general weakening in demand for programmable logic products from customers in the communications end market has adversely affected our revenue. In addition, telecommunication equipment providers are building networks for 4G networks in which we compete. Any deterioration in the communication end market, our ability to compete for new solutions in future telecommunications solutions (e.g. 4G networks) or reduction in capital spending to support this end market could lead to a reduction in demand for our products which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our customer design-in activity, and thus, future revenue growth is dependent on market acceptance of our new silicon and software design tool products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. Future revenue is inherently uncertain and could impact our ability to manage production or our ability to forecast sales. We face uncertainties relating to the potential impact of customer design-in activity because it is unknown whether any particular customer design-in will ultimately result in sales of significant volume. After a specific customer design-in is obtained, many factors can impact the timing and amount of sales that are ultimately realized. Changes in the competitive position of our technology, the customer's product competitiveness or product strategy, the financial position of the customer, and other factors can impact the timing and amount of sales ultimately realized from any specific customer design-in. We are presently shipping our latest generation FPGA, PLD and Programmable Mixed Signal product families that are critical to our ability to grow our overall revenue. We also plan to continue upgrading our customer design tool products and increase our offerings of intellectual property cores. Our future revenue growth is dependent on customer design-in activity, market acc eptance of our new silicon and software design tool products and the continued market acceptance of our current products. The success of these products is dependent on a variety of specific technical factors including: successful product definition; timely and efficient completion of product design; timely and efficient implementation of wafer manufacturing and assembly processes; product performance; product cost; the quality and reliability of the product; and ease of use. If, due to these or other factors, our new silicon and software products do not achieve market acceptance, or our current products do not mainta in market acceptance, our ability to manage production levels or accurately forecast the future revenue, our operating results may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully compete in the highly competitive semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources. The current level of competition in the pro grammable logic market is high and may increase in the future. We currently compete directly with companies that have licensed our technology or have developed similar products, including Actel Corporation (acquired by Microsemi Corporation in November 2010), Altera Corporation, and Xilinx, Inc. We also compete indirectly with numerous semiconductor companies that offer products based on alternative solutions such as ASIC, ASSP, microcontroller, analog, and digital signal processing (DSP) technologies. These direct and indirect competitors are established, multinational semiconductor companies as well as emerging companies. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our future results will be adversely affected. 13 Our revenue and gross margin, including quarter over quarter, are subject to fluctuations due to many factors which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our operating results, including quarter over quarter, have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate. Consequently, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of analysts and investors. Our revenue and gross margin ma y fluctuate due to product mix, inventory fluctuations at our distributor end customers, market acceptance of new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographical and market-segment pricing strategies, wafer, package and assembly prices and yields, overhead absorption, as well as provisions for warranty and excess and obsolete inventory. We have limited ability to foresee changes or the pace of changes in sales by product classification. In the past we have also experienced periods of decline in sales of our mainstream and mature products. If, in any period, sales of our mature and mainstream products decline and sales of new products do not increase at a rate that is sufficient to counteract this decline, then our total revenue would decline. In addition, as mature products typically generate a higher gross margin than mainstream or new products, a faster than normal decline in sales of mature products could adversely impact our gross margins. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain products, reflecting the effect of competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production lines, costs associated with our customers unplanned demand to build inventory, and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. Further, our ability to predict end customer demand, our customers' end customer demand, and resale of our products by our sell-through distributors is limited. Typically, a significant amount of our revenue comes from turns orders, which are orders placed and filled within the same period. By definition, turns orders are not captured in a backlog measurement at the beginning of a quarter. Accordingly, we cannot use backlog as a reliable measure of predicting revenue. Currently Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited ( " Fujitsu") is our sole source supplier of wafers for our newest FPGA and PLD products. We may be unsuccessful in defining, developing and identifying manufacturing processes for the new programmable logic products required to maintain or expand our business. As a semiconductor company, we operate in a dynamic environment marked by rapid product obsolescence. The programmable logic market is characterized by rapid technology and product evolution. Consequently, our future success depends on our ability to introduce new FPGA, PLD a nd associated software design tool products that meet evolving customer needs while achieving acceptable margins. We are presently shipping our latest generation product families that are critical to our ability to grow our overall revenue. We also plan to continue upgrading our customer design tool products and increase our offerings of intellectual property cores. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner, or if these products or future new products fail to achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be adversely affected. The Company and Fujitsu have entered into agreements pursuant to which Fujitsu manufactures most of our new products on its 130 nanometer, 90 nanometer and 65 nanometer CMOS process technologi es, as well as on 130, 90 and 65 nanometer technologies with embedded flash memory that we have jointly developed with Fujitsu. Fujitsu is our sole source supplier of wafers for our newest FPGA and PLD products. The success of certain of our next generation products is dependent on our ability to successfully partner with Fujitsu or new foundry partners. If for any reason we are unsuccessful in establishing new foundry relationships for our next generation products, our future operating results could be adversely affected. To develop new products and maintain the competitiveness of existing products, we need to migrate to more advanced wafer manufacturing processes that use smaller device geometries. We also may need to use additional fou ndry partners. Because we depend upon foundry partners to provide their facilities and support for our process technology development, we may experience delays in the availability of advanced wafer manufacturing process technologies at existing or new wafer fabrication facilities. As a result, volume production of our advanced process technologies at fabrication facilities may not be achieved. This could adversely affect our operating results. The introduction of new silicon and software design tool products in a dynamic market environment presents significant business challenges. Product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The market acceptance of new products depends on accurate projec tions of long-term customer demand, which by their nature are uncertain. In order to secure new or additional wafer supply, we may from time to time consider various financial arrangements including equity investments, advance purchase payments, loans, or similar arrangements with independent wafer manufacturers in exchange for committed wafer capacity. To the extent that we pursue any such additional financing 14 arrangements, additional debt or equity financing may be required. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be availab le when needed or, if available, will be on favorable terms. Any future equity financing will decrease existing stockholders equity percentage ownership and may, depending on the price at which the equity is sold, result in dilution. Export sales, primarily to the Asia Pacific region, account for the majority of our revenue and may decline in the future due to economic and governmental uncertainties. We derive the majority of our revenue from export sales. Accor dingly, if we experience a decline in export sales, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our export sales are subject to numerous risks, including: changes in local economic conditions; exchange rate volatility; governmental stimulus packages, controls and trade restrictions; export license requirements and restrictions on the export of technology; political instability, war, terrorism or pandemic disease; changes in tax rates, tariffs or freight rates; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; longer receivable collection periods; natural or man-made disasters in the countries where we sell our products; interruptions in transportation; different labor regulations; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales offi ces. We depend on distributors, primarily those that use the sell-through distribution model, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. The failure of our distributors to sell our products and otherwise perform as expected could materially reduce our future sales. We rely heavily on our distribution partners to sell our products to end customers, generate a majority of our sales, complete order fulfillment and stock our products. Our distributors also help us to provide technical support and other value-added services to end customers. During fiscal 2009, the Company embarked on a program to restructure its distribution channels, primarily in the Asia Pacific region, from a sell-in to a sell-through distribution model. The sell-in distribution model allows the Company to recognize revenue upon shipment to the distributor. In the sell-through distribution model, distributors have price protection and rights of return on unsold merchandise. Consequently, revenue is recognized upon resale to an end customer. We expect that the majority of our revenue in fiscal 2011 will be reported resale by our sell-through distributors. We depend on the timeliness and accuracy of these resale reports from o ur distributors; late or inaccurate resale reports could have a detrimental effect on our ability to recognize revenue and our ability to predict future sales. In addition, our distribution channels recently have experienced consolidation due to merger and acquisition activity in that business sector. Consolidation may result in our distributors allocating fewer resources to the distribution and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our primary sell-through distributors, Arrow Electronics, Inc., including Nu Horizons Electronics Corp., (a wholly owned subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc. USA), Avnet, Inc., and Weikeng (International and Industrial) Co. LTD made up 49%, 34% and 28 % of total revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At times, our sales are concentrated in a small number of distributors, which are in various international locations and of various financial strength. Financial difficulties, inability to access capital markets, or other reasons, may affect our distributors performance, which could materially harm our business and our operating results. Additionally, any reduction in sales efforts, failure to provide good customer service or any other failure to perform by our distributors as expected, could materially reduce our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income. We generally warrant our products for varying lengths of time against non-conformance to our specifications and certain other defects. Because our products, including hardware, software and intellectual property cores, are highly complex and increasingly incorporate advanced technology, our quality assurance programs may not detect all defects, whether manufacturing defects in individual products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments. Inability to detect a defect could result in increased engineering expenses necessary to remediate the defect and also result in increased costs due to inventory impairment charges. On occasion we have also repaired or replaced certain components or made software fixes or 15 refunded the purchase price or license fee paid by our customers due to product or software defects. If there are material increases in product defects, the costs to remediate such defects, net of reimbursed amounts from our vendors, if any, or to resolve warranty claims compared with our historical experience, may adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and net income. If our foundry partners experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available for sale and our revenue or gross margin could be adversely affected. We depend on our foundry partners to deliver high quality silicon wafers with acceptable yields in a timely manner consistent with our safety stock inventory level and production plan. As is common in our industry, we have experienced wafer yield problems and delivery delays. The reliable manufacture of high performance programmable logic devices is a complicated and technically demanding process requiring: a high degree of technical skill; state-of-the-art equipment; the availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers and ultra-pure metals; the absence of defects in production wafers; the elimination of minute impurities and errors in each step of the fabrication process; and effective cooperation between the wafer supplier and us. As a result, our foundry partners may periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels when manufacturing our silicon wafers. If our foundry partners are unable for a prolonged period to produce silicon wafers that meet our specifications with acceptable yields, or we do not have adequate safety stock in times of delivery delays, our operating results could be adversely affected. If our assembly and test supply contractors experience quality or yield problems, we may face a shortage of products available f or sale. We rely on contractors to assemble and test our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. As is common in our industry, we have experienced quality and yield problems in the past. The majority of our revenue is derived from semiconductor devices assembled in advanced packages. The assembly of advanced packages is a complex process requiring: a high degree of technical skill; state-of-the-art equipment; the absence of defects in assembly and packaging manufacturing; the elimination of raw material impurities and errors in each step of the process; and effective cooperation between the assembly contractor and us. As a result, our contractors may experience difficulties in achieving acceptable quality and yield levels when assembling and testing our semiconductor devices. If we experience prolonged quality or yield problems in the future and we do not have adequate levels of safety stock inventory on-hand, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our financial results and competitive position may suffer. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Claims allowed on any of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Patents issued to us also may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Finally, our competitors may develop competing technologies. If any of these events occur, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Companies in the semiconductor industry vigorously pursue and defend their intellectual property rights. We may be forced to pursue legal action to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in protracted intellectual property disputes or litigation we may be forced to use substantial financial and management resources, which could have an adverse affect on our operating results. 16 We face a number of patent infringement claims and may be subject to other intellectual property disputes, which could require us to spend a significant sum to defend and could cause losses. Our industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding patents and other intellectual property rights of others. We have been, and from time to time expect to be, notified of claims that we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. For instance, we are exposed to certain as serted and unasserted potential claims, including the pending patent litigation brought against us by Lizy K. John, Stragent and SeeSaw, Intellitech and Intellectual Ventures I LLC and Intellectual Ventures II LLC, as described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, above. If any third party makes a valid claim against us, we could face significant liability and could be required to make material changes to our products and processes. In response to any claims of infringement, there can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully defend against the claims. Any such litigation could result in a substantial diversion of our efforts and the use of substantial management and financial resources, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may seek licenses under patents that we are alleged to be infringing; however, we may not be able to obtain a license on favorable terms, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our wafer supply, which is sourced entirely from the Asia Pacific region, could be interrupted, could experience increased costs or could be reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale or increased costs. We do not manufacture finished silicon wafers and most of our products, including all of our newest products, are manufactured by a sole source. Currently, our silicon wafers are manufactured by Fujitsu in Japan, Seiko Epson Corporation in Japan, United Microele ctronics Corporation in Taiwan and GLOBALFOUNDRIES in Singapore. If any of our current or future foundry partners significantly interrupts or reduces our wafer supply, increases wafer costs, or if any of our relationships with our partner suppliers are terminated, our operating results could be adversely affected. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining wafers and in securing supply commitments from our foundry partners. At present, we anticipate that our supply commitments are adequate. However, these existing supply commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our supply commitments, we may still have difficulty in obtaining wafer deliveries consistent with the supply commitments. We negotiate wafer prices and supply commitments from our suppliers on at least an annual basis. If any of our foundry partners were to reduce its supply commitment or increase its wafer prices, and we cannot find alternative sources of wafer supply, our operating results could be adversely affected. Many other factors that could disrupt our wafer supply are beyond our control. Since worldwide manufacturing capacity (and that of Fujitsu) for silicon wafers is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide (or our own) increases in overall wafer demand or interruptions in wafer supply, or periods of increased wafer prices. During periods of economic uncertainty, our foundry partners may reduce or restructure their operations which may also affect the availability and price of wafers, and adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our foundry partners foundry operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our wafer supply and could adversely affect our operating results. Our supply of assembled and tested products, all from the Asia Pacific region, could be interrupted or reduced, which may result in a shortage of products available for sale. We do not assemble our finished products or perform all testing of our products. Our finished silicon wafers are assembled and tested by independent contractors located in Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and South Korea. Economic, financial, social and political conditions in Asia have historically been volatile. Financial difficulties, the effects of currency fluctuation, governmental actions or restrictions, prolonged work stoppages, political unrest, war, natural disaster, disease or any other difficulties experienced by our suppliers may disrupt our supply and could adversely affect our operating results. In the past, we have experienced delays in obtaining assembled and tested products and in securing assembly and test capacity commitments from our suppliers. At present, we anticipate that our assembly and test capacity commitments are adequate; however, these existing commitments may not be sufficient for us to satisfy customer demand in future periods. Additionally, notwithstanding our assembly and test capacity commitments, we may still have difficulty in obtaining deliveries of finished products consistent with the capacity commitments. We negotiate assembly and test prices and capacity commitments from our contractors on a periodic basis. If any of our assembly or test contractors were to reduce its capacity commitment or increase its prices, and we cannot find alternative sources, our operating results could be adversely affected. 17 Many other factors that could disrupt our supply of finished products are beyond our control. Because worldwide capacity for assembly and testing of semiconductor products is limited and inelastic, we could be harmed by significant industry-wide increases in overall demand or interruptions in supply. The assembly of complex packages requires a consistent supply of a variety of raw materials such as substrates, lead frames and mold compound. The worldwide manufacturing capacity for these materials is also l imited and inelastic. A significant industry-wide increase in demand, or interruptions in the supply of these materials to our assembly or test contractors, could adversely effect our operating results. Additionally, a future disruption of any of our assembly or test contractors operations as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our supply of assembled and tested devices and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our quarterly revenue levels may be affected to a significant extent by our ability to match inventory and current production mix with the product mix req uired to fulfill orders. The large number of individual parts we sell and the large number of customers for our products, combined with limitations on our and our customers ability to forecast orders accurately and our relatively lengthy manufacturing cycles, may make it difficult to achieve a match of inventory on hand, production units, and shippable orders sufficient to realize quarterly or annual revenue projections. We may experience a disruption of our business activities due to the transition to a new Chief Executive Officer. On October 12, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors announced the appointment of Darin G. Billerbeck as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, effective November 8, 2010. We may experience disruption in our business activities as we transition to a new chief executive officer, and our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers could be adversely affected by these disruptions. In addition, our competitors may seek to use this transition and the related potential disruptions to gain a competitive advantage over us. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel and in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. We may fail to retain or attract the specialized technical and management personnel required to successfully operate our business. To a greater degree than most non-technology companies or larger technology companies, our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. As a mid-sized company, we are particularly dependent on a relatively small group of ke y employees. Competition for skilled technical and management employees is intense within our industry. As a result, we may not be able to retain our existing key technical and management personnel. In addition, we may not be able to attract additional qualified employees in the future. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or are unable to hire new qualified employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. We recently implemented a new enterprise-wide financial reporting system which may cause operating or reporting disruptions. In fiscal 2009, the Company initiated the implementation of an enterprise-wide financial reporting (ERP) system to improve processes, enhance the access and timeliness of critical business information and strengthen controls throughout the Company. We converted to this new system in October 2010. Many companies have experienced operating or reporting disruptions when converting to a new ERP system, including limitations on a companys ability to deliver and bill for customer shipments, maintain current and complete books and records, maintain an effective internal control environment and meet external reporting deadlines. While we have not yet experienced any significant disruptions to our business, we may encounter some unexpected aspects of the conversion that cause difficulty in the new reporting system which could adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations and cash flows. We depend upon a third party to provide inventory management, order fulfillment, and direct sales logistics. We rely on a third party vendor located in Singapore to provide cost-effective and efficient supply chain services. Among other activities, these outsourced services relate to direct sales logistics, including order fulfillment, inventory management and warehousing, and distribution of inventory to third party distributors. If our third party supply chain partner were to discontinue services for us or its operations are disrupted as a result of a fire, earthquake, act of terrorism, political unrest, governmental uncertainty, war, disease or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our ability to fulfill direct sales orders and distribute inventory timely, cost effectively, or at all, would be hindered, which could adversely affect our business. 18 If our independent software and hardware de velopers and suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our contractual requirements, we may face a delay or shortage of the introduction of new products, or the support of existing products. We rely on independent software and hardware developers for the design, development, supply and support of IP cores, design and development software, and certain elements of evaluation boards. As a result, failure or significant delay to complete software or hardware under contract to deliver could disrupt the release of or introduction of new products, which might be detrimental to the capability of our new products to win designs. Any of these delays or inability to complete the design or development could have an adverse effect on our business, fin ancial condition, or operating results. Our entire long-term marketable securities portfolio is invested in auction rate securities, which at the time of purchase were investment grade and acquired within the guidelines of our then current investment policy. Subsequent to purchase, these auction rate securities were the subject of multiple failed auctions, which adversely affected their liquidity. If auction rate securities continue to experience unsuccessful auctions, or if the credit rating of the auction rate security or auction rate security issuer deteriorates, we may in the future be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction rate security through impairment charges, and any of these events could have a materially detrimen tal effect on our liquidity and results of operations. At January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 , the Company held auction rate securities with a par value of $11.6 million and $24.1 million, respectively. The Company intends to sell its auction rate securities as markets for these securities resume or reasonable offers become available. At January 1, 2011 , due to continued multiple failed auctions and a determination of illiquidity, the $11.6 million par value of auction rate securities held by the Company had an estimated fair value of $10.2 million and are classified as Long-term marketable securities. These auction rate securities are exposed to risks associated with student loan asset-backed notes. Such loans are insured by the federal government or guaranteed by the Federal Family Educational Loan Program. If we were to liquidate our position in these securities, the amount realized could be materially different than the estimated fair value amounts at which we are carrying these securities and there could be a materially detrimental effect on our financial results. An acquisition may harm our business, financial condition or operating results. We have made acquisitions in the past to execute on our business strategy which create uncertainty to our future operating results and cash flows. We may acquire products, technologies or businesses from third parties. An acquisition will require considerable management time, may divert time away from operations, require substantial cash resources, require us to incur or assume debt, and involve the issuance of the Companys equity securities. The success of any acquisition requires the integration of products, technologies, personnel and administrative resources, and could result in departures of key personnel, equity dilution or acquisition of unknown liabilities. As a result, an acquisition could disrupt our operations and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may have failed to adequately insure against certain risks, and, as a result, our financial condition and results may be adversely affected. We carry insurance customary for companies in our industry, including, but not limited to, liability, property and casualty, worker's compensation and business interruption insurance. We also insure our employees for basic medical expenses. In addition, we have insurance contracts that provide director and officer liability coverage for our directors and officers. Other than the specific areas mentioned above, w e are self-insured with respect to most other risks and exposures, and the insurance we carry in many cases is subject to a significant policy deductible or other limitation before coverage applies. Based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure against certain risks than to incur the insurance premium costs. The risks and exposures for which we self-insure include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, theft, patent infringement and some employment practice matters. Should there be a catastrophic loss due to an uninsured event such as an earthquake or a loss due to adverse occurrences in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. Our corporate headquarters consists of land and 189,000 square feet of buildings we own in Hillsboro, Oregon. A portion of undeveloped land near the corporate headquarters is currently owned by the Company but listed for sale. In Shanghai, China, we own an 18,869 square foot research and development facility and lease an additional 6,481 square foot research and development facility. We currently lease a 66,350 square foot research and development facility in San Jose, California through December 2013. We also currently lease a 6,400 square foot research and development facility in Illinois through August 2012, and a 20,000 square foot research and development facility in Pennsylvania through September 2014. In addition, we lease a 4,200 square foot facility in Singapore, with a term through February 2013, primarily to support supply chain activities. In October 2010, we completed a lease agreement for a 5,296 square foot research and development facility in Bangalore, India with a term through October 2012. We also lease office facilities in multiple metropolitan locations for our domestic and international sales staff. We believe that our existing facilities are suitable and adequate for our current and foreseeable future needs. Additionally, we lease a 25,000 square foot facility in Austin, Texas through December 2011. As part of our 2005 restructuring plan (see discussion under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operat ions) in December 2005, we ceased our research and development operations in this location, and have subleased the Austin facility through the end of 2011. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. On June 11, 2007, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by Lizy K. John (John) against Lattice Semiconductor Corporation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division. John seeks an injunction, unspecified damages, and attorneys' fees a nd expenses. The Company filed a request for re-examination of the patent by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO), which was granted by the PTO, and the re-examination is in progress. The litigation has been stayed pending the results of the re-examination. At this stage of the proceedings, we do not have an estimate of the likelihood or the amount of any potential exposure to us. On April 30, 2010, Stragent, LLC (Stragent), a non-practicing entity, and its alleged assignee Seesaw Foundation (Seesaw), filed a patent infringement lawsuit against the Company and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, seeking unspecified damages. At this stage of the proceedings, we do not have an estimate of the likelihood or the amount of any potential exposure to us. On July 20, 2010, Intellitech Corporation (Intellitech) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against the Company, Altera Corporation and Xilinx, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking unspecified damages. At this stage of the proceedings, we do not have an estimate of the likelihood or the amount of any potential exposure to us. On December 8, 2010, Intellectual Ventures I LLC and Intellectual Ventures II LLC (Intellectual Ventures) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against the Company, Altera Corporation and Microsemi Corporation in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking unspecified damages. At this stage of the proceedings, we do not have an estimate of the likelihood or the amount of any potential exposure to us. We are also exposed to certain other asserted and unasserted potential claims. There can be no assurance that, with respect to potential claims made against us, we could resolve such claims under terms and conditions that would not have a material adverse effect on our business, our liquidity or our finan cial results. Item 4. [Removed and Reserved] 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters & Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information As of January 1, 2011, our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol LSCC&rdqu o;. For 2010 and 2009 our stock traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. The following table sets forth the low and high intraday sale prices for our common stock for the last two fiscal years, as reported by NASDAQ. Low High 2010: First Quarter $ 2.41 $ 3.80 Second Quarter 3.69 5.97 Third Quarter 4.11 6.02 &nbsp ;Fourth Quarter 4.24 6.17 2009: First Quarter $ 1.06 $ 1.74 Second Quarter 1.38 2.26 Third Quarter 1.66 2.71 Fourth Quarter 1.87 3.00 Holders As of March 10, 2011, we had approximately 402 stoc kholders of record. Dividends The payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors. We intend to retain earnings to finance the growth of our business. We have never paid cash dividends. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Program Maximum Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program November 28, 2010 through Janaury 1, 2011 371,090 $ 5.31 371,090 $ 18,029,000 Total 371,090 $ 5.31 371,090 $ 18,029,000 On October 21, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $20.0 million of the Company's common stock over the next twelve months from adoption. In connection with the new stock repurchase program, we entered into a 10b5-1 plan. During fiscal 2010, approximately 371,000 shares were repurchased for $2.0 million all of which were open market transactions and were funded from available working capital. All repurchased shares under this program were retired in January 2011. How much common stock will be repurchased in the future will depend on market conditions, including the price of the common stock. 21 On December 13, 2008, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to which up to $20.0 million of outstanding common stock could have been repurchased. In connection with the stock repurchase program, we entered into a 10b5-1 plan. The duration of the repurchase program was twelve months from adoption, and expired on December 13, 2009. During fiscal 2009, approximately 263,000 shares were repurchased for $0.3 million, all of which were open market transactions and were funded from available working capital. All shares repurchased under this program were retired in 2010. Comparison of Total Cumulative Stockholder Return The following graph shows the five-year comparison of cumulative stockholder return on our common stock, the Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500 Index and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index (SOX) from December 2005 through December 2010 . Cumulative stockholder return assumes $100 invested at the beginning of the period in our common stock, the S&P 500 and SOX. Historical stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock p rice performance. Lattice Cumulative Stockholder Return 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Year Ended January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 December 29, 2007 December 30, 2006 (in thousands, except per share data) STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA: Revenue $ 297,768 $ 194,420 $ 222,262 $ 228,709 $ 245,459 Costs and expenses: Cost of products sold 117,943 90,077 102,831 103,157 106,727 Research and development 60,326 56,133 68,610 82,977 81,968 Selling, general and administrative 64,359 52,545 58,680 td> 58,485 58,450 Impairment loss on goodwill 223,556 Amortization of intangible assets 228 5,587 9,832 10,806 Restructuring charges 11 3,689 6,789 2,372 311 242,639 202,672 242,497 480,379 258,262 Income (loss) from operations 55,129 (8,252 ) (20,235 ) (251,6 70 ) (12,803 ) Other income (expense), net 2,474 1,812 (17,791 ) 12,540 td> 16,951 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 57,603 (6,440 ) (38,026 ) (239,130 ) 4,148 Provision for income taxes 531 517 180 686 1,055 Net income (loss) $ 57,072 $ (6,957 ) $ (38,206 ) $ (239,816 ) $ 3,093 Basic net income (loss) per share $ 0.49 &nbs p; $ (0.06 ) $ (0.33 ) $ (2.09 ) $ 0.03 Diluted net income (loss) per share $ 0.48 $ (0.06 ) $ (0.33 ) $ (2.09 ) $ 0.03 Shares used in per share calculations: Basic 116,726 115,384 115,291 114,915 114,188 Diluted 120,143 115,384 115,291 114,915 115,019 div> At January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 December 29, 2007 December 30, 2006 (in thousands) BALANCE SHEET DATA: div> Cash, cash equivalents and Short-term marketable securities $ 238,220 $ 164,540 $ 65,909 $ 85,063 &nbs p; $ 233,208 Total assets font> $ 377,687 $ 296,557 $ 291,936 $ 376,285 $ 725,906 Convertible notes $ $ $ $ 40,000 $ 109,600 Stockholders' equity $ 318,722 $ 253,360 $ 254,939 $ 286,232 $ 511,745 _______________ At December 29, 2007, the estimated fair value of the Company was below book value. Therefore, the Company performed an impairment test on Goodwill in accordance with ASC 350. We calculated the impairment loss based on an allocation of the fair value of the Company's equity to the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation in a business combination. Fair value was based on two primary valuation methodologies: the income approach, which used the discounted cash flow method, and the market approach, which used the market capitalization method. In the allocation, goodwill was determined to have no implied fair value, and, as a result, goodwill related to the acquisition of Vantis Corporation on June 15, 1999, the acquisition of Integrated Intellectual Properties, Inc. on March 16, 2001, and the acquisition of the FPGA business of Agere Systems, Inc. on January 18, 2002 totaling $223.6 million was written off and recorded as an Impairment loss on goodwill. As a result, we no longer have Goodwill recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 23 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview Lattice Semiconductor Corporation (Lattice or the Company) designs, develops and markets high performance programmable logic products and related software. Programmable logic products are widely used semiconductor components that can be configured by the end customer as specific logic circuits, and enable the end customer to shorten design cycle times and reduce development costs. Within the programmable logic market there are two groups of products - programmable logic devices (PLD) and field programmable gate arrays (FPGA) - each representing a distinct silicon architectural approach. Products based on the two alternative programmable logic architectures are generally optimal for different types of logic functions, although many logic functions can be implemented using either architecture. We believe that a substantial portion of programmable logic customers utilize both PLD and FPGA architectures. Our end customers are primarily original equipment manufacturers in the communications, computing, industrial, consumer, automotive, medical and military end markets. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to the portrayal of a company's financial condition and results and require management's most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. A description of our critical accounting policies follows. Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and classification of assets, such as marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventory and deferred income taxes and liabilities, such as accrued liabilities (including restructuring charges), income taxes and deferred income and allowances on sales to sell-through distributors, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the fiscal periods presented. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Income. Revenue from sales to customers is recognized upon shipment, or in the case of sales by our sell-through distributors, at the time of reported resale, provided that persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, there are no customer remaining acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. We sell our products directly to end customers or through a network of independent manufacturers' representatives and indirectly through a network of independent sell-in and sell-through distributors. Distributor s provide us periodic data regarding the product, price, quantity, and end customer when products are resold as well as the quantities of our products they still have in stock. We must use estimates and apply judgment to reconcile sell-through distributors' reported inventories to their activities. Any error in our judgment could lead to inaccurate reporting of our Revenue, Cost of products sold, Deferred income and allowances on sales to sell-through distributors, and Net income (loss). At the time of shipment to a sell-through distributor amounts are invoiced at published list price. The final price is set at the time of resale and is determined in accordance with a distributor price agreement. Amounts invoiced are recorded in Accounts receivable, net and inventory i s transferred from Inventories to Deferred income and allowances on sales to sell-through distributors. Revenue and cost of products sold to sell-through distributors are deferred until either the product is resold by the distributor or, in certain cases, return privileges terminate, at which time Revenue and Cost of products sold are reflected in Net income (loss). Our estimate of inventory valued at published list price and held by sell-through distributors with right of return totaled $50.1 million and $31.7 million at January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 , respectively. Distributor advances totaled $26.8 million and $16.5 million at January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 , respectively and are recorded in Deferred in come and allowances to sell-through distributors. Deferred costs of sales related to inventory held by sell-through distributors totaled $7.6 million and $5.0 million at January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 , respectively. During fiscal 2009, the Company embarked on a program to restructure our distribution channels primarily in the Asia Pacific region, from a sell-in to a sell-through distribution model. As a result, the majority of our revenue in fiscal 2010 was from reported resale from our sell-through distributors. Resale of product by sell-through distributors as a percentage of our total revenue was 56%, 38% and 33% in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenue from software licensing was not material for the periods presented. Fair Value of Financial Instruments. We invest in various financial instruments including corporate and government bonds, notes, commercial paper and auction rate securities. The Company values these instruments at their fai r value and monitors its portfolio for impairment on a periodic basis. In the event that the carrying value of an investment exceeds its fair 24 value and the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary, the Company records an impairment charge and establishes a new carrying value. We assess other-than-temporary impairment of marketable securities in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures". The framework under the provisions of ASC 820 establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value. Each level of input has different levels of subjectivity and difficulty involved in determining fair value. Level 1 instruments generally represent quoted prices in active markets. Therefore, determining fair value for Level 1 instruments generally does not require significant management judgment, and the estimation is not difficult. Level 2 instruments include inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices for identical instruments in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 instruments include unobservabl e inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The determination of fair value for Level 3 instruments requires the most management judgment and subjectivity. Inventory. We value inventory at the lower of cost or market. In addition, we write down unproven, excess and obsolete inventories to net realizable value. To value our inventory, we make a number of estimates and assumptions including market and economic conditions, product lifecycles and forecasted demand for our products. To the extent actual results differ from the se estimates and assumptions, the balances of reported inventory and cost of products sold will change accordingly. Long-Lived Assets. We review our long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, in accordance with ASC 360, Property, Plant and Equipment", which requires us to review the impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment is determined by comparing the estimated undiscounted cash flows to the carrying amount. A loss is recorded if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flow for the difference between carrying value and fair value. Restructuring Charges . Expenses associated with exit or disposal activities are recognized when incurred under ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations, for everything but severance. Because the Company has a history of paying severance benefits, the cost of severance benefits associated with a restructuring charge is recorded when such costs are probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated in accordance with ASC 712, Compensation - Nonretirement Postemployme nt Benefits. For leased facilities that are vacated, an amount equal to the total future lease obligations from the date of vacating the premises through the expiration of the lease, net of any future sublease income, is recorded as a part of restructuring charges. Accounting for Income Taxes . To report income tax expense related to operating results, we record current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. In determining the value of our deferred tax assets, we make estimates of future taxable income. At the end of fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we have re corded full valuation allowances for all of our U.S. deferred tax assets due to uncertainties regarding their realization. We have not recognized a valuation allowance against our foreign deferred tax assets as we believe it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. We recognize uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, We recognize estimated interest and penalties that would be assessed in relation to the estimated settlement value of uncertain tax positions in the Provision for income taxes. 25 Stock-Based Compensation . We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of substantially all share-based awards consistent with the provisions of ASC 718. Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected volatility, expecte d term, expected dividend rate, and expected risk-free rate of return. The assumptions for expected volatility and expected term are the two assumptions that significantly affect the grant date fair value. Restricted stock unit grants are part of the Company's equity compensation practices for employees who receive equity grants. The restricted stock units granted to employees generally vest quarterly over a four-year period beginning on the grant date. Re sults of operations Key elements of our Consolidated Statements of Operations were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 Revenue $ 297,768 100.0 % $ 194,420 100.0 % $ 22 2,262 100.0 % Gross margin 179,825 60.4 104,343 53.7 119,431 &n bsp; 53.8 Research and development 60,326 20.3 56,133 28.9 68,610 30.9 Selling, general and administrative 64,359 21.6 52,545 27.0 58,680 26.4 Amortization of intangible assets 228 0.1 5,587 2.5 Restructuring charges 11 0.0 3,689 1.9 6,789 3.1 Income (loss) from operations $ 55,129 18.5 % $ (8,252 ) 4.2 % $ (20,235 ) (9.1 )% Revenue Revenue in fiscal 2010 increased to $297.8 million as compared to $194.4 million in fiscal 2009. Revenue increased across all product lines, end markets, and product classifications. Revenue in fiscal 2009 decreased to $194.4 million as compared to $222.3 million in fiscal 2008 primarily due to a reduction in revenue from Mature and Mainstream products, partially offset by an increase in revenue from New products. The communications end market accounted for approximately 49% , 56% and 54% of our total revenue in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Accordingly, a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on the health of this end market. Forecasting future revenue is particularly challenging as revenue growth is dependent on overall economic conditions for our industry and market acceptance of our new products. Revenue by Product Line The revenue increase for FPGA and PLD in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 was primarily related to units sold for both pro duct line categories driven by demand for our New products. There was a 16% increase for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 in FPGA units sold primarily driven by an increase in demand for our FPGA New products. PLD revenue decreased in fiscal 2009, when compared to fiscal 2008 due to a decline in units sold, primarily related to Mature and Mainstream products, partially offset by an increase in average selling prices. 26 The composition of our revenue by product line for fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 was as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 FPGA $ 97,089 33 % $ 64,564 33 % $ 57,853 26 % PLD 200,679 67 % 129,856 67 % 164,409 74 % Total revenue $ 297,768 100 % $ 194,420 100 % $ 222,262 100 % Revenue by End Market The global communications end market accounted for approximately 49% , 56% and 54% of our revenue for fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Our revenue for this end market is largely dependent on five large telecommunications equipment providers, however, singularly none exceeded 10% in fiscal 2010 and 2008, and one of which accounted for approximately 11% of fiscal 2009 revenue although it resulted from sell-through resale by one of our distributors. We expect that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to be dependent on the health of the communications end market. The composition of our revenue by end market for fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 was as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 Communications $ 146,607 49 % $ 108,780 56 % $ 119,370 54 % Industrial and other 75,667 25 % 37,248 19 % 52,346 23 % Computing 42,969 15 % 27,086 14 % td> 27,004 12 % Consumer 32,525 11 % 21,306 11 % 23,542 11 % Total revenue $ 297,768 100 % $ 194,420 100 % $ 222,262 100 % Revenue by Product Classification Revenue for New products increased 91% for fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009, and 77% for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily as a result of increased unit sales. Revenue from Mainstream products increased 33% for 2010 but decreased 28% for fiscal 2009 primarily related to an increase and decrease in unit sales, respectively. Mature product revenue increased 35% in fiscal 2010 and decreased 34% for fiscal 2009 primarily related to an increase and decrease in unit sales, respectively. 27 The composition of our revenue by product classification for fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 was as follo ws (dollars in thousands): Year Ended January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 New* $ 126,648 43 % div> $ 66,294 34 % $ 37,395 17 % Mainstream* 98,413 33 % 74,218 38 % 103,055 46 % Mature* 72,707 24 % 53,908 28 % 81,812 37 % Total revenue $ 297,768 100 % $ 194,420 100 % $ 222,262 100 % ___________ * Product classification New: LatticeECP3, LatticeXP2, LatticeECP2/M, MachXO, Power Manager II, ispClockA/D/S, ispMACH 4000ZE Mainstream: ispXPLD, ispGDX2, ispMACH 4000/Z, ispXPGA, LatticeSC, LatticeECP, LatticeXP, ispClock, Power Manager I, Software and IP Mature: FPSC, ORCA 2, ORCA 3, ORCA 4, ispPAC, ispLSI 8000V, ispMACH 5000B, ispMACH 2LV, ispMACH 5LV, ispLSI 2000V, ispLSI 5000V, ispMACH 5000VG, all 5-volt CPLDs, GDX/V, ispMACH 4/LV, all SPLDs * Product categories are modified as appropriate relative to our portfolio of products and the generation within each major product family. New products consist of our latest generation of products, while Mainstream and Mature are older or based on unique late stage customer-based production needs. Generally, product categories are adjusted every two to three years, at which time prior periods are reclassified to conform to the new categorization. In fiscal 2010 we reclassified our New, Mainstream and Mature product categories to better reflect our current product portfolio. Revenue by Geography The composition of our revenue by geographical location of our direct and indirect customers was as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 Total % Total % Total % United States $ 36,211 12 $ 28,296 &nbsp ; 15 $ 37,817 17 Export revenue: China 124,910 42 83,813 43 62,110 28 Europe 54,332 18 33,389 17 46,411 21 Japan 38,992 13 19,460 10 30,624 14 Taiwan 8,839 3 6,313 3 20,453 9 Other Asia 27,853 10 17,476 9 16,422 7 Other Americas 6,631 2 5,673 3 8,425 4 Total export revenue 261,557 88 166,124 85 184,445 83 Total revenue $ 297,768 100 $ 194,420 100 $ 222,262 100 We assign revenue to geographies based on customer ship-to address at the point where revenue is recognized. In the case of sell-in distributors and OEM customers, revenue is typically recognized, and geography is assigned, when products are shipped to our distributor or customer. In the case of sell-through distributors, revenue is recognized when resale occurs and geography is assigned based on the customer location on the resale reports provided by the distributor. Revenue from export sales as a percentage of total revenue was 88% for fiscal 2010, 85% for fiscal 2009 and 83% for fiscal 2008. Export revenue as a percentage of overall revenue increased in fiscal 2010 compared to 2009 and 2008 due to relatively more favorable business conditions in Asia and a continuing trend towards outsourcing of manufacturing by North American and European customers to Asia. 28 Our largest customers are distributors and have historically made up a significant portion of our total revenue. Revenue attributable to resales of products by Arrow Electronics, Inc., which includes its wholly-owned subsidiary, Nu Horizons Electronics Corp., accounted for approximately 18%, 12% and 14% of revenue in fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Revenue at tributable to resales of products by Avnet, Inc. accounted for approximately 17%, 13% and 14% of revenue in fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Revenue attributable to resales of products by the Weikeng Group (Weikeng Industrial Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and Weikeng International Co. Ltd. (Hong Kong)) accounted for approximately 14%, 9% and 0% of revenue in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales of products to Promaster Technology Corporation accounted for approximately 0%, 1% and 10% of revenue in fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , respectively. Sales of products to ASTI Holdings Ltd. accounted for approximately 0%, 16% and 7% of revenue in fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 , res pectively. No other individual customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue in any of the fiscal years 2010 , 2009 and 2008 . During fiscal 2009, we embarked on a program to restructure our distribution channels, primarily in the Asia Pacific region, from a sell-in to a sell-through distribution model. As a result the majority of our revenue in fiscal 2010 was from resale of our products by sell-through distributors. In connection with this program, we terminated our distribution agreement between the Company and Promaster Technology Corporation on July 2, 2009, between the Company and Dragon Technology Distribution and FE Global Electronics effective for various territories on February 1 and February 6, 2010, respectively, and between the Company and other distributors effective on various dates. Dragon Technology Distribution and FE Global Electronics are wholly-owned subsidiaries of ASTI Holdings Ltd. Additionally, we converted in-place distributors in the Asia Pacific region and Europe from a sell-in to a sell-through model. As a result, we estimate that revenue was lower in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 by approximately $2.0 million compared to revenue had we not embarked on this program. Revenue related to resale of our products by sell-thr ough distributors makes up 56% , 38%, and 33% of total revenue for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Gross Margin and Operating Expenses Our gross margin percentage was 60.4% for fiscal 2010, 53.7% for fiscal 2009 and 53.8% for fiscal 2008. The increase in gross margin percentage during fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 was primarily attributed to the significantly higher production volume in fiscal 2010 when compare d to fixed overhead costs charged to Cost of products sold. Additionally, due to the broad based nature of our revenue increase, revenue from our Mature and Mainstream products, which typically carry a higher gross margin than our New product categories, increased during fiscal 2010 . We benefited from the cost reduction actions undertaken in fiscal 2009, primarily lower freight-in costs. We also realized a benefit related to some sales of older, fully reserved products in fiscal 2010. Research and development expense was $60.3 million for fiscal 2010 compared to $56.1 million for fiscal 2009 and $68.6 million for fiscal 2008. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel, masks, engineering wafers, third-party design automation software, assembly tooling and qualification expenses. The increase in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 was related to personnel related costs, primarily accrued bonus costs recorded in connection with the 2010 Cash Incentive Compensation Plan, as well as an increase in outside service costs for engineering development. The decrease in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was primarily a result of a decrease in labor costs as a result of the restructuring plans implemented in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 and the full year effect of the restructuring plan implemented in the third quarter of 2008, offset by an increase in mask and wafer costs. The 2009 and 2008 restructuring plans are further described below. We believe that a continued commitment to research and development is essential to maintain product leadership and provide innovative new product offerings, and therefore we expect to continue to make significant future investments in research and development. As we continue to move to more advanced process technologies such as 65nm, mask and engineering wafer costs are becoming more expensive and will therefore increasingly represent a greater proportion of total research and development expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense was $64.4 million in fiscal 2010, $52.5 million in fiscal 2009 and $58.7 million in fiscal 2008. The increase in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 was primarily a result of an increase in sales commission costs, marketing related costs and accrued bonus costs recorded in connection with the 2010 Cash Incentive Compensation Plan. Selling, general and administrative expense was lower in fiscal 2009 when compared to fiscal 2008 primarily related to a decrease in labor and facility costs as a result of the 2009 and 2008 restructuring plans. Amortization of intangible assets is related to our 2002 acquisition of the FPGA business of Agere Systems, Inc. and of Cerdelinx Technologies, Inc. Amortization expense was $0.0 million in fiscal 2010, $0.2 million in fiscal 2009 a nd $5.6 million in fiscal 2008. Amortization expense in fiscal 2010 and 2009 decreased as a portion of the intangible assets acquired in the Agere and Cerdelinx acquisitions became completely amortized during each fiscal year. 29 The Company implemented restructuring plans during the fiscal years 2005, 2007, 2008 and 2009. Included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and reported as Restructuring charges for fi scal 2010, 2009 and 2008 are charges of less than $0.1 million, $3.7 million and $6.8 million, respectively, primarily resulting from severance and related costs and costs to vacate leased properties under these restructuring plans. On January 31, 2008, Stephen A. Skaggs, then President and Chief Executive Officer and the Company entered into an agreement pursuant to which Mr. Skaggs resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer effective May 31, 2008. The Company recorded and paid approximately $1.0 million in severance and related costs in fiscal 2008. In addition, the terms of Mr. Skaggs' severance agreement allowed for a partial acceleration of vesting of previously awarded stock options. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of $0 .3 million in fiscal 2008 related to the effects of accelerated vesting. Other income (expense), net The following table summarizes the activity in Other income (expense), net (in thousands): Year Ended January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 Interest income $ 998 $ 1,227 $ 4,003 Gain (loss) primarily related to sale or impairment of auction rate securities, net 668 374 (19,715 ) (Loss) on UMC investment (1,225 ) Gain on sale of real estate 720 Gain (loss) on deferred compen sation plan assets and other, net 88 211 (854 ) Total $ 2,474 $ 1,812 $ (17,791 ) The decrease in interest income in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 relates to lower interest rates on invested balances. T he decrease in interest income in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008, was primarily attributable to a decrease in average invested balances as a result of the use of cash for extinguishment of Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Notes due in 2010 (Convertible Notes) and lower interest rates on invested balances. The $0.7 million in Gain (loss) primarily related to sale or impairment of auction rate securities, net, relates primarily to holdings in auction rate securities that are considered illiquid. Provision for income taxes We are paying foreign income taxes, which are reflected in the Provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and are primarily related to the cost of operating an offshore research and development subsidiary and sales subsidiaries. We are not currently paying federal income taxes and do not expect to pay such taxes until the benefits of our tax net operating losses are fully utilized. We expect to pay a nominal amount of state income tax. We accrue interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the Provision for income taxes. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources Financial Condition (Sources and Uses of Cash) Our sources and uses of cash from operating, financing and investing activities were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended January 1, 2011 January 2, 2010 January 3, 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 79,311 $ 98,942 $ 26,383 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (64,394 ) 4,391 32,752 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 3,398 (932 ) (42,799 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 18,315 $ 102,401 $ 16,336 Fiscal 2010 compared to 2009 Operating Activitie s Net cash provided by operating activities was $79.3 million in fiscal 2010, compared to Net cash provided by operating activities of $98.9 million in fiscal 2009, primarily as a result of the receipt of a $60.0 million repayment in fiscal 2009, of the Company's advance payment made to Fujitsu Limited (Fujitsu) in fiscal 2007, while no receipt occurred in fiscal 2010, and a decrease in usage of Fujitsu advance credits from $20.1 million in fiscal 2009 to $11.5 million in usage in fiscal 2010. In addition; net cash used in operations as the result of increased inventory was $11.4 millio n in fiscal 2010 compared to cash provided by operations as the result of a decrease in Inventory of $6.8 million in fiscal 2009. Offsetting these amounts was an increase in cash flow from Net income (loss) due to Net income of $57.1 million in fiscal 2010 compared to a Net loss of $7.0 million in fiscal 2009 and an increase in cash provided by operations due to an increase in Accrued payroll obligations of $6.5 million in fiscal 2010 compared to a decrease of $1.6 million in fiscal 2009. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $64.4 million in fiscal 2010 compared to Net cash provided by investing activities of $4.4 million in fiscal 2009 as purchases of marketable securities exceeded sales of marketable securities and Short-term marketable securities increased by $55.4 million as reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet when fiscal 2010 is compared to fiscal 2009. Capital expenditures increased from $7.0 million in fiscal 2009 to $13.9 million in fiscal 2010. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.4 million for fiscal 2010 compared to Net cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2009 of $0.9 million primarily due to the issuance of common stock of $6.2 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $0.4 million in fiscal 2009, offset by the increase in purchase of treasury stock of $2.0 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $0.3 million in fiscal 2009. Fiscal 2009 compared to 2008 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $98.9 million in fiscal 2009, compared to Net cash provided by operating activities of $26.4 million in fiscal 2008, primarily as a result of the receipt of a $60.0 million repayment in fiscal 2009, of the Company's advance payment made to Fujitsu Limited (Fujitsu) in fiscal 2007, while no repayment was made in fiscal 2008, and in addition to an increased usage of Fujitsu advance credits in fiscal 2009. The net loss reported decreased from $38.2 million in fiscal 2008 to $7.0 million in fiscal 2009. The Company's Accounts payable and accrued expenses provided $7.1 million due to increased purchases and longer payment terms in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 and used $3.8 million in fiscal 2008, primarily related to scheduled vendor payments. Accounts receivable, net, provided $2.9 million in fiscal 2008 and used $7.1 million in fiscal 2009 as a result of billing and collection timing. Inventory provided $6.8 million in fiscal 2009, compared to $7.3 million in fiscal 2008, as the Company continued to manage inventory levels to reflect customer demand. 31 Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities decreased by $28.4 million in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 as purchases of marketable securities decreased due to a shift in our investment policy toward cash equivalents and corporate bonds, notes, and commercial paper in response to the uncertainties in the global credit and capital markets. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased $41.9 million for fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the use of $40.0 million to extinguish Convertible Notes in fiscal 2008, while no extinguishments occurred in fiscal 2009. Liquidity As of January 1, 2011, our principal source of liquidity was $238.2 million of Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term marketable securities, which was approximately $73.7 million more than the balance of $164.5 million at January 2, 2010 . Working capital increased to $271.0 million at January 1, 2011, from $205.5 million at January 2, 2010. We believe that our existing liquid resources and cash expected to be generated from future operations will be adequate to meet our operating and capital req uirements and obligations for at least the next twelve months. We have no long-term debt. At January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 , the Company held auction rate securities with a par value of $11.6 million and $24.1 million, respectively. The Company intends to sell its auction rate securities as markets for these securities resume or reasonable offers become available. At January 1, 2011 , due to continued multiple failed auctions and a determination of illiquidity, the $11.6 million par value of auction rate securities held by the Company had an estimated fair value of $10.2 million and are classified as Long-term marketable securities. These auction rate securities are exposed to risks associated with student loan asset-backed notes. Such loans are insured by the federal government or guaranteed by the Federal Family Educational Loan Program. If we were to liquida te our position in these securities, the amount realized could be materially different than the estimated fair value amounts at which we are carrying these securities and there could be a materially detrimental effect on our financial results. In accordance with ASC 320, InvestmentsDebt and Equity Securities, the Company recorded an unrealized loss of $0.1 million during the year ended January 1, 2011 on certain Short-term marketable securities, which has been recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income. Future fluctuations in fair value related to these instruments that the C ompany deems to be temporary, including any recoveries of previous write-downs, would be recorded to Accumulated other comprehensive income. For the year ended January 1, 2011 , approximately $0.7 million in unrealized gains related to the increase in fair value of auction rate securities were recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income. If the Company were to determine in the future that any further decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, we would record an impairment charge, which could have a materially detrimental impact on our operating results. If we were to liquidate our position in these securities, it is likely that the amount of any future realized gain or loss would be different from the unrealized gain or loss reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income. On October 21, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $20.0 million of the Company's common stock over the next twelve months. In connection with the new stock repurchase program, the Company entered into a 10b5-1 plan. During fiscal 2010, approximately 371,000 shares were repurchased for $2.0 million all of which were open market transactions and were funded from available working capital. All shares repurchased under this program in 2010 were retired in January 2011. How much common stock will be repurchased in the future will depend on market conditions, including the price of the common stock. On December 13, 2008, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to which up to $20.0 million of outstanding common stock could have been repurchased. In connection with the stock repurchase program, we entered into a 10b5-1 plan. The duration of the repurchase program was twelve months, and expired on December 13, 2009. During fiscal 2009, approximately 263,000 shares were repurchased for $0.3 million, all of which were open market transactions and were funded from available working capital. All shares repurchased under this program were retired in 2010. We may in the future seek new or additional sources of funding. In addition, in order to secure additional wafer supply, we may from time to time consider various financial arrangements including equity investments, advance purchase payments, 32 loans, or similar arrangements with independent wafer manufacturers in exchange for committed wafer capacity. To the extent that we pursue any such additional financing arrangements, additional debt or equity financing may be required. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available when needed or, if available, will be on favorable terms. Any future equity financing will decrease existing stockholders ' equity percentage ownership and may, depending on the price at which the equity is sold, result in dilution. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual cash obligations at January 1, 2011 (in thousands): Fiscal year Operating leases(1) Purchase order obligations(2) 2011 $ 3,831 $ 20,168 2012 3,099 2013 2,802 2014 526 2015 39 Thereafter 25 $ 10,322 $ 20,168 _________ (1) Certain of our facilities and equipment are leased under operating leases, which expire at var ious times through 2016. Included in the table above for operating leases is property located in Austin, Texas that was vacated as part of our 2005 restructuring plan. In fiscal 2007, we entered into a sublease agreement for this vacated property. For fiscal 2011, future minimum lease payments, net of such sublease receipts, based on agreements in place at January 1, 2011, total $0.1 million. (2) This column excludes amounts already recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as current or long-term li abilities at January 1, 2011. We also have other liabilities of $7.7 million relating to uncertain tax positions. However, as we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of future payments related to uncertain tax positions, we have excluded this amount from the table above. Our significant operating leases, apart from that accrued for in the 2005 restructuring plan, are for our facilities in San Jose, California, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, Shanghai, China and Downers Grove, Illinois. Our lease in San Jose expires in December 2013 with annual rental costs estimated to be $2.0 million with 3% annual increases. Our lease in Bethlehem expires in September 2014 with annual rental costs estimated to be $0.5 million with 3% annual increases. Our lease in Shanghai expires in May 2011 with remaining rental costs estimated to be $0.2 million. Our lease in Downers Grove expires in August of 2012 with annual rental costs estimated to be $0.2 million. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the non-cancelable lease term or the estimated useful life of the assets. 33 New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force), (ASU 2009-13). ASU 2009-13 provides principles and application guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the arrangement should be separated and the consideration allocated. Additionally, ASU 2009-13 requires an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of selling price, eliminates the residual method and requires an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. This update is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2011 and can be applied prospectively or retrospectively. Adoption is not expected to materially impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows directly when it becomes effective, as the Company will not elect retrospective adoption. However, this update may impact how we reflect multiple-element arrangements entered into subsequent to January 1, 2011, in the financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-14, "Software (Topic 985): Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements," ("ASU 2009-14"). ASU 2009-14 clarifies which revenue allocation and measurement guidance should be used for arrangements that contain both tangible products and software, in cases where the software is more than incidental to the tangible product as a whole. More specifically, if the software sold with or embedded within the tangible product is essential to the functionality of the tangible product, then this software as well as undelivered software elements that relate to this software are excluded from the scope of existing software revenue guidance. This guidance is to be applied prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We are currently assessing the impact of the adoption on its financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements Disclosures, which amends Subtopic 820-10 of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification to require new disclosures for fair value measurements and provides clarification for existing disclosures requirements. More specifically, this update will require (a) an entity to disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements and to describe the reasons for the transfers; and (b) information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements to be presented separately (i.e. present the activity on a gross basis rather than net) in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs). This update clarifies existing disclosure requirements for the level of disaggregation used for classes of assets and liabilities measured at fair value and requires disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs. We do not anticipate that the adoption of this statement will materially expand our consolidated financial statement footnote disclosures. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 1, 2011, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.