Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 1, 2023. In addition, the financial information for the three months ended March 31, 2022 included herein has been restated as more fully described in Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs and that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. See Forward-Looking Statements preceding Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview LegalZoom is a leading online platform for legal and compliance solutions in the United States, or U.S. Our core offerings include business formations, intellectual property and estate planning services, and we have expanded our platform to include professional expertise and other products, both legal and non-legal, to better meet the needs of small businesses. Our unique position at business inception allows us to become a trusted business advisor, supporting the evolving needs of a new business throughout its lifecycle. Along with formations, our services include ongoing compliance and tax advice and filings, virtual mailbox and e-signature solutions, trademark filings, and estate plans. Additionally, we have unique insights into our customers and leverage our product as a channel to introduce small businesses to leading brands in our partner ecosystem, solving even more of their business needs. We operate across all 50 states and over 3,000 counties in the U.S. and have more than 20 years of experience navigating complex regulation and simplifying the legal and compliance process for our customers. Our Business Model and Growth Strategy Our business model is to acquire customers at the time of business formation and then continue to serve their legal, compliance and tax solutions needs over the life of their businesses with our mix of transaction, subscription, and partner offerings. Transaction products include legal documents, business filings, and related services for small business owners and their families, such as business formations, annual compliance filings, intellectual property, estate planning documents, forms, and agreements. Subscription products include compliance solutions and credentialed professional subscription services, including legal and tax advisory and preparation services, as well as additional owned services such as virtual mail and e-signature. We also introduce our customers to a variety of third-party partners, giving them access to critical services they need to start and run their businesses, such as business license services, credit card and banking services, website development, productivity tools, and business insurance, among others. Our strategy is to scale our existing business and gain market share by investing in core products and sales and marketing; integrating our independent attorney network and tax professionals into our core product set; expanding our addressable market; and attracting additional customers and increasing conversion through the introduction of lower-priced products and services. We are innovating our product lineup to target more price-sensitive customer segments and certain of our business formation services are now available nationwide without charge. As we undergo this business model transformation and shift to this freemium strategy, including as we continue to test new products and price points to optimize our lineup, we expect increased volatility across our product offerings. We also aim to grow average revenue per subscription unit, or ARPU, and partnership revenue through building in-house adjacencies and expanding our partner ecosystem to provide new recurring revenue streams. Key Business Metrics In addition to the measures presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, we regularly monitor the following financial and operating metrics to evaluate the growth of our business, measure the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, identify trends, formulate financial forecasts and make strategic decisions. Number of business formations We define the number of business formations in a given period as the number of limited liability company, or LLC, incorporation, not-for-profit and doing business as, or DBA, orders placed on our platform in such period, excluding such orders from our operations in the U.K. We consider the number of business formations to be an important metric considering that it is typically the first product or service small business customers purchase on our platform, creating the foundation for additional products and subsequent subscription and partner revenue as customers adopt additional products and services throughout the lifecycle of their business. We believe that including customers filing DBAs on our platform provides a more accurate representation of the number of newly formed businesses we serve. These transactions are most often completed by sole proprietors who represent potential future transaction and subscription cross-sell opportunities as their businesses mature. 23 Furthermore, we believe our definition of the number of business formations is most closely aligned with U.S. Census reporting of new applications for Employer Identification Numbers, or EINs, which we believe to be the most relevant source of publicly available U.S. market data. The below table sets forth the number of business formations for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Number of business formations 170 129 We experienced a 32% increase in business formation transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our business formation transactions increased during the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily due to an increase in LLC formations driven by our nationwide roll-out of free LLC formations. Our business formation transactions outpaced the 4% increase in overall U.S. business formations during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended in March 31, 2022 based on a review of U.S. Census data revealing new applications for EINs. Number of transactions We define the number of transactions in a given period as gross transaction order volume, prior to refunds, on our platform during such period. Transactions may include one or more services purchased at the same time. For example, a customer of our business formation services may choose to form an LLC and purchase an operating agreement and business licenses at the same time. This constitutes a single transaction. Refunds, or partial refunds, may be issued under certain circumstances pursuant to the terms of our customer satisfaction guarantee. We consider the number of transactions to be an important metric considering that our customers generally begin their LegalZoom journey with a transaction, creating the foundation for generating subsequent subscription and partner revenue. The below table sets forth the number of transactions for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Number of transactions 308 267 We experienced a 15% increase in the number of transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in the number of transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2023 resulted from a 32% increase in business formations due primarily to the nationwide rollout of free LLC formations discussed above. This increase was partially offset by an 11% reduction in estate planning and other consumer transactions and lower volumes in our intellectual property business largely due to the discontinuation of our do-it-yourself trademark product in favor of our attorney-assisted solution in March 2022. Our estate planning and other consumer transactions declined as a percentage of total transactions in the three months ended March 31, 2023. We expect the proportion of estate planning and other consumer transactions to continue to decrease over time, as we focus more of our investment in small business formations, which have a significantly higher average order value. Over the long-term, we expect to continue to grow transactions; however, the growth may fluctuate period-over-period based on the testing and introduction of new products and price points as we seek to optimize our product lineup and the variability of overall business formations and estate planning transactions. Average order value We define average order value for a given period as total transaction revenue divided by total number of transactions in such period. We consider average order value to be an important metric given it indicates how much customers are spending on our platform per transaction. 24 The below table sets forth the average order value for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (Restated) Average order value $ 202 $ 245 Average order value decreased by 18% during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The reduction in average order value for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily driven by a 26% decrease in average order value related to our business formations, as well as decreases in the average order value of our IP and other transactions. The decrease in average order value related to our business formations was due to the nationwide rollout of free LLC formations during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Growth in our average order value may fluctuate period-over-period based on the mix of business formations relative to estate planning and other consumer transactions, the timing of transaction revenue recognition, and our ability to introduce and sell new products. We expect year-over-year growth in average order value to be negative throughout the remainder of 2023 given the nationwide rollout of free LLC formations and as we continue to test and introduce new products and price points in order to optimize our product lineup. Number of subscription units We define the number of subscription units in a given period as the paid subscriptions at the end of such period, including those that are not yet 60 days past their subscription order dates. Refunds, or partial refunds, may be issued under certain circumstances pursuant to the terms of our customer satisfaction guarantee. We consider the number of subscription units to be an important metric since subscriptions enable us to increase the lifetime value of a customer through deeper, longer-term relationships. In addition, as we innovate our product line-up and make a free business formation a foundational element of our business model, we believe the number of subscription units, when viewed together with the number of business formations during a particular period, provides insight into the effectiveness of our freemium strategy and its ability to drive growth in our subscription business. Subscriptions typically range from 30 days to one year in duration and the vast majority of our new subscriptions originate from business formation orders and have an annual term. Our customers can have multiple subscriptions at the end of a period. For example, a popular combination for a new small business owner is attorney advice and registered agent subscriptions. The below table sets forth the number of subscription units as of March 31, 2023 and 2022: As of March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Number of subscription units 1,501 1,362 We achieved 10% growth in subscription units from March 31, 2022 to March 31, 2023, primarily driven by a 14% increase in our registered agent and compliance subscription units and to a lesser extent an increase in our LZ Tax and virtual mail subscriptions, partially offset by an 18% decrease in our consumer and other subscription units. The number of subscription units as of March 31, 2023 increased 4% from 1,441 thousand subscription units as of December 31, 2022. We aim to continue to grow subscription units by increasing the proportion of our small business customers that purchase a subscription service at the time of their initial formation purchase and by improving retention rates. Average revenue per subscription unit We define average revenue per subscription unit, or ARPU, as of a given date as subscription revenue for the twelve-month period ended on such date, or LTM, divided by the average of the number of subscription units at the beginning and end of the LTM period. We consider ARPU to be an important metric because it helps to illustrate our ability to provide and monetize higher value subscriptions. In addition, when viewed together with subscription units, ARPU provides insight into the impact that higher-value subscriptions have on our ability to grow our subscription units. We have expanded ARPU in recent periods, and ARPU increased 6% as of March 31, 2023 compared to March 31, 2022. 25 The below table sets forth ARPU as of March 31, 2023 and 2022: As of March 31, 2023 2022 Average revenue per subscription unit $ 259 $ 244 ARPU as of March 31, 2023 was flat sequentially compared to December 31, 2022 and up modestly year-over-year with the increase driven primarily by LZ Tax and, to a lesser extent, an increase in ARPU related to our consumer and other subscription units, partially offset by a decrease in ARPU related to our registered agent and compliance subscription units. We expect ARPU to increase over time as subscription units from our new product offerings, which carry higher average price points than our other subscription products, comprise a greater share of total subscription units. Annual small business retention rate We define annual small business retention rate as the percentage of small business subscription units active as of the last day of the quarter one year ago that were still active subscriptions 12 months later. Small business subscription units represent our subscriptions targeted at our small business customers and include subscriptions for our registered agent and compliance services, LZ Tax, our small business legal advisory plan and subscriptions acquired through our purchase of Earth Class Mail and Revvsales Inc., and exclude subscriptions from our enterprise customers, our operations in the U.K. and our consumer legal advisory plan. Annual small business retention rate includes both monthly and annual subscription units and reflects all subscription unit attrition, including as a result of actual business failures of certain of our customers. Our annual small business retention rate as of March 31, 2023 was 62.8%. We expect annual retention rate to fluctuate as we continue to test new products, subscription term lengths and price points and seek to optimize our product offerings across our lineup in connection with our freemium strategy. While there may be a general correlation between annual small business retention rate and our ability to increase customer lifetime value and the growth of our customer base, we do not view it as a predictor of future revenue given the varying needs of a small business during the evolution of its lifecycle and the varying use cases of the products underlying our subscription units. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future performance will depend on many factors, including the following: Our share ofbusiness formations. The majority of our transaction revenue is generated by providing formation services to guide our customers through the transition from being aspiring business owners to actually launching their entities. We offer entity formation services for LLCs, corporations and non-profits as well as DBA filings. In the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, business formations represented the largest share of our total transaction orders. In addition, business formations act as an entrance point for many customers to the LegalZoom ecosystem, where they then often purchase additional products and services. Our business depends on the continuation of new business formations in the U.S., which may be seasonal in nature and dependent on macroeconomic factors, and even more so, on our ability to increase our share of these formations. Further, as we continue to invest in fulfillment automation technologies and become more efficient in fulfilling business formation orders, the timing of our revenue recognition in future periods may vary from historical seasonality and other trends. Product leadership. We have invested significantly and expect to continue to invest in our user experience, which we believe is critical to attracting and converting customers and improving retention. These investments consist mainly of creating educational content, improving our website and application user interface, and creating and offering additional products and services, including the growing use of experts in the customer journey. The performance of our product is important to attracting new customers to our platform, maintaining a healthy subscriber base and retaining our customers. Ability to enhance customer lifetime value. Many of our subscribers have increased their cumulative spend with us over time as they have expanded their use of our platform to include additional products and subscription services. Our relationship with our small business customers typically starts with the formation of their business and deepens as their businesses grow and their needs become more complex. By continuing to develop new products and subscription services to address such needs, such as tax advice and preparation, virtual mail and e-signature, we expect to see higher customer engagement and retention, which in turn would further increase our customer lifetime value. Additionally, we offer third-party services via our partner ecosystem, such as our partnership with Wix, which enables our small business customers to build their online presence, and we expect to be able to generate incremental revenue via these partner offerings. 26 Investment in marketing. We have invested, and expect that we will continue to invest, in the promotion of our services through our various customer acquisition channels, including performance marketing, search engine optimization, television, digital video, social, radio, and our inside sales team to acquire new customers. We frequently evaluate how we price, market, and sell transaction products in order to optimize our subscription business. Investment in tax offerings.Tax represents a natural adjacency in our mission to make legal and compliance services accessible to small businesses. Based on customer surveys, we estimate that approximately 70% of small business owners that sought a tax accountant did not have one at the time of their entity formation but face tax implications as a result of the entity they choose. To address this customer need, we have invested in our Tax Advisory offering. We anticipate incurring additional costs related to our tax offerings as we continue to invest in these offerings. We believe that our tax offerings represent an attractive opportunity for incremental revenue growth. Talent acquisition and retention.We are focused on providing a quality employee experience as we believe the future success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to attract and retain talented and highly productive employees, including software engineers, product designers, brand and performance marketers, and customer-facing positions. We compete for talent within the technology industry and believe that our strong brand recognition and greater company purpose are important, positive considerations in our ability to recruit talent. We also are scaling an in-house team of certified public accountants, or CPAs, and enrolled agents that are critical to our tax offerings. Macroeconomic factors. Fluctuations in general macroeconomic, political, regulatory and market conditions, such as recessionary fears, the current inflationary environment, rising interest rates and lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic can adversely impact consumer spending patterns, the success of existing small businesses and the formation of new small businesses. While overall U.S. business formations increased in the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022 based on a review of U.S. Census data, we believe that future negative or decelerating impacts from sustained inflation, higher interest rates or other macroeconomic fluctuations remains uncertain. Key Components of our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sources identified below. Transaction revenue. Transaction revenue is primarily generated from our customized legal document services upon fulfillment of these services. Transaction revenue includes filing fees and is net of cancellations, promotional discounts, sales allowances and credit reserves. Subscription revenue. Subscription revenue is generated primarily from subscriptions to our registered agent services, compliance packages, attorney advice, legal forms services, tax services, and virtual mail services in addition to software-as-a-service, or SaaS, subscriptions in the U.K. We generally recognize revenue from our subscriptions ratably over the subscription term. Subscription terms generally range from thirty days to one year. Subscription revenue includes the transaction price allocated to bundled free trials for our subscription services and is net of promotional discounts, cancellations, sales allowances and credit reserves and payments to third-party service providers such as legal plan law firms. For transaction and subscription revenue, we generally collect payments and fees at the time orders are placed and prior to services being rendered. We record amounts collected for services that have not been performed as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheet. The transaction price that we record is generally based on the contractual amounts and is reduced for estimated sales allowances for price concessions, charge-backs, sales credits and refunds, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize. Partner revenue. Partner revenue consists primarily of one-time or recurring fees earned from third-party providers from leads generated to such providers through our online legal platform. Revenue is recognized when the related performance-based criteria have been met. We assess whether performance criteria have been met on a cost-per-click or cost-per-action basis. In the near term, we expect a decrease in partner revenue as we transition away from legacy partners that do not align with our new strategic direction and focus more on long-term opportunities to have strategic partnerships that build on recurring revenue models. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting EstimatesRevenue Recognition in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the accounting policies related to revenue recognition, including arrangements that contain multiple deliverables. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue includes all costs of providing and fulfilling our services. Cost of revenue primarily includes government filing fees; costs of fulfillment, customer care and credentialed professionals, and related benefits, 27 including stock-based compensation; costs of independent contractors for document preparation; telecommunications and data center costs; amortization of acquired developed technology; depreciation and amortization of network computers, equipment and internal-use software; printing, shipping and handling charges; credit and debit card fees; allocated overhead; legal document kit expenses; and sales and use taxes. We defer direct and incremental costs primarily related to government filing fees incurred prior to the associated service meeting the criteria for revenue recognition. These contract assets are recognized as cost of revenue in the same period the related revenue is recognized. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in enhancing our customer experience and in new product development, including expert-assisted offerings for our tax and attorney-assisted legal offerings. Gross profit and gross margin Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, have been and will continue to be affected by various factors, primarily the mix between transaction, subscription and partner revenue. Our gross margin on subscription and partner revenue is higher than our gross margin on transaction revenue. Our long-term gross margin expansion is also expected to be driven by automation improvements and digitization efforts. Further, our acquisitions of other companies have negatively impacted our gross margin in the short term, and any such future acquisitions could have a similar effect. In the short term, we expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars but our gross margin to be impacted as a result of higher filing fees as a percentage of revenue due to the roll-out of our new product line-up, as well as by our continued investment in scaling our tax business, which has lower gross margins than other products in our portfolio. However, we expect our gross margin to increase modestly over the longer term as we continue to focus on growing higher-margin subscription revenue and invest in fulfillment automation technologies. In addition, our gross margin could fluctuate from period to period due to fulfillment rates and seasonality. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist primarily of sales and marketing, technology and development, general and administrative expenses, and to a lesser extent, impairments of goodwill, long-lived assets and other assets. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of customer acquisition media costs; compensation and related benefits, including stock-based compensation for marketing and sales personnel; media production; public relations and other promotional activities; general business development activities; an allocation of depreciation and amortization and allocated overhead. Customer acquisition media costs consist primarily of search engine marketing, television and radio costs. Marketing and advertising costs to promote our services are expensed in the period incurred. Media production costs are expensed the first time the advertisement is aired. We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing to drive additional revenue, further penetrate our expanding addressable market, and build on our digital brand leadership and awareness. While we anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will continue to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future, we continue to reduce certain brand media spend amid macroeconomic uncertainty. However, we expect the year-over-year declines in this spend to moderate going forward. Technology and development Technology and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related benefits, including stock-based compensation, expenses for outside consultants, an allocation of depreciation and amortization and allocated overhead. These expenses include costs incurred in the development and implementation of our products, websites, mobile applications, online legal platform, research and development and related infrastructure. Technology and development expenses are expensed as incurred, except to the extent that such costs are associated with internal-use software costs that qualify for capitalization. Excluding stock-based compensation, we expect our technology and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we invest in new products and services and in production automation technologies to enhance our customer experience. We expect our technology and development expenses to remain relatively consistent or increase as a percentage of our revenue over the long-term, although our technology and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period-to-period due to seasonality and the timing and extent of these expenses. General and administrative Our general and administrative expenses relate primarily to compensation and related benefits, including stock-based compensation, for executive and corporate personnel, professional and consulting fees, an allocation of 28 depreciation and amortization, allocated overhead and legal costs. We expense legal costs for defending legal proceedings as incurred. Excluding stock-based compensation, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future due to additional costs associated with accounting, compliance, insurance and investor relations as we have recently become a public company. Over the next year, we will continue to incur stock-based compensation expense as a result of certain modifications to equity awards that occurred in connection with our IPO; however, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the longer term. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period-to-period due to seasonality and the timing and extent of these expenses. Interest income (expense), net Interest income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income generated from our investment in money market funds offset by amortization of debt issuance costs related to our Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, or 2021 Revolving Facility. We expect interest income (expense), net, to remain insignificant in the near term as we have no outstanding indebtedness. However, we would incur interest expense in the longer term should we draw down on our 2021 Revolving Facility or incur other indebtedness. Income taxes Our provision for income taxes consists of current and deferred federal, state and foreign income taxes. We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies from stock-based compensation and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data for each of the periods indicated. The period-to-period comparison of financial results should not be considered as a prediction or indicative of our future results: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (Restated) (in thousands) Revenue $ 165,936 $ 155,427 Cost of revenue(1)(2) 60,395 56,182 Gross profit 105,541 99,245 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1)(2) 60,150 76,874 Technology and development(1)(2) 19,683 17,959 General and administrative(1)(2) 26,504 29,488 Total operating expenses 106,337 124,321 Loss from operations (796) (25,076) Interest income (expense), net 1,581 (53) Other income (expense), net 694 (1,544) Income (loss) before income taxes 1,479 (26,673) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 3,837 (920) Net loss $ (2,358) $ (25,753) 29 (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (Restated) (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 874 $ 277 Sales and marketing 1,532 3,125 Technology and development 4,320 4,298 General and administrative 9,741 14,165 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 16,467 $ 21,865 Stock-based compensation expense decreased significantly for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the same periods of 2022 due to the modification of certain equity awards in connection with our IPO. Refer to Note 9 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. (2)Includes depreciation and amortization expense for our property and equipment, including capitalized internal-use software and intangible assets as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (Restated) (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 2,622 $ 2,070 Sales and marketing 1,257 1,875 Technology and development 858 726 General and administrative 832 723 Total depreciation and amortization expense $ 5,569 $ 5,394 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue by type Transaction $ 62,239 $ 65,325 $ (3,086) (5) % Subscription 97,311 84,364 12,947 15 % Partner 6,386 5,738 648 11 % Total revenue $ 165,936 $ 155,427 $ 10,509 7 % The increase in total revenue was primarily driven by an increase in subscription revenue. Subscription revenue was 59% and 54% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and transaction revenue was 38% and 42% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Transaction revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased due to an 18% decrease in average order value compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022, partially offset by a 15% increase in the number of transaction units compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in average order value for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was driven primarily by a 26% decrease in average order value related to our business formations, as well as decreases in the average order value of our IP and other transactions. The decrease in 30 average order value related to our business formations was driven primarily by the nationwide rollout of free LLC formations during the three months ended March 31, 2023. The overall increase in transaction units during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was due to a 32% increase in business formations due primarily to the nationwide rollout of free LLC formations. This increase was partially offset by an 11% reduction in estate planning and other consumer transactions and lower volumes in our intellectual property business largely due to the discontinuation of our do-it-yourself trademark product in favor of our attorney-assisted solution in March 2022. In addition, we were more efficient in our fulfillment in the three months ended March 31, 2023, resulting in additional recognized revenue during the period. Subscription revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased primarily due to a 10% increase in the number of subscription units and a 6% improvement in ARPU compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in subscription units was driven primarily by a 14% increase in our registered agent and compliance subscription units and to a lesser extent an increase in our LZ Tax and virtual mail subscriptions, partially offset by an 18% decrease in our consumer and other subscription units compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. ARPU was flat sequentially compared to December 31, 2022 and up modestly year-over-year with the increase driven primarily by LZ Tax and, to a lesser extent, an increase in ARPU related to our consumer and other subscription units, partially offset by a decrease in ARPU related to our registered agent and compliance subscription units. Partner revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased as a result of higher business formation volumes during the period. Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 60,395 $ 56,182 $ 4,213 7 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $4.2 million mainly due to a $3.3 million increase in third-party staffing fees and filing fees. The increase in filing fees was primarily driven by the increase in business formations during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Gross profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 105,541 $ 99,245 $ 6,296 6 % The increase in gross profit was driven by a $10.5 million increase in revenue partially offset by a $4.2 million increase in cost of revenue. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 60,150 $ 76,874 $ (16,724) (22 %) Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased primarily due to a $13.0 million reduction in customer acquisition marketing spend and a $3.3 million reduction in payroll and related benefits. Customer acquisition marketing spend was $40.7 million and $53.7 million for the three months ended 31 March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, as we reduced our marketing spend in response to the uncertain macroeconomic environment. Technology and development Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 19,683 $ 17,959 $ 1,724 10 % Technology and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased primarily due to an increase in payroll and related benefits largely due to increased headcount. General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 26,504 $ 29,488 $ (2,984) (10 %) General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased primarily due to a $4.4 million decrease in stock-based compensation, mainly in connection with award modifications from our IPO in July 2021, partially offset by $0.6 million in restructuring costs related to the reduction of our U.K. headcount, which is expected to be substantially complete by December 31, 2023. Interest income (expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income (expense), net $ 1,581 $ (53) $ 1,634 (3083) % The change in interest income (expense), net, was primarily due to dividend income generated from our money market investments during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Other income (expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Other income (expense), net $ 694 $ (1,544) $ 2,238 (145 %) The change in other income (expense), net, between 2023 and 2022 was primarily due to changes in foreign currency movements related to our intercompany loans which were denominated in British Pound Sterling, or GBP. 32 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 $ change % change (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 3,837 $ (920) $ 4,757 (517 %) Effective tax rate 259.4 % 3.4 % The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2023 resulted from a $4.8 million unfavorable change in our income taxes as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The change was primarily due to pre-tax book income and non-deductible stock compensation for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to a pre-tax loss for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Since inception, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures primarily from public and private sales of equity securities, cash flows provided by operating activities and equity and debt financing arrangements, including the proceeds of our IPO in July 2021. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are to finance working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. At March 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $204.1 million, which consisted of cash on deposit with banks and money market funds, of which approximately $1.4 million related to our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $15.0 million from December 31, 2022 to March 31, 2023, primarily as a result of cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment and stock repurchases during the period. We currently anticipate that our available cash, cash equivalents and cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our operational cash needs for at least the next twelve months and in the foreseeable future. We have the ability to supplement our liquidity needs over the longer term with borrowings under our 2021 Revolving Facility. In addition, we previously announced our intention to sell our operating headquarters in Austin, Texas, which is discussed in more detail in Note 5 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. We have historically considered the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested, and accordingly no taxes have been provided on such earnings. We continue to evaluate our plans for reinvestment or repatriation of unremitting foreign earnings and have not changed our previous indefinite reinvestment determination following the enactment of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or Tax Act. We have not repatriated funds to the U.S. to satisfy domestic liquidity needs, nor do we anticipate the need to do so. If we determine that all or a portion of our foreign earnings are no longer indefinitely reinvested, we may be subject to foreign withholding taxes and U.S. state income taxes. Furthermore, our board of directors has authorized our management to repurchase up to $150.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time. As of the date of this filing, we have repurchased $104.6 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. For additional information regarding our stock repurchase program, refer to Note 8 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Borrowings 2021 Revolving Facility On July 2, 2021, we entered into our 2021 Revolving Facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the administrative agent. This agreement amends and restates our first lien credit and guarantee agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A, or 2018 Credit Facility, and permits revolving borrowings of up to $150.0 million. The 2021 Revolving Facility provides for the issuance of up to $20.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans, in an amount of up to $10.0 million. We have $150.0 million available for use under our 2021 Revolving Facility. Subject to the satisfaction of certain criteria, we will be able to increase the facility by an amount equal to the sum of (i) the greater of $90.0 million and 75% of consolidated last twelve months cash earnings before interest expense, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Cash EBITDA, which is defined in the 2018 Credit Facility, or LTM Cash EBITDA, plus (ii) unused amounts under the general debt basket (i.e., an amount equal to the greater of $50.0 million and an equivalent percentage of consolidated LTM Cash EBITDA), plus (iii) an unlimited amount so long as the borrower is in pro forma compliance with the Financial Covenant (as defined below), in each case, with the consent of the lenders participating in the increase. 33 We are required to pay a commitment fee in respect of unutilized commitments under the 2021 Revolving Facility. The commitment fee is, initially, 0.35% per annum. The commitment fee is subject to a reduction of 0.10% if the total net first lien leverage ratio does not exceed 3.50 to 1.00. We are also required to pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees. As of March 31, 2023, the interest rate applicable to the 2021 Revolving Facility was, at our option, at a rate equal to the greatest of (i) the administrative agents prime rate; (ii) the federal funds effective rate plus 1/2 of 1.0% and (iii) one month LIBOR (subject to a 1.00% floor), plus 1.00% or LIBOR (subject to a 0.00% floor) plus 2.00%. The interest rate margins under the 2021 Revolving Facility are subject to a reduction of 0.25% and a further reduction of 0.25% if the total net first lien leverage ratio does not exceed 3.50 to 1.00 and 2.50 to 1.00, respectively. We have the option to voluntarily repay outstanding loans at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs with respect to LIBOR loans. There is no scheduled amortization under the 2021 Revolving Facility. The principal amount outstanding is due and payable in full at maturity, five years from the closing date of the 2021 Revolving Facility. Obligations under the 2021 Revolving Facility are guaranteed by our existing and future direct and indirect material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The 2021 Revolving Facility is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the borrower and the guarantors, subject to certain exceptions. The 2021 Revolving Facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; create or incur liens; pay dividends and distributions or repurchase capital stock; merge, liquidate and make asset sales; change lines of business; change our fiscal year; incur restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to make distributions and create liens; modify our organizational documents; make investments, loans and advances; and enter into certain transactions with affiliates. The 2021 Revolving Facility requires compliance with a total net first lien leverage ratio of 4.50 to 1.00, or Financial Covenant. The Financial Covenant will be tested at quarter-end only if the total principal amount of all revolving loans, swingline loans and drawn letters of credit that have not been reimbursed exceeds 35% of the total commitments under the 2021 Revolving Facility on the last day of such fiscal quarter. On May 5, 2023, we entered into an amendment to our 2021 Revolving Facility to replace the LIBOR interest rate benchmark with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, benchmark, with a 0.10% credit spread adjustment to the SOFR benchmark for all available interest periods. See Part II, Item 5 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. Cash flows The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (Restated) (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 29,208 $ 13,737 Net cash used in investing activities (7,428) (4,607) Net cash used in financing activities (6,755) (872) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 19 (51) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 15,044 $ 8,207 Net cash provided by operating activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our customers for our transaction and subscription services. Our primary uses of cash in operating activities are for our fulfillment, production and customer care costs, employee salaries and benefits, sales and marketing expenses and third-party consulting expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities is impacted by our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation and impairments of long-lived assets, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities. In the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash provided by operating activities was $29.2 million resulting from a net loss of $2.4 million, adjusted for stock-based compensation and other non-cash expenses of $24.3 million and net cash flows provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $7.2 million. The $7.2 million of net cash 34 flows provided from changes in our operating assets and liabilities included a $16.9 million increase in deferred revenue largely due to growth of our subscription units, which are predominantly billed in advance of our revenue recognition, partially offset by a $5.5 million reduction in accrued expenses and operating lease liability and other liabilities due to the timing of our payments and a $5.5 million increase in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets. Net cash used in investing activities Our primary investing activities have consisted of capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment necessary to support our customer contact center, network and operations, the capitalization of internal-use software necessary to develop and maintain our platform and deliver new products and features, which provide value to our customers, business acquisitions and investments in other companies. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures to continue to increase. In the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in investing activities was $7.4 million resulting primarily from purchases of property and equipment. Net cash used in financing activities Our primary uses of cash in financing activities are for repurchases of common stock and settlements of stock options and RSUs. Net cash provided by financing activities is primarily impacted by exercises of stock options by our employees and issuance of common stock. In the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $6.8 million primarily for the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase program. Material Cash Requirements We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, as well as cash expected to be generated by future operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our material cash requirements for the next twelve months. Our material cash requirements include the below contractual and other obligations: Advertising, Media and Other Commitments We use a variety of media to advertise our services, including search engine marketing, television and radio. At March 31, 2023, we had non-cancelable minimum advertising and media commitments for future advertising spots of $6.8 million, substantially all of which will be paid over a two-year period. We also have non-cancelable agreements with various vendors, which require us to pay $60.1 million over a five-year period, of which $44.7 million remains to be paid as of March 31, 2023. Lease Obligations At March 31, 2023, we had various non-cancelable operating leases for office space and equipment, which expire between January 2024 and December 2032. As of March 31, 2023, we had total minimum operating lease maturities of $12.1 million, $2.1 million of which mature within nine months. See Note 9 of our consolidated financial statements included in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our future operating lease payments. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to understand and evaluate our core operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different from similarly titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and liquidity and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our financial performance and liquidity, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects and allow for greater transparency with respect to important measures used by our management for financial and operational decision-making. We are presenting these non-GAAP measures to assist investors in seeing our financial performance using a management view and because we believe that these measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We define Adjusted EBITDA as net loss adjusted to exclude interest income (expense), net, provision for (benefit from) income taxes, depreciation and amortization, other expense (income), net, non-cash stock-based compensation, loss on debt extinguishment, impairment of goodwill, long-lived and other assets, losses from impairment of 35 available-for-sale debt securities, restructuring expenses, legal expenses, acquisition related expenses, transaction-related expenses and certain other non-recurring expenses. Our Adjusted EBITDA financial measure differs from GAAP in that it excludes certain items of income and expense. We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. We define net loss margin as net loss as a percentage of revenue based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is one of the primary performance measures used by our management and our board of directors to understand and evaluate our financial performance and operating trends, including period-to-period comparisons, prepare and approve our annual budget, develop short and long-term operational plans and determine appropriate compensation plans for our employees. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. In assessing our performance, we exclude certain expenses that we believe are not comparable period over period. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation of, or as an alternative to, measures prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of Adjusted EBITDA rather than net loss, which is the nearest GAAP equivalent of Adjusted EBITDA, and it may be calculated differently by other companies in our industry, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Some of these limitations include that the non-GAAP financial measure: does not reflect interest income (expense), or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, which reduces cash available to us; does not reflect provision for income taxes that may result in payments that reduce cash available to us; excludes depreciation and amortization and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated may be replaced in the future; does not reflect foreign currency exchange or other gains or losses, which are included in other (expense) income, net; excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; excludes losses from impairments of goodwill, long-lived and other assets and available-for-sale debt securities; excludes legal expenses, which reduce cash available to us; excludes restructuring expenses, which reduce cash available to us; excludes transaction-related expenses that are not considered representative of our underlying performance, which reduce cash available to us; and does not reflect certain other non-recurring expenses that are not considered representative of our underlying performance, which reduce cash available to us. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (Restated) (in thousands, except percentages) Reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA Net loss $ (2,358) $ (25,753) Interest (income) expense, net (1,581) 53 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 3,837 (920) Depreciation and amortization 5,569 5,394 Other (income) expense, net (693) 1,544 Stock-based compensation 16,467 21,865 Transaction-related expenses 30 Restructuring costs(1) 627 Legal expenses 40 Adjusted EBITDA $ 21,868 $ 2,253 36 Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (Restated) Net loss margin (1 %) (17 %) Adjusted EBITDA margin 13 % 1 % (1) For 2023, restructuring expenses related to the reduction of our U.K. headcount, which is expected to be substantially complete by December 31, 2023. Restructuring expenses include salary and benefits for the impacted employees and are included in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Adjusted EBITDA increased from $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $21.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase of $19.6 million resulted primarily from an increase in revenue of $10.5 million and a reduction in operating expenses of $18.0 million, partially offset by an increase in cost of revenue of $4.2 million. We expect our Adjusted EBITDA to increase in absolute dollars in the longer term, although the rate at which our Adjusted EBITDA may grow could vary based upon the interplay of the foregoing factors. Free cash flow Free cash flow is a liquidity measure used by management in evaluating the cash generated by our operations after purchases of property and equipment including capitalized internal-use software. We consider free cash flow to be an important measure because it provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by our business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business and strengthening our balance sheet. Once our business needs and obligations are met, cash can be used to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in future growth. The usefulness of free cash flow as an analytical tool has limitations because it excludes certain items that are settled in cash, does not represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenses, does not reflect our future contractual commitments, and may be calculated differently by other companies in our industry. Accordingly, it should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net cash used in or provided by operating activities. The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, to free cash flow: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 (Restated) (in thousands) Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Free Cash Flow Net cash provided by operating activities $ 29,208 $ 13,737 Purchase of property and equipment (7,428) (4,911) Free cash flow $ 21,780 $ 8,826 We experienced an increase in our free cash flow from $8.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $21.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to a $15.5 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities resulted from a $19.6 million increase in net income after adjusting for stock-based compensation and other non-cash items, partially offset by a $4.1 million unfavorable change in our operating assets and liabilities primarily due to the timing of our accounts payable payments. Free cash flow was also impacted by higher capital expenditures for the purchase of property and equipment, including capitalization of internal-use software. We expect our free cash flow to increase in absolute dollars over the longer term, although the rate at which our free cash flow may grow could vary based upon the interplay of the factors discussed above. Critical Accounting Estimates During the three months ended March 31, 2023, there have been no significant changes to our critical accounting estimates compared with those disclosed described under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 37 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 3 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on certain accounting standards adopted in the period ended March 31, 2023 and recent accounting announcements that have not yet been required to be implemented and may be applicable to our future operations.