Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 29, 2024. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs and that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. See Forward-Looking Statements preceding Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview LegalZoom is a leading online platform for business formation in the U.S. Our unique position at business inception allows us to become a trusted business advisor, supporting the evolving needs of a new business throughout its lifecycle, and we have expanded our platform to include professional expertise and other products, both legal and non-legal, to better meet the needs of small businesses. Driven by a mission to unleash entrepreneurship, we deliver comprehensive legal, tax, accounting and compliance products and expertise for small business owners through easy-to-use technology. We operate across all 50 states and in over 3,000 counties in the U.S., with over two decades of experience in simplifying the legal and compliance process for our customers and empowering entrepreneurs to make their dream a reality. Recent Developments and Updates In April 2024, we moved our corporate headquarters from Glendale, California to our offices in Mountain View, California. In the first quarter of 2024, we expanded our presence in attorney services with the launch of an attorney-drafted prenuptial agreement offering, a simplified, cost effective service hosted on our proprietary platform. In 2023, we exited certain channel partnership relationships as part of our focus on profitable, customer-led growth. In the first half of 2024, we expect these exits to negatively impact business formations and, in turn, our subscription unit growth, as business formations act as an entrance point for many customers into the LegalZoom ecosystem. We are continuing to scale up LZ Tax and we are learning more about our tax customers in the process. As we optimize our LZ Tax offerings to better meet the needs of our target customers, we are seeing and expect to continue to see a decrease in the number of customers purchasing and retaining an LZ Tax subscription unit. While this decrease will produce a revenue headwind throughout 2024, we expect increased retention of our LZ Tax subscription units over the long term. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future performance will depend on many factors, including the following: Macroeconomic factors. Adverse changes in general macroeconomic, political, regulatory and market conditions can negatively impact consumer spending patterns, the success of existing small businesses and the formation of new small businesses. While we continue to actively monitor the impacts of the evolving macroeconomic environment on all aspects of our business, future negative or decelerating impacts from factors such as inflation, higher interest rates, regulatory obstacles or changes in laws (including changes in tax laws and regulations) remain uncertain. Our share of business formations. In the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, business formations represented the largest share of our total transaction orders. Business formations act as an entrance point for many customers to the LegalZoom ecosystem, where they then often purchase a mix of transaction and subscription offerings alongside and after the initial formation transaction. As a result, our operating results depend on the continuation of new business formations in the U.S. and even more so, on our ability to increase our share of these formations. In an effort to increase our share of new business formations in the U.S., we have introduced and may continue to introduce lower-priced products and services to target more price conscious customers. Ability to enhance customer lifetime value. Our goal is for customers to grow their use of our platform post-formation to include additional transaction products and subscription services as their businesses evolve and that, in turn, customers increase their cumulative spend with us over time. As a result, our future performance depends on our ability to integrate new products and services into our LegalZoom ecosystem and to increase recurring revenue through subscription offerings. As we 19 continue to test new and existing products and services in order to optimize our product line-up, we expect increased volatility across our key business metrics. In addition, in an effort to enhance customer lifetime value, we intend to continue to invest in improving our customer experience, which includes investments in our educational content and improving our website and mobile experience. Ability to integrate experts. We believe that our expert offerings significantly expand our addressable market. We aim to increase the consumption of our higher-cost expert offerings through targeted cross-selling and promotion of our products, as well as by improving the platforms through which our customers and experts interact. Our ability to further integrate experts into our LegalZoom ecosystem and to increase the consumption of our expert offerings by new and existing customers is key to our future success. Key Business Metrics In addition to the measures presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, we regularly monitor the following financial and operating metrics to evaluate the growth of our business, measure the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, identify trends, formulate financial forecasts and make strategic decisions: Number of business formations We define the number of business formations in a given period as the number of limited liability company, or LLC, incorporation, not-for-profit and doing business as, or DBA, orders placed on our platform in such period. We consider the number of business formations to be an important metric considering that it is typically the first product or service small business customers purchase on our platform, creating the foundation for additional products and subsequent subscription and partner revenue as customers adopt additional products and services throughout the lifecycle of their business. We believe that including customers filing DBAs on our platform provides a more accurate representation of the number of newly formed businesses we serve. These transactions are most often completed by sole proprietors who represent potential future transaction and subscription cross-sell opportunities as their businesses mature. Furthermore, we believe our definition of the number of business formations is most closely aligned with U.S. Census reporting of new applications for Employer Identification Numbers, or EINs, which we believe to be the most relevant source of publicly available U.S. market data. The below table sets forth the number of business formations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Number of business formations 139 170 We experienced an 18% decrease in business formation transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our business formation transactions decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily due to a decrease in LLC formations and the exit of certain channel partner relationships in the third quarter of 2023. Our business formations lagged behind the 2% decrease in overall U.S. business formations during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended in March 31, 2023 based on a review of U.S. Census data revealing new applications for EINs. Number of transactions We define the number of transactions in a given period as gross transaction order volume, prior to refunds, on our platform during such period. Transactions may include one or more services purchased at the same time. For example, a customer of our business formation services may choose to form an LLC and purchase an operating agreement and business licenses at the same time. This constitutes a single transaction. Refunds, or partial refunds, may be issued under certain circumstances pursuant to the terms of our customer satisfaction guarantee. We consider the number of transactions to be an important metric considering that our customers generally begin their LegalZoom journey with a transaction, creating the foundation for generating subsequent subscription and partner revenue. 20 The below table sets forth the number of transactions for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Number of transactions 336 308 We experienced a 9% increase in the number of transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in the number of transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2024 resulted primarily from the introduction of our beneficial ownership information report product along with increases in other small business related transactions, including annual reports and corporate dissolutions. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in business formations discussed above. Average order value We define average order value for a given period as total transaction revenue divided by total number of transactions in such period. We consider average order value to be an important metric given it indicates how much customers are spending on our platform per transaction. The below table sets forth the average order value for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Average order value $ 198 $ 221 Average order value decreased by 10% during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in average order value for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily driven by a shift in the mix of our products towards lower priced transaction products, including annual reports, beneficial ownership information reports and corporate dissolutions, along with a reduction in fees earned from third-party providers from leads generated for such providers through our online platform. Number of subscription units We define the number of subscription units in a given period as the paid subscriptions at the end of such period, including those that are not yet 60 days past their subscription order dates. Refunds, or partial refunds, may be issued under certain circumstances pursuant to the terms of our customer satisfaction guarantee. We consider the number of subscription units to be an important metric since subscriptions enable us to increase the lifetime value of a customer through deeper, longer-term relationships. In addition, as we innovate our product line-up and make a free business formation a foundational element of our business model, we believe the number of subscription units, when viewed together with the number of business formations during a particular period, provides insight into the effectiveness of our freemium strategy and its ability to drive growth in our subscription business. Subscriptions typically range from 30 days to one year in duration and the vast majority of our new subscriptions originate from business formation orders and have an annual term. Our customers can have multiple subscriptions at the end of a period. For example, a popular combination for a new small business owner is attorney advice and registered agent subscriptions. The below table sets forth the number of subscription units as of March 31, 2024 and 2023: As of March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Number of subscription units 1,605 1,501 21 We achieved 7% growth in subscription units from March 31, 2023 to March 31, 2024, primarily driven by an increase in forms and e-signature subscriptions resulting from bundling of these products into certain business formation offerings as well as an increase in virtual mail subscriptions. This growth was partially offset by a decline in registered agent and compliance subscriptions driven by the exit of certain channel partner relationships in the third quarter of 2023. On a sequential basis, the number of subscription units as of March 31, 2024 increased 4% from 1,545 thousand subscription units as of December 31, 2023. Average revenue per subscription unit We define average revenue per subscription unit, or ARPU, as of a given date as subscription revenue for the twelve-month period ended on such date, or LTM, divided by the average of the number of subscription units at the beginning and end of the LTM period. We consider ARPU to be an important metric because it helps to illustrate our ability to provide and monetize higher value subscriptions. In addition, when viewed together with subscription units, ARPU provides insight into the impact that higher-value subscriptions have on our ability to grow our subscription units. The below table sets forth ARPU as of March 31, 2024 and 2023: As of March 31, 2024 2023 Average revenue per subscription unit $ 272 $ 260 ARPU increased 5% as of March 31, 2024 compared to March 31, 2023 driven primarily by a shift in mix towards our higher priced subscription offerings. ARPU was also impacted by the exit of certain channel partner relationships in the third quarter of 2023 and by the introduction of our forms and e-signature subscription offerings, both of which carry lower price points. ARPU as of March 31, 2024 was down 2% sequentially compared to December 31, 2023. Annual small business retention rate We define annual small business retention rate as the percentage of small business subscription units active as of the last day of the quarter one year ago that were still active subscriptions 12 months later. Small business subscription units represent our subscriptions targeted at our small business customers and include subscriptions for our registered agent and compliance services, LZ Tax, our small business legal advisory plan and subscriptions acquired through our purchase of Earth Class Mail and Revvsales Inc., and exclude subscriptions from our enterprise customers, our operations in the U.K. and our consumer legal advisory plan. Annual small business retention rate includes both monthly and annual subscription units and reflects all subscription unit attrition, including as a result of actual business failures of certain of our customers. Our annual small business retention rate as of March 31, 2024 was approximately 64%. We expect annual retention rate to fluctuate as we continue to test new products, subscription term lengths and price points and seek to optimize our product offerings across our lineup in connection with our freemium strategy. While there may be a general correlation between annual small business retention rate and our ability to increase customer lifetime value and the growth of our customer base, we do not view it as a predictor of future revenue given the varying needs of a small business during its lifecycle and the varying use cases of the products underlying our subscription units. Key Components of our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from the sources identified below. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023, we no longer present partner revenue on a standalone basis and partner revenue is now included within transaction and subscription revenue. This change had no impact on total revenue. Prior period disclosures and amounts have been conformed to the current period presentation. Transaction revenueTransaction revenue is primarily generated from our customized legal document services upon fulfillment of these services. Transaction revenue includes filing fees and is net of cancellations, promotional discounts, sales allowances and credit reserves. Tax preparation services are recognized at the point in time when the customers tax return is filed and accepted by the applicable government authority. We also earn fees from third-party providers from leads generated to such providers through our online legal platform. 22 Subscription revenueSubscription revenue is generated primarily from subscriptions to our registered agent, compliance packages, attorney advice, legal forms, tax and accounting, virtual mail and e-signature services, and software-as-a-service, or SaaS, accounting solution subscriptions and SaaS subscriptions in the U.K. We generally recognize revenue from our subscriptions ratably over the subscription term. Subscription terms generally range from thirty days to one year. Subscription revenue includes the transaction price allocated to bundled free trials for our subscription services and is net of promotional discounts, cancellations, sales allowances and credit reserves and payments to third-party service providers such as legal plan law firms. For transaction and subscription revenue, we generally collect payments and fees at the time orders are placed and prior to services being rendered. We record amounts collected for services that have not been performed as deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheet. The transaction price that we record is generally based on the contractual amounts and is reduced for estimated sales allowances for price concessions, charge-backs, sales credits and refunds, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize. See the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting EstimatesRevenue Recognition in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the accounting policies related to revenue recognition, including arrangements that contain multiple deliverables. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue includes all costs of providing and fulfilling our services. Cost of revenue primarily includes government filing fees, costs of fulfillment, customer care, including the cost of credentialed professionals for tax, and payroll services, and related benefits, including stock-based compensation, and costs of independent contractors for document preparation, telecommunications and data center costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, depreciation and amortization of network computers, equipment and internal-use software, printing, shipping and handling charges, credit and debit card fees, allocated overhead, legal document kit expenses, and sales and use taxes. We defer direct and incremental costs primarily related to government filing fees incurred prior to the associated service meeting the criteria for revenue recognition. These contract assets are recognized as cost of revenue in the same period the related revenue is recognized. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in enhancing our customer experience and in new product development. Gross profit and gross margin Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, have been and will continue to be affected by various factors, primarily the mix between transaction and subscription revenue. Our long-term gross margin expansion is also expected to be driven by automation improvements and digitization efforts. Further, our acquisitions of other companies have negatively impacted our gross margin in the short term, and any such future acquisitions could have a similar effect. In the short term, we expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars but our gross margin to be impacted by our continued investment in scaling our tax and attorney-assisted legal offerings, which have lower gross margins than other products in our portfolio. However, we expect our gross margin to increase modestly over the longer term as we continue to focus on growing higher-margin subscription revenue and investing in fulfillment automation technologies. In addition, our gross margin could fluctuate from period to period due to fulfillment rates and seasonality. Operating expenses Our operating expenses consist primarily of sales and marketing, technology and development, general and administrative expenses, and to a lesser extent, impairments of goodwill, long-lived assets and other assets. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of customer acquisition media costs, compensation and related benefits, including stock-based compensation for marketing and sales personnel, media production, public relations and other promotional activities, general business development activities, an allocation of depreciation and amortization and allocated overhead. Customer acquisition media costs consist primarily of search engine marketing, television and social media costs. Marketing and advertising costs to promote our services are expensed in the period incurred. Media production costs are expensed the first time the advertisement is aired. 23 We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing to drive additional revenue, further penetrate our expanding addressable market, and build on our digital brand leadership and awareness. We anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will continue to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. Technology and development Technology and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and related benefits, including stock-based compensation, expenses for outside consultants, an allocation of depreciation and amortization and allocated overhead. These expenses include costs incurred in the development and implementation of our products, websites, mobile applications, online legal platform, research and development and related infrastructure. Technology and development expenses are expensed as incurred, except to the extent that such costs are associated with internal-use software costs that qualify for capitalization. We expect our technology and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we invest in new products and services and in production automation technologies to enhance our customer experience. We expect our technology and development expenses to remain relatively consistent or increase as a percentage of our revenue over the long-term, although our technology and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period-to-period due to seasonality and the timing and extent of these expenses. General and administrative Our general and administrative expenses relate primarily to compensation and related benefits, including stock-based compensation, for executive and corporate personnel, professional and consulting fees, an allocation of depreciation and amortization, allocated overhead and legal costs. We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the longer term. Our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period-to-period due to seasonality and the timing and extent of these expenses. Interest expense Interest expense consists primarily of amortization of debt issuance costs related to our Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, or 2021 Revolving Facility. We expect interest expense to remain insignificant in the near term as we have no outstanding indebtedness. However, we would incur interest expense in the longer term should we draw down on our 2021 Revolving Facility or incur other indebtedness. Interest income Interest income consists primarily of interest income generated from our investment in money market funds. Income taxes Our provision for income taxes consists of current and deferred federal, state and foreign income taxes. We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies from stock-based compensation and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. 24 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data for each of the periods indicated. The period-to-period comparison of financial results should not be considered as a prediction or indicative of our future results: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Revenue $ 174,214 $ 165,936 Cost of revenue(1)(2) 68,384 60,395 Gross profit 105,830 105,541 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1)(2) 53,753 60,150 Technology and development(1)(2) 23,957 19,683 General and administrative(1)(2) 23,065 26,504 Total operating expenses 100,775 106,337 Income (loss) from operations 5,055 (796) Interest expense (61) (84) Interest income 2,887 1,665 Other (expense) income, net 93 694 Income before income taxes 7,974 1,479 Provision for income taxes 3,230 3,837 Net income (loss) $ 4,744 $ (2,358) (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 1,593 $ 874 Sales and marketing 1,579 1,532 Technology and development 5,703 4,320 General and administrative 5,981 9,741 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 14,856 $ 16,467 Stock-based compensation expense decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to the modification of certain equity awards in connection with our IPO. Refer to Note 8 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 25 (2)Includes depreciation and amortization expense for our property and equipment, including capitalized internal-use software and intangible assets as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 4,467 $ 2,622 Sales and marketing 799 1,257 Technology and development 1,477 858 General and administrative 927 832 Total depreciation and amortization expense $ 7,670 $ 5,569 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue by type(1) Transaction $ 66,317 $ 68,027 $ (1,710) (3) % Subscription 107,897 97,909 9,988 10 % Total revenue $ 174,214 $ 165,936 $ 8,278 5 % (1) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023, we no longer present partner revenue on a standalone basis and partner revenue is now included within transaction and subscription revenue. This change had no impact on total revenue. Prior period disclosures and amounts have been conformed to the current period presentation. The increase in total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily driven by an increase in subscription revenue. Subscription revenue was 62% and 59% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and transaction revenue was 38% and 41% of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Transaction revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 decreased due to a 10% decrease in average order value compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, partially offset by a 9% increase in transaction units over the same period. The decrease in average order value for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily driven by a shift in the mix of our products towards lower priced transaction products, including annual reports, beneficial ownership information reports and corporate dissolutions, along with a reduction in fees earned from third-party providers from leads generated for such providers through our online platform. The increase in transaction units during the three months ended March 31, 2024 resulted primarily from the introduction of our beneficial ownership information report product, as well as an increase in other small business related transactions, including annual reports and corporate dissolutions. The foregoing increases in transaction units were partially offset by an 18% reduction in business formations primarily due to a decrease in LLC formations and the exit of certain channel partner relationships in the third quarter of 2023. Subscription revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased primarily due to a 7% increase in the number of subscription units and a 5% improvement in ARPU compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in subscription units was primarily driven by an increase in forms and e-signature subscriptions primarily due to the bundling of these products into certain business formation offerings, as well as an increase in virtual mail subscriptions. This growth was partially offset by a decline in registered agent and compliance subscriptions driven by the exit of certain channel partner relationships in the third quarter of 2023. ARPU as of March 31, 2024 increased 5% compared to March 31, 2023 driven primarily by a shift in mix towards our higher priced subscription offerings. ARPU was also impacted by the exit of certain channel partner relationships in the third quarter of 2023 and by the introduction of our forms and e-signature subscription offerings, both of which carry lower price points. 26 Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 68,384 $ 60,395 $ 7,989 13 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased by $8.0 million mainly due to a $3.2 million increase in filing fees and a $1.8 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. The increase in filing fees was primarily driven by filing fees related to business formations during the three months ended March 31, 2024 in certain states that temporarily halted charging filing fees in the first half of 2023. Gross profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 105,830 $ 105,541 $ 289 % Gross profit was flat for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to three months ended March 31, 2023, as the $8.3 million increase in revenue was offset by an $8.0 million increase in cost of revenue. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 53,753 $ 60,150 $ (6,397) (11 %) Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 decreased primarily due to a $6.0 million reduction in payroll and related benefits largely due to a reduction in sales and marketing headcount. Customer acquisition marketing spend was $40.6 million and $40.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Technology and development Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 23,957 $ 19,683 $ 4,274 22 % Technology and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased primarily due to an increase in payroll and related benefits largely due to increased technology and development headcount. 27 General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 23,065 $ 26,504 $ (3,439) (13 %) General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 decreased primarily due to a $3.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation. Interest expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (61) $ (84) $ 23 (27 %) Interest expense consists primarily of amortization of debt issuance costs related to our 2021 Revolving Facility. Interest income Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 2,887 $ 1,665 $ 1,222 73 % The change in interest income was primarily due to dividend income generated from our money market investments during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Other (expense) income, net Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Other (expense) income, net $ 93 $ 694 $ (601) (87 %) The change in other (expense) income, net, between 2024 and 2023 was primarily due to changes in foreign currency movements related to our intercompany loans which were denominated in British Pound Sterling, or GBP. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ change % change (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 3,230 $ 3,837 $ (607) (16 %) Effective tax rate 40.5 % 259.4 % The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2024 resulted from a $0.6 million favorable change as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was primarily due to higher pre-tax book income and non-deductible stock-based compensation for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This resulted in a lower effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2024 28 compared to a lower pre-tax income with a higher effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We fund our operations and capital expenditures from cash flows from operating activities. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are to finance working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. At March 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $228.1 million, which consisted of cash on deposit with banks and money market funds, of which approximately $2.7 million related to our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $2.4 million from December 31, 2023 to March 31, 2024, primarily as a result of cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment and stock repurchases during the three months ended March 31, 2024. We currently anticipate that our available cash, cash equivalents and cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our operational cash needs for at least the next twelve months and in the foreseeable future. We have the ability to supplement our liquidity needs over the longer term with borrowings under our 2021 Revolving Facility. In addition, we previously announced our intention to sell our operating headquarters in Austin, Texas, which is discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We have historically considered the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested, and accordingly no taxes have been provided on such earnings. We continue to evaluate our plans for reinvestment or repatriation of unremitting foreign earnings and have not changed our previous indefinite reinvestment determination following the enactment of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or Tax Act. We have not repatriated funds to the U.S. to satisfy domestic liquidity needs, nor do we anticipate the need to do so. If we determine that all or a portion of our foreign earnings are no longer indefinitely reinvested, we may be subject to foreign withholding taxes and U.S. state income taxes. In October 2023, our board of directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which our management is authorized to repurchase up to $100.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time. At March 31, 2024, approximately $87.2 million remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under the stock repurchase program. For additional information regarding our stock repurchase program, refer to Note 7 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Borrowings 2021 Revolving Facility On July 2, 2021, we entered into our 2021 Revolving Facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the administrative agent. The 2021 Revolving Facility, as amended, provides for the issuance of up to $20.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans, in an amount of up to $10.0 million. As of March 31, 2024, we had no borrowings outstanding and $150.0 million was available for use under our 2021 Revolving Facility. Subject to the satisfaction of certain criteria, we will be able to increase the 2021 Revolving Facility by an amount equal to the sum of (i) the greater of $90.0 million and 75% of consolidated last twelve months cash earnings before interest expense, tax, depreciation and amortization, or LTM CEBITDA, plus (ii) unused amounts under the general debt basket (i.e., an amount equal to the greater of $50.0 million and an equivalent percentage of consolidated LTM CEBITDA), plus (iii) an unlimited amount so long as we are in pro forma compliance with the Financial Covenant (as defined below), in each case, with the consent of the lenders participating in the increase. We are required to pay a commitment fee in respect of unutilized commitments under the 2021 Revolving Facility. The commitment fee is, initially, 0.35% per annum. The commitment fee is subject to a reduction of 0.10% if the total net first lien leverage ratio does not exceed 3.50 to 1.00. We are also required to pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees. As of March 31, 2024, the interest rate applicable to the 2021 Revolving Facility was subject to a 1.0% floor and was at a rate equal to the greatest of: (i) the administrative agents prime rate; (ii) the federal funds effective rate plus 1/2 of 1.0%; and (iii) the secured overnight financing rate, or SOFR, plus a 0.10% credit spread adjustment to the SOFR benchmark, or Adjusted Term SOFR, plus 1.0%; provided that if the Adjusted Term SOFR is less than zero, the Adjusted Term SOFR shall be deemed to be zero. The interest rate margins under the 2021 Revolving Facility are subject to a reduction of 0.25% and a further reduction of 0.25% if the total net first lien leverage ratio does not exceed 3.50 to 1.00 and 2.50 to 1.00, respectively. 29 We have the option to voluntarily repay outstanding loans at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs with respect to SOFR loans. There is no scheduled amortization under the 2021 Revolving Facility. The principal amount outstanding is due and payable in full at maturity on July 1, 2026. Obligations under the 2021 Revolving Facility are guaranteed by our existing and future direct and indirect material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. The 2021 Revolving Facility is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the borrower and the guarantors, subject to certain exceptions. The 2021 Revolving Facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; create or incur liens; pay dividends and distributions or repurchase capital stock; merge, liquidate and make asset sales; change lines of business; change our fiscal year; incur restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to make distributions and create liens; modify our organizational documents; make investments, loans and advances; and enter into certain transactions with affiliates. The 2021 Revolving Facility requires compliance with a total net first lien leverage ratio of 4.50 to 1.00, or the Financial Covenant. The Financial Covenant will be tested at quarter-end only if the total principal amount of all revolving loans, swingline loans and drawn letters of credit that have not been reimbursed exceeds 35% of the total commitments under the 2021 Revolving Facility on the last day of such fiscal quarter. Cash flows The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 34,194 $ 29,208 Net cash used in investing activities (9,477) (7,428) Net cash used in financing activities (22,271) (6,755) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (36) 19 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 2,410 $ 15,044 Net cash provided by operating activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our customers for our transaction products and subscription services. Our primary uses of cash in operating activities are for our fulfillment, production and customer care costs, employee salaries and benefits, sales and marketing expenses and third-party consulting expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities is impacted by our net income (loss) adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation and impairments of long-lived assets, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities. In the three months ended March 31, 2024, cash provided by operating activities was $34.2 million resulting from net income of $4.7 million, adjusted for stock-based compensation and other non-cash expenses of $24.9 million and net cash flows provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $4.6 million. The $4.6 million of net cash flows provided from changes in our operating assets and liabilities included a $19.6 million increase in deferred revenue largely due to growth of our subscription units, which are predominantly billed in advance of our revenue recognition and a $1.4 million increase in accounts payable, partially offset by a $4.0 million increase in accounts receivable, a $2.8 million increase in prepaid and other current assets, and a $9.7 million reduction in accrued expenses and operating lease liability and other liabilities due to the timing of our payments. Net cash used in investing activities Our primary investing activities have consisted of capital expenditures to purchase property and equipment necessary to support our customer contact center, network and operations, the capitalization of internal-use software necessary to develop and maintain our platform and deliver new products and features, which provide value to our customers, business acquisitions and investments in other companies. As our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures to continue to increase. In the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $9.5 million resulting primarily from purchases of property and equipment, including capitalization of internal-use software. 30 Net cash used in financing activities Our primary uses of cash in financing activities are for repurchases of common stock and settlements of stock options and RSUs. Net cash provided by financing activities is primarily impacted by exercises of stock options by our employees and issuance of common stock. In the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $22.3 million, resulting from $12.8 million in repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase program and a $9.6 million settlement of minimum statutory tax withholding upon vesting of RSUs. Material Cash Requirements We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, as well as cash expected to be generated by future operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our material cash requirements for the next twelve months. Our material cash requirements include the below contractual and other obligations: Commitments We have non-cancelable agreements with various vendors, which require us to pay $49.6 million over a four-year period, of which $33.0 million remains to be paid as of March 31, 2024. Lease Obligations At March 31, 2024, we had various non-cancelable operating leases for office space and equipment, which expire between May 2024 and November 2029. As of March 31, 2024, we had total minimum operating lease maturities of $9.5 million, $1.7 million of which mature within nine months. See Note 8 of our consolidated financial statements included in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our future operating lease payments. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to understand and evaluate our core operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different from similarly titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and liquidity and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our financial performance and liquidity, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects and allow for greater transparency with respect to important measures used by our management for financial and operational decision-making. We are presenting these non-GAAP measures to assist investors in seeing our financial performance using a management view and because we believe that these measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) adjusted to exclude interest expense, interest income, provision for (benefit from) income taxes, depreciation and amortization, other expense (income), net, stock-based compensation, impairment of goodwill, long-lived and other assets, restructuring expenses, legal expenses, transaction-related expenses and certain other non-recurring income and expenses from time to time. Our Adjusted EBITDA financial measure differs from GAAP in that it excludes certain items of income and expense. We define Adjusted EBITDA margin as Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. We define net income (loss) margin as net income (loss) as a percentage of revenue based on our consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is one of the primary performance measures used by our management and our board of directors to understand and evaluate our financial performance and operating trends, including period-to-period comparisons, prepare and approve our annual budget, develop short and long-term operational plans and determine appropriate compensation plans for our employees. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. In assessing our performance, we exclude certain expenses that we believe are not comparable period over period or that we believe are not indicative of our underlying operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation of, or as an alternative to, measures prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of Adjusted EBITDA rather than net income (loss), which is the nearest GAAP equivalent of Adjusted EBITDA. Some of these limitations include that the non-GAAP financial measure: 31 may be calculated differently by other companies in our industry, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure; does not reflect our capital expenditures, future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; excludes depreciation and amortization and, although these are non-cash expenses, the assets being depreciated may be replaced in the future; does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; excludes stock-based compensation expense, which has been, and will continue to be, a significant recurring expense for our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; and does not reflect certain other expenses that we do not consider representative of our underlying operating performance, but that reduce cash available to us. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands, except percentages) Reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA Net income (loss) $ 4,744 $ (2,358) Interest expense 61 84 Interest income (2,887) (1,665) Provision for income taxes 3,230 3,837 Depreciation and amortization 7,670 5,569 Other (income) expense, net (93) (693) Stock-based compensation 14,856 16,467 Restructuring costs(1) 321 627 Adjusted EBITDA $ 27,902 $ 21,868 Net income (loss) margin 3 % (1 %) Adjusted EBITDA margin 16 % 13 % (1) For 2024, restructuring expenses related to the reduction of our U.S. headcount. For 2023, restructuring expenses related to the reduction of our U.K. headcount, which was substantially complete by December 31, 2023. Adjusted EBITDA increased from $21.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $27.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase of $6.0 million resulted primarily from an increase in revenue of $8.3 million and a reduction in operating expenses, excluding non-cash and non-recurring items, of $3.2 million, partially offset by a $5.4 million increase in cost of revenue, excluding non-cash items. Free cash flow Free cash flow is a liquidity measure used by management in evaluating the cash generated by our operations after purchases of property and equipment including capitalized internal-use software. We consider free cash flow to be an important measure because it provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by our business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business and strengthening our balance sheet. Once our business needs and obligations are met, cash can be used to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in future growth. The usefulness of free cash flow as an analytical tool has limitations because it excludes certain items that are settled in cash, does not represent residual cash flow available for discretionary expenses, does not reflect our future contractual commitments, and may be calculated differently by other companies in our industry. Accordingly, it should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net cash used in or provided by operating activities. The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, to free cash flow: 32 Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Free Cash Flow Net cash provided by operating activities $ 34,194 $ 29,208 Purchase of property and equipment (9,477) (7,428) Free cash flow $ 24,717 $ 21,780 We experienced an increase in our free cash flow from $21.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $24.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to a $5.0 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities resulted from a $7.6 million increase in net income after adjusting for stock-based compensation and other non-cash items, partially offset by a $2.7 million unfavorable change in our operating assets and liabilities. Free cash flow was also impacted by higher capital expenditures for the purchase of property and equipment, including capitalization of internal-use software. Critical Accounting Estimates During the three months ended March 31, 2024, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting estimates compared with those disclosed described under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on certain accounting standards adopted in the period ended March 31, 2024 and recent accounting announcements that have not yet been required to be implemented and may be applicable to our future operations.