Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We use the terms Company, we, us, and our to refer collectively to Leidos Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. On March 20, 2015, the Board of Directors approved the amendment and restatement of the bylaws of Leidos to change Leidos' year end from the Friday nearest the end of January to the Friday nearest the end of December. As a result of this change, the Company filed a Transition Report on Form 10-K for the 11-month period which began on January 31, 2015, and ended on January 1, 2016. This change did not impact the Company's prior reported fiscal years (each covering a 12-month period), each of which ended on the Friday closest to January 31. For example, fiscal 2015 began on February 1, 2014, and ended on January 30, 2015. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for fiscal 2016, which covers a 12-month period that began on January 2, 2016, and ended on December 30, 2016. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 1 Table of Contents PART I Our Business Segments At December 30, 2016, our business is aligned into four reportable segments: National Security Solutions ("NSS"), Information Systems & Global Solutions ("IS&GS"), Health and Infrastructure ("HIS") and Corporate and Other. While each reportable segment is organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets, the IS&GS reportable segment comprises the IS&GS business acquired on August 16, 2016. We provide a wide array of scientific, engineering and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments. The majority of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States. National Security Solutions National Security Solutions is focused on rapidly deploying agile, cost-effective solutions to meet the ever-changing missions of our customers in the areas of intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance, integrated systems and cybersecurity and global services. We provide a diverse portfolio of national security solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. Intelligence Community, the DoD, military services, DHS, government agencies of U.S. allies abroad and other federal, civilian and commercial customers in the national security industry. Our solutions deliver innovative technology, large-scale intelligence systems, command and control, data analytics, logistics and cybersecurity solutions, as well as intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. National Security Solutions represented 51% , 68% and 71% of total revenues for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, respectively. Our national security business offers broad technology, development and integration capabilities and is responsible for leading our efforts in surveillance and reconnaissance, integrated systems solutions and global services for the U.S. Intelligence Community, military commands and other government and commercial customers. Surveillance and Reconnaissance - We offer a wide range of technologies in multiple domains that address the nations most critical threats and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and military services. A primary focus is on the DoDs technology organizations, which include the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Army Research Lab, Air Force Research Lab and Navy Research Lab. Our market concentration is on airborne, maritime and command and control. We provide multi-spectral, airborne, ground and maritime intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance ("ISR") collection and processing systems, advanced sensor design, command and control solutions and training systems. Integrated Systems - We offer extensive software development capabilities for intelligence and information systems and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD, military services, DHS and the U.K. Ministry of Defense ("U.K. MoD"). Our markets include cybersecurity, data analytics and logistics. Our cybersecurity solutions detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. We are highly skilled in data analytics, and we design, develop, deploy and support information-centric software systems for complex, data-driven national security challenges. Our logistics offerings include enterprise platforms that speed the supply chain of highly complex systems. Global Services - We provide high-end services to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and federal civilian agencies. Operating around the world daily, we provide intelligence analysis, operational support, security, linguistics and training. In addition, we deliver tailored IT services and solutions to our customers across the globe. Information Systems & Global Solutions On January 26, 2016, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement (as amended, the "Merger Agreement") with Lockheed Martin Corporation ("Lockheed Martin"); Abacus Innovations Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Lockheed Martin ("Splitco"); and Lion Merger Co., a Delaware corporation and, at the time of announcement, a wholly owned subsidiary of Leidos ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to which we would combine with Lockheed Martins realigned Information Systems & Global Solutions business (the "IS&GS Business") in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction. In connection with the Merger Agreement, Lockheed Martin and Splitco entered into a Separation Agreement dated January 26, 2016 (as amended, the "Separation Agreement"), pursuant to which Lockheed Martin would separate the IS&GS Business from Lockheed Martin and transfer the IS&GS Business to Splitco. The transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and the Separation Agreement are referred to herein as the Transactions. On August 16, 2016, the acquisition date, the Company completed the Transactions. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 2 Table of Contents PART I Our IS&GS business focuses on being a leading provider of information technology ("IT"), management and engineering services to civil, defense and intelligence agencies of the U.S. Government. IS&GS's major customers include the DHS, the Department of the Treasury, DoD and the branches of the U.S. military. IS&GS also has certain international customers who are primarily located in the United Kingdom, the Middle East and Australia. Since being acquired on August 16, 2016, IS&GS represented 28% of total revenues for fiscal 2016. Our IS&GS business also provides data analytics, systems engineering, large-scale agile software development, network-enabled situational awareness solutions, communications and command and control capability and global systems integration, to help customers gather, analyze and securely distribute intelligence data to address complex and pressing challenges, such as combating global terrorism, cybersecurity, air traffic management, energy demand management and transforming the healthcare system. Our business is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Enterprise IT Services - We deliver enterprise operations; network services and communications; application management and optimization; data center operations, migration and consolidation; and data storage. We apply these solutions to physical, virtualized cloud, and hybrid form networks and provide the services and oversight clients require for IT infrastructure transformation, implementation and operations. Software Development and Integrated Systems - We offer extensive software development capabilities for intelligence and information systems and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD, military services, DHS and the U.K. MoD. Software and integrated systems offerings include development of small and large scale information technology applications, embedded systems, and mobile applications. We deliver expertise across an extensive list of programming languages applicable to traditional, cloud, mobile and embedded applications and employ additional and agile development methods depending on the application. Cybersecurity - We provide cybersecurity solutions with deep technical, analytic, and cyber mission experience that help clients anticipate threats to their networks and their data, ensure their cyber approach is executed with established best practices and enable them to respond to cyber events. Our cybersecurity solutions detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. We design, develop, deploy and support information-centric software systems for complex, data-driven national security challenges and have a significant cybersecurity business based on its military and intelligence work with the federal government. Data Analytics - Our data analytics services provide clients with the resources to make informed decisions to maximize performance by leveraging a wide range of problem-solving techniques including simulation, mathematical optimization, queuing theory, and machine learning to improve decision-making and efficiency. Air Traffic Management - We deliver air traffic management systems and expertise and deploy some of the worlds most advanced and cost-effective systems to provide air traffic management solutions to U.S. and international customers. Solutions include the En Route Automation Modernization system for the Federal Aviation Administrations Next Generation Air Transportation System; air traffic optimization, including Time Based Flow Management, enabling air traffic controllers to manage aircraft in congested airspace more efficiently; and Flight Services supporting pre-flight, inflight, operational and special services, en route communications, search and rescue services and aeronautical and meteorological information analytics. Health Management Services - We manage critical data and infrastructure for some of the largest federal agencies in the U.S. healthcare system. We provide customers with the ability to integrate technology, people and processes into efficient, secure and scalable operations to secure patient information and support better healthcare outcomes through data management; security; interoperability capabilities for next generation data centers; health IT system modernization; and big data analytics. Energy Management and Operations - We provide environmental services and solutions to the U.S. Government and commercial customers both directly and through joint ventures that perform management and operations (M&O) services at U.S. Government sites. These services and solutions include M&O services at the U.S. Governments former nuclear fuel production site in Hanford, Washington and M&O services at the Y-12 national security site in Oak Ridge, Tennessee and the Pantex site in Amarillo, Texas; critical infrastructure for nuclear operations and national nuclear materials tracking, engineering systems; and national environmental emergency response. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 3 Table of Contents PART I Acquisition, Program Management and Logistics - Our acquisition, program management, and logistics capabilities help clients design, implement and deliver a wide range of operational programs, including those related to acquisition and contracts, supplier and budget management. Services delivered include strategy development, policy support, logistics management, staff development and deployment, modeling and simulation, testing and validation, information assurance and data management. Solutions include mission critical 24x7 M&O services, development and engineering support, complex logistics and infrastructure support in some of the harshest environments in the world; and human capital and training solutions. Health and Infrastructure Our Health and Infrastructure businesses capitalize on our knowledge and experience in technology and innovation. Major customers of Health and Infrastructure primarily include the U.S. federal government, state and local governmental agencies, foreign governments, healthcare providers and commercial enterprises in various industries. Health and Infrastructure represented 21% , 32% and 29% of total revenues for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, respectively. Our Health business provides services and solutions to commercial hospitals, the DoD and other U.S. Government agencies focused on information technology and behavioral health and life sciences offerings. Our healthcare business is focused on the overall availability and quality of electronic health data, clinical care optimization and life sciences research and development that ultimately improves the quality of care while lowering cost for our customers. Federal Health - We developed, fielded and currently maintain a full end-to-end Electronic Health Record ("EHR") system for the DoD. We are currently working on developing the next generation EHR system that will be deployed to DoD hospitals and other sites worldwide. We provide information technology solutions, scientific support and behavioral health services to the Veterans Administration, National Institutes of Health, DoD and other government customers. Within the DoD, we serve the Defense Health Agency, which provides healthcare to active duty and retired military personnel and their dependents. We strive to improve the availability, quality and cost effectiveness of healthcare for our military service members and their families. Commercial Health - We implement and optimize EHR systems at commercial hospitals. In addition, we provide consulting services and operational support focused on addressing health care legislation for Meaningful Use and ICD-10 transition, IT strategy, revenue cycle management, accountable care transformation, risk management, technology infrastructure and project management. Our teams are staffed with clinical subject matter experts who draw upon their deep experience and knowledge of healthcare and IT systems. Life Sciences - We provide life science research and development support to the National Institutes of Health, Center for Disease Control, Army Medical Research community, commercial biotech companies and the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, where we employ about 2,100 scientists, technicians, administrators and support staff. Our professionals operate a wide range of leading-edge research and development laboratories in the areas of genetics and genomics, proteins and proteomics, advanced biomedical computing and information technology, biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing, nanotechnology characterization and clinical trials management. Our Infrastructure business is focused on seamlessly integrating and protecting physical, digital and data domains. By applying leading science, effective technologies and business acumen, our forward thinkers are helping customers maximize their performance and take on the connected world with data-driven insights, improved efficiencies and technological advantages. We carry out our engineering business in four key areas of expertise: Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 4 Table of Contents PART I Security Products - We provide security products, services and solutions that leverage our design, integration and process engineering technologies to build small footprint, minimally-intrusive secure commerce systems for our customers. Our Vehicle and Cargo Inspection System ("VACIS") systems enable the rapid scanning of vehicles and cargo using patented technology that produces a high-quality image using a low radiation dose while using less space and processing higher volumes of cars and trucks than other scanning systems. Our Reveal line of explosive detection systems for checked airline baggage pioneered the reduced size segment of this market with small, flexible systems that can be installed at airport check-in counters. We also have a line of radiation detection systems, which are used today at ports, border crossings and industrial facilities around the world - including most ports and border crossings in the United States. Power Grid Engineering - We provide power grid engineering services and solutions to a broad customer set and have unique offerings including a Smart Grid as a Service ("SGS") solution. We are working with energy companies to develop analytical products that fully exploit the data enabled by smart grid technology. We provide engineering and consulting to electric utilities and transmission companies. Our focus is on engineering design of the grid from distribution through transmission and significant substation design and upgrade work. We provide physical and cybersecurity for our utility customers as part of our substantive offerings. We also administer energy efficiency programs for states and utilities and provide an array of consulting services for utilities. Federal Environmental and Engineering - We provide environmental consulting and engineering services, primarily for the DoD. We support the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA") as well as other supporting activities. We also have specialty consulting services associated with specific environmental issues, such as underwater environmental issues, radiologic clean up, risk assessment training ranges and other specific needs. We support site cleanup and remediation efforts. Transaction and Valuation Consulting - We provide transaction and asset valuation services for the power industry. Our primary customers are the large lending institutions that require a comprehensive assessment of proposed projects for financing. Our analysts study technologies, designs, operational plans, fuel needs and financial trends in power markets to evaluate the viability of projects. We also provide oversight work at project sites on behalf of lenders or owners. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other business segment includes the operations of various corporate activities, certain expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. Government customers and certain other revenue and expense items excluded from a reportable segments performance. Corporate and Other represented an immaterial percentage of revenue for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015. Acquisitions and Divestitures On August 16, 2016, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leidos Holdings, Inc. merged with the Information Systems & Global Solutions business (the "IS&GS Business") of Lockheed Martin Corporation in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction. The acquired IS&GS Business was renamed Leidos Innovations Corporation. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLockheed Martin Transaction" and "Note 2Acquisitions" for a further description of the Lockheed Martin Transaction. During fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, we divested six businesses. Three of these non-strategic divestitures were reclassified as discontinued operations on a retrospective basis. For further information, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsDivestitures" and "Note 3Divestitures." Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 5 Table of Contents PART I Key Customers The majority of our revenues are generated in the United States. Our total revenues are largely attributable to prime contracts or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government, with the remaining attributable to international customers, including the U.K. MoD, and customers across a variety of commercial markets. Within the U.S. Government, our revenues are diversified across many agencies, including various intelligence agencies, the U.S. Army, Navy and Air Force, DHS, FAA, the Transportation Security Agency, the Defense Health Agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ("NASA") and research agencies like the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ("DARPA"). The percentage of total revenues for the U.S. Government, its agencies and other customers comprising more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, were as follows: 12 Months Ended 11 Months Ended 12 Months Ended December 30, 2016 January 1, 2016 January 30, 2015 U.S. Government 81 % 76 % 79 % U.S. DoD 56 % 64 % 67 % U.S. Army 14 % 14 % 16 % Maryland Procurement Office 7 % 10 % 10 % These customers have a number of subsidiary agencies that have separate budgets and procurement functions. Our contracts may be with the highest level of these agencies or with the subsidiary agencies of these customers. Employees As part of our acquisition of the IS&GS Business, we gained approximately 15,000 additional employees. As of December 30, 2016, we employed approximately 32,000 full and part-time employees in 26 countries worldwide. The experience and expertise of our employees makes Leidos capable of solving our customers' most challenging technical problems. Approximately 42% of our employees have degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics fields, over 1,000 employees have doctoral degrees, nearly 40% of our employees possess security clearances and approximately 20% of our employees are military veterans. Research and Development We conduct research and development activities under customer-funded contracts and with company-funded internal research and development ("IR&D") funds. IR&D efforts consist of projects involving basic research, applied research, development and systems and other concept formulation studies. IR&D expenses are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to U.S. Government contracts. For fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, our company-funded IR&D expense was $44 million , $29 million and $37 million , respectively, which as a percentage of sales was 0.6% , 0.6% and 0.7% , respectively. We charge expenses for research and development activities performed under customer contracts directly to cost of revenues for those contracts. Intellectual Property Rights Our technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, although we do selectively seek patent protection. We claim a proprietary interest in certain of our products, software programs, methodologies and know-how. This proprietary information is protected in confidence as trade secrets, using non-disclosure agreements, contracts and other definitive agreements. We selectively pursue opportunities to license or transfer our technologies to third parties. In connection with the performance of services and solutions, the U.S. Government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. Generally, the U.S. Government may disclose or license such information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors. In the case of some subcontracts that we perform, the prime contractor generally obtains rights to use the programs and products that we deliver under the subcontract to perform its prime contract obligations. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 6 Table of Contents PART I Competition Competition for contracts is intense, and we often compete against a large number of established multinational corporations that may have greater name and brand recognition. We also compete against smaller, more specialized companies that concentrate their resources on particular areas, as well as the U.S. Governments own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. As a result of the diverse requirements of the U.S. Government and our commercial customers, we frequently collaborate with other companies to compete for large contracts and bid against these same companies in other situations. We believe that our principal competitors currently include the following companies: the engineering and technical services divisions of large defense contractors that provide U.S. Government IT services in addition to other hardware systems and products, including companies such as The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems plc, L-3 Communications Corporation and Raytheon Company; contractors focused principally on technical services, including U.S. Government IT services, such as Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., Engility Holdings, Inc., CACI International Inc., ManTech International Corporation, SAIC, Vencore and KeyW; diversified commercial and U.S. Government IT providers, such as Accenture plc, CSRA, Inc., HP Enterprise Services, International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), Dell, Amazon Web Services, AT&T, RSA, Verizon and Unisys Corporation; contractors focused on supplying homeland security product solutions, including OSI Systems, Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, Morpho (Safran) and Smiths Group plc; contractors providing supply chain management and other logistics services, including Agility Logistics Corp., PAE and Vectrus; and companies focused on providing health solutions and services to the U.S. Government and hospitals, including Accenture plc, IBM, CSRA, Inc., LHI, Maximus, Epic Systems and Medical Information Technology, Inc. ("Meditech"). We compete on various factors, including our technical expertise and qualified professional and/or security-cleared personnel; our ability to deliver innovative cost-effective solutions in a timely manner; successful program execution; our reputation and standing with customers; pricing; and the size and geographic presence of our company. The U.S. Government has indicated that it intends to increase competition for future procurement of products and services, which has led to fewer sole source awards and more emphasis on cost-competitiveness and affordability. The U.S. Government is also committed to maintaining a socioeconomically diverse base of suppliers, which may lead to contracts being set aside for smaller businesses. In addition, procurement initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus priorities and enhance best practices could result in fewer new opportunities for our industry as a whole, which would intensify competition within the industry as companies compete for a more limited set of new programs. Contract Procurement Our business is heavily regulated and we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other contracts. The U.S. Government procurement environment has evolved due to statutory and regulatory procurement reform initiatives. Today, U.S. Government customers employ several contracting methods to purchase services and products. Budgetary pressures and reforms in the procurement process have caused many U.S. Government customers to increasingly purchase services and products using contracting methods that give them the ability to select multiple contract winners or pre-qualify certain contractors to provide services or products on established general terms and conditions rather than through single award contracts. The predominant contracting methods through which U.S. Government agencies procure services and products include the following: Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 7 Table of Contents PART I Definitive Award Contracts. U.S. Government agencies may procure services and products through single definitive award contracts which specify the scope of services or products purchased and identify the contractor that will provide the specified services or products. When an agency has a requirement, the agency will issue a solicitation or request for proposal to which interested contractors can submit a proposal. The bidding and selection process can take a year or more to complete. For the contractor, this method of contracting may provide greater certainty of the timing and amounts to be received at the time of contract award because it generally results in the customer contracting for a specific scope of services or products from the single definitive successful awardee. Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity ("IDIQ") Contracts. The U.S. Government uses IDIQ contracts to obtain commitments from contractors to provide certain services or products on pre-established terms and conditions. The U.S. Government then issues task orders under the IDIQ contracts to purchase the specific services or products it needs. IDIQ contracts are awarded to one or more contractors following a competitive procurement process. Under a single-award IDIQ contract, all task orders under that contract are awarded to one pre-established contractor. Under a multiple-award IDIQ contract, task orders can be awarded to any of the pre-established contractors, which can result in further limited competition for the award of task orders. Multiple-award IDIQ contracts that are open for any government agency to use for procurement are commonly referred to as government-wide acquisition contracts. IDIQ contracts often have multi-year terms and unfunded ceiling amounts, therefore enabling, but not committing, the U.S. Government to purchase substantial amounts of services or products from one or more contractors. At the time an IDIQ contract is awarded (prior to the award of any task orders), a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract, and in the case of a multiple-award IDIQ, the contractor from which such purchases may be made. U.S. General Services Administration ("GSA") Schedule Contracts. The GSA maintains listings of approved suppliers of services and products with agreed-upon prices for use throughout the U.S. Government. In order for a company to provide services under a GSA Schedule contract, a company must be pre-qualified and awarded a contract by the GSA. When an agency uses a GSA Schedule contract to meet its requirements, the agency, or the GSA on behalf of the agency, conducts the procurement. The user agency, or the GSA on its behalf, evaluates the user agencys requirements and initiates a competition limited to GSA Schedule qualified contractors. GSA Schedule contracts are designed to provide the user agency with reduced procurement time and lower procurement costs. Similar to IDIQ contracts, at the time a GSA Schedule contract is awarded, a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract. We often partner with other companies, including our competitors, to submit bids for large U.S. Government procurements or other opportunities where we believe that the combination of services and products that we can provide as a team will help us win and perform the contract. Our relationships with our partners, including whether we serve as the prime contractor or as a subcontractor, vary with each contract opportunity and typically depend on the program, contract or customer requirements, as well as the relative size, qualifications, capabilities, customer relationships and experience of our company and our partners. Contracting with the U.S. Government also subjects us to substantial regulation and unique risks, including the U.S. Governments ability to cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed where the U.S. Government issues a termination for convenience. These regulations and risks are described in more detail below under BusinessRegulation and Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 8 Table of Contents PART I Contract Types Generally, the type of contract for our services and products is determined by or negotiated with the U.S. Government and may depend on certain factors, including the type and complexity of the work to be performed, degree and timing of the responsibility to be assumed by the contractor for the costs of performance, the extent of price competition and the amount and nature of the profit incentive offered to the contractor for achieving or exceeding specified standards or goals. We generate revenues under several types of contracts, including the following: Cost-reimbursement contracts include cost-plus-fixed-fee, award-fee and incentive - fee contracts. These contracts provide for reimbursement of our direct contract costs and allocable indirect costs, plus a fee. These contracts are generally used when uncertainties involved in contract performance do not permit costs to be estimated with sufficient accuracy to use a fixed-price contract. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk but generally require us to use our best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within a specified time and budget. Award and incentive fees are generally based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality and/or technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on customer evaluation of the company's performance against contractual criteria. Incentive fees that are based on cost provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later, typically using a formula to measure performance against the associated criteria, based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs. Fixed-price-incentive fee (FP-IF) contracts are substantially similar to cost plus incentive fee contracts except they require specified targets for cost and profit, price ceiling (but not a profit ceiling or floor) and profit adjustment formula. Under a FP-IF contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement but are subject to a cost-share arrangement, which affects profitability. Generally, if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. Time-and-materials ("T&M") contracts typically provide for negotiated fixed hourly rates for specified categories of direct labor plus reimbursement of other direct costs. This type of contract is generally used when there is uncertainty about the extent or duration of the work to be performed by the contractor at the time of contract award or it is not possible to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of confidence. On T&M contracts, we assume the risk of providing appropriately qualified staff to perform these contracts at the hourly rates set forth in the contracts over the period of performance of the contracts. Fixed-price-level-of-effort ("FP-LOE") contracts are substantially similar to T&M contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated period of time on work that can be stated only in general terms. This type of contract is generally used when the contractor is required to perform an investigation or study in a specific research and development area and to provide a report showing the results achieved based on the level of effort. Payment is based on the effort expended rather than the results achieved. Firm-fixed-price ("FFP") contracts provide for a fixed price for specified products, systems and/or services. This type of contract is generally used when the government acquires products and services on the basis of reasonably definitive specifications and which have a determinable fair and reasonable price. These contracts offer us potential increased profits if we can complete the work at lower costs than planned. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost-reimbursement and T&M contracts generally have lower profitability than FFP contracts. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 9 Table of Contents PART I Backlog Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. Our backlog consists of funded backlog and negotiated unfunded backlog, each of which are described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog from U.S. Government customers as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. In addition, certain contracts with commercial or non-U.S. Federal Government customers included in funded backlog may include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Many of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. For additional discussion and analysis of backlog, see "Results of OperationsBookings and Backlog in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality The U.S. Government's fiscal year ends on September 30 of each year. While not certain, it is not uncommon for U.S. Government agencies to award extra tasks or complete other contract actions in the timeframe leading up to the end of its fiscal year in order to avoid the loss of unexpended fiscal year funds, which may favorably impact our third fiscal quarter. In addition, our quarterly results may be impacted by the number of working days in a given quarter. We tend to generate less revenue from our labor services during the fourth quarter as a result of the holiday season. For selected quarterly financial data, see "Note 22Selected Quarterly Financial Data" of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Regulation We are heavily regulated in most of the fields in which we operate. We provide services and products to numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including to the DoD, the U.S. Intelligence Community and the DHS. When working with these and other U.S. Government agencies and entities, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of contracts. U.S. Government contracts generally are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR"), which sets forth policies, procedures and requirements for the acquisition of goods and services by the U.S. Government, agency-specific regulations that implement or supplement the FAR, such as Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement ("DFARS") and other applicable laws and regulations. These regulations impose a broad range of requirements, many of which are unique to government contracting, including various procurement, import and export, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment and audit requirements. Among other things, these laws and regulations: require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under various cost-type U.S. Government contracts; require compliance with U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards ("CAS"); require reviews by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"), Defense Contract Management Agency ("DCMA") and other U.S. Government agencies of compliance with government requirements for a contractors business systems; restrict the use and dissemination of unclassified contract-related information and information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data; and require us not to compete for work if an actual or potential organizational conflict of interest, as defined by these laws and regulations, related to such work exists and/or cannot be appropriately mitigated, neutralized or avoided. The U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations at any time. In order to help ensure compliance with these complex laws and regulations, all of our employees are required to complete ethics and other compliance trainings relevant to their position. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 10 Table of Contents PART I Some of our operations and service offerings involve access to and use by us of personally identifiable information and/or protected health information. These activities are regulated by extensive federal and state privacy and data security laws requiring organizations to provide certain privacy protections and security safeguards for such information. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, our operations may become subject to future laws and regulations, including those related to climate change and environmental sustainability. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for further details. Although we do not currently anticipate that the costs of complying with, or the liabilities associated with, environmental laws will materially and adversely affect us, we cannot ensure that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future. Company Website and Information Our website can be accessed at www.leidos.com . The website contains information about our company and operations. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, copies of each of our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, can be viewed and downloaded free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into and is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may request a copy of the materials identified in the preceding paragraph, at no cost, by writing or telephoning us at our corporate headquarters at the following: Leidos Holdings, Inc. 11951 Freedom Drive Reston, VA 20190 Attention: Corporate Secretary Telephone: (571) 526-6000 Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 11 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A. Risk Factors In your evaluation of our company and business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed and the price of our stock could decline. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as our ability to collect receivables, overall U.S. and global economic and industry conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, climate change or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially harm our business, financial condition or operating results and result in a decline in the price of our stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend on government agencies as our primary customer and if our reputation or relationships with these agencies were harmed, our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected. We generated 81% , 76% and 79% of our total revenues during fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, respectively, from contracts with the U.S. Government (including all branches of the U.S. military), either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. We generated more than 10% of our total revenues during fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015 from the U.S. Army. We expect to continue to derive most of our revenues from work performed under U.S. Government contracts. Our reputation and relationship with the U.S. Government, and in particular with the agencies of the DoD and the U.S. Intelligence Community, are key factors in maintaining and growing our revenues. Negative press reports or publicity, which could pertain to employee or subcontractor misconduct, conflicts of interest, poor contract performance, deficiencies in services, reports, products or other deliverables, information security breaches or other aspects of our business, regardless of accuracy, could harm our reputation, particularly with these agencies. If our reputation is negatively affected, or if we are suspended or debarred from contracting with government agencies for any reason, the amount of business with government and other customers would decrease and our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected. A decline in the U.S. Government budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities or delays in contract awards may significantly and adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. Revenues under contracts with the DoD, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor to other contractors, represented approximately 56% of our total revenues for fiscal 2016. Levels of DoD spending are difficult to predict and subject to significant risk. Our operating results could be adversely affected by spending caps or changes in the budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government or the DoD, as well as delays in program starts or the award of contracts or task orders under contracts. Current U.S. Government spending levels for defense-related programs may not be sustained and future spending and program authorizations may not increase or may decrease or shift to programs in areas in which we do not provide services or are less likely to be awarded contracts. Such changes in spending authorizations and budgetary priorities may occur as a result of uncertainty surrounding the federal budget, increasing political pressure and legislation, shifts in spending priorities from defense-related programs as a result of competing demands for federal funds, the number and intensity of military conflicts or other factors. The U.S. Government also conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities, which may shift DoD budgetary priorities, reduce overall U.S. Government spending or delay contract or task order awards for defense-related programs, including programs from which we expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenues. In addition, changes to the DoD acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. A significant decline in overall U.S. Government spending, including in the areas of national security, intelligence and homeland security, a significant shift in its spending priorities, the substantial reduction or elimination of particular defense-related programs or significant delays in contract or task order awards for large programs could adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 12 Table of Contents PART I Because we depend on U.S. Government contracts, a delay in the completion of the U.S. Governments budget process could delay procurement of the products, services and solutions we provide and have an adverse effect on our future revenues. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to an annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation process. In years when the U.S. Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a continuing resolution, which allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of the products, services and solutions that we provide and may result in new initiatives being canceled. We have from time to time experienced a decline in revenues in our fourth quarter as a result of this annual budget cycle, and we could experience similar declines in revenues from future delays in the budget process. In years when the U.S. Government fails to complete its budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution, a federal government shutdown may result. A federal government shutdown could, in turn, result in our incurrence of substantial labor or other costs without reimbursement under customer contracts, or the delay or cancellation of key programs, which could have a negative effect on our cash flows and adversely affect our future results. In addition, when supplemental appropriations are required to operate the U.S. Government or fund specific programs and passage of legislation needed to approve any supplemental appropriation bill is delayed, the overall funding environment for our business could be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with a variety of complex procurement rules and regulations could result in our being liable for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. Government contracts and suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Some significant statutes and regulations that affect us include: the FAR and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts; the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials; the Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; and the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts. The FAR and many of our U.S. Government contracts contain organizational conflict of interest clauses that may limit our ability to compete for or perform certain other contracts or other types of services for particular customers. Organizational conflicts of interest arise when we engage in activities that may make us unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the U.S. Government, impair our objectivity in performing contract work or provide us with an unfair competitive advantage. A conflict of interest issue that precludes our competition for or performance on a significant program or contract could harm our prospects. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 13 Table of Contents PART I The U.S. Government may adopt new contract rules and regulations or revise its procurement practices in a manner adverse to us at any time. Our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies and recovery of costs, among other items. U.S. Government agencies may face restrictions or pressure regarding the type and amount of services that they may obtain from private contractors. Legislation, regulations and initiatives dealing with procurement reform, mitigation of potential conflicts of interest and environmental responsibility or sustainability, as well as any resulting shifts in the buying practices of U.S. Government agencies, such as increased usage of fixed price contracts, multiple award contracts and small business set-aside contracts, could have adverse effects on government contractors, including us. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or renew our existing contracts when those contracts are recompeted. Any new contracting requirements or procurement methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future revenues, profitability and prospects. Our business is subject to reviews, audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. Government, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects. U.S. Government agencies, including the DCAA, DCMA and others, routinely audit and review a contractors performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of the contractors compliance with government standards for its business systems, including; a contractors accounting system, earned value management system, estimating system, materials management and accounting system, property management system and purchasing system. Both contractors and the U.S. Government agencies conducting these audits and reviews have come under increased scrutiny. As a result, the current audits and reviews have become more rigorous and the standards to which we are held are being more strictly interpreted, increasing the likelihood of an audit or review resulting in an adverse outcome. During the course of its current audits, the DCAA is closely examining and questioning several of our long established and disclosed practices that it had previously audited and accepted, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate conclusion that will be reached. A finding of significant control deficiencies in our system audits or other reviews can result in decremented billing rates to our U.S. Government customers until the control deficiencies are corrected and our remediations are accepted by DCMA. Government audits and reviews may conclude that our practices are not consistent with applicable laws and regulations and result in adjustments to contract costs and mandatory customer refunds. Such adjustments can be applied retroactively, which could result in significant customer refunds. Our receipt of adverse audit findings or the failure to obtain an approved determination of our various business systems from the responsible U.S. Government agency could significantly and adversely affect our business, including our ability to bid on new contracts and our competitive position in the bidding process. A determination of non-compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards could also result in the U.S. Government imposing penalties and sanctions against us, including withholding of payments, suspension of payments and increased government scrutiny that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. Government. Leidos, Inc.'s indirect cost audits by the DCAA remain open for fiscal 2012 and subsequent fiscal years. Although we have recorded contract revenues subsequent to and including fiscal 2012 based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments and, if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected. Leidos Innovations Corporation's indirect cost audits by the DCAA remain open for fiscal 2009 and subsequent fiscal years. Based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments and, if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 14 Table of Contents PART I Our business is subject to governmental review and investigation which could adversely affect our financial position, operating results and growth prospects. We are routinely subject to governmental investigations relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect to our role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside the United States. If a review or investigation identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies. We may suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, which would impair our ability to win new contract awards or receive contract renewals. Penalties and sanctions are not uncommon in our industry. If we incur a material penalty or administrative sanction or otherwise suffer harm to our reputation, our revenues, profitability, cash position and future prospects could be adversely affected. More generally, increases in scrutiny and investigations from government organizations, legislative bodies or agencies into business practices and into major programs supported by contractors may lead to increased legal costs and may harm our reputation, revenues, profitability and growth prospects. Misconduct of employees, subcontractors, agents and business partners could cause us to lose existing contracts or customers and adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts and customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation. Misconduct could include fraud or other improper activities such as falsifying time or other records and violations of laws, including the Anti-Kickback Act. Other examples could include the failure to comply with our policies and procedures or with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the use and safeguarding of classified or other protected information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health or safety matters, bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, lobbying or similar activities and any other applicable laws or regulations. Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us, loss of current and future contracts and serious harm to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct, and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could damage our reputation and subject us to fines and penalties, restitution or other damages, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business, reputation and our future results. Due to the competitive process to obtain contracts and the likelihood of bid protests, we may be unable to achieve or sustain revenue growth and profitability. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. The U.S. Government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including IDIQ, GSA Schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. The competitive bidding process involves substantial costs and a number of risks, including significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, or that may be awarded but for which we do not receive meaningful task orders, and to the risk of inaccurately estimating the resources and costs that will be required to fulfill any contract we win. Following contract award, we may encounter significant expense, delay, contract modifications or even contract loss as a result of our competitors protesting the award of contracts to us in competitive bidding. Any resulting loss or delay of start-up and funding of work under protested contract awards may adversely affect our revenues and/or profitability. In addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained post-award efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. As a result, we may not be able to obtain these task orders or recognize revenues under these multi-award contracts. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment would adversely affect our revenues and/or profitability. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 15 Table of Contents PART I The U.S. Government may terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, this may adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years and include one or more base years and one or more option years. These programs are normally funded on an annual basis. Under our contracts, the U.S. Government generally has the right to not exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at its convenience. Any decisions by the U.S. Government to not exercise contract options or to terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our major programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenues, revenue growth and profitability. We have experienced and continue to experience periodic performance issues under certain of our contracts. Some of our contracts involve the development of complex systems and products to achieve challenging customer goals in a competitive procurement environment. As a result, we sometimes experience technological or other performance difficulties, which have in the past and may in the future result in delays, cost overruns and failures in our performance of these contracts. If a government customer terminates a contract for default, we may be exposed to liability, including for excess costs incurred by the customer in procuring undelivered services and products from another source. Depending on the nature and value of the contract, a performance issue or termination for default could cause our actual results to differ from those anticipated and could harm our reputation. We face aggressive competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenues and growth prospects. Our business is highly competitive and we compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and a larger technical staff. We also compete with smaller, more specialized companies that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. Additionally, we compete with the U.S. Governments own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop services and products that address these changing needs and to provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and products. To remain competitive, we must consistently provide superior service, technology and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or technologies or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish teaming or other relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customers needs. Accordingly, we anticipate that larger or new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. A failure to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, would adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy and may disrupt our operations. Our business involves the development of tailored services and solutions for our customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of our employees. Our continued success depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly trained and skilled engineering, technical and professional personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and competitors aggressively recruit key employees. In addition, many U.S. Government programs require contractors to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and personnel with security clearances are in great demand. Particularly in highly specialized areas, it has become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which may affect our growth. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract, effectively train and retain these employees. Any failure to do so could impair our ability to perform our contractual obligations efficiently and timely meet our customers needs and win new business, which could adversely affect our future results. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 16 Table of Contents PART I In addition to attracting and retaining qualified engineering, technical and professional personnel, we believe that our success will also depend on the continued employment of a highly qualified and experienced senior management team and its ability to retain existing business and generate new business. Our senior management team is important to our business because personal reputations and individual business relationships are a critical element of retaining and obtaining customer contracts in our industry, particularly with agencies performing classified operations. An inability to retain appropriately qualified and experienced senior executives could cause us to lose customers or new business opportunities. We may not realize as revenues the full amounts reflected in our backlog, which could adversely affect our expected future revenues and growth prospects. As of December 30, 2016, our total backlog was $17.7 billion , including $6.0 billion in funded backlog. Due to the U.S. Governments ability to not exercise contract options or to terminate, modify or curtail our programs or contracts and the rights of our non-U.S. Government customers to cancel contracts and purchase orders in certain circumstances, we may realize less than expected or may never realize revenues from some of the contracts that are included in our backlog. Our unfunded backlog, in particular, contains managements estimate of amounts expected to be realized on unfunded contract work that may never be realized as revenues. If we fail to realize as revenues amounts included in our backlog, our future revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our earnings and profitability may vary based on the mix of our contracts and may be adversely affected by our failure to accurately estimate and manage costs, time and resources. We generate revenues under various types of contracts, which include cost-reimbursement, FP-IF, T&M, FP-LOE and FFP contracts. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost-reimbursement and T&M contracts are generally less profitable than FFP contracts. Our operating results in any period may also be affected, positively or negatively, by customers' variable purchasing patterns of our more profitable proprietary products. Our profitability is adversely affected when we incur contract costs that we cannot bill to our customers. To varying degrees, each of our contract types involves some risk that we could underestimate the costs and resources necessary to fulfill the contract. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns. Revenues from FFP contracts represented approximately 30% of our total revenues for fiscal 2016. When making proposals on these types of contracts, we rely heavily on our estimates of costs and timing to complete the associated projects, as well as assumptions regarding technical issues. In each case, our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during performance could result, and in some instances has resulted, in reduced profits or in losses. More generally, any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in the performance of our contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, such as performance failures of our subcontractors, natural disasters or other force majeure events, could make our contracts less profitable than expected or unprofitable. We use estimates in recognizing revenues, and if we make changes to estimates used in recognizing revenues, our profitability may be adversely affected. Revenues from our contracts are primarily recognized using the percentage-of-completion method or on the basis of partial performance towards completion. These methodologies require estimates of total costs at completion, fees earned on the contract, or both. This estimation process, particularly due to the technical nature of the services performed and the long-term nature of certain contracts, is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. Changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect our future financial results. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 17 Table of Contents PART I Legal disputes could require us to pay potentially large damage awards and could be costly to defend, which would adversely affect our cash balances and profitability, and could damage our reputation. We are subject to a number of lawsuits and claims described in Legal Proceedings in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as may be updated in our future filings with the SEC, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We are also subject to, and may become a party to, a variety of other litigation or claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation could be costly to defend, and even if we are successful or if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. Litigation and other claims, including those described in Legal Proceedings, are subject to inherent uncertainties and managements view of these matters may change in the future. Our business and operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements, and any violation of these requirements could harm our business. We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign legal requirements on matters as diverse as data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, immigration, taxation, anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation and anti-competition. Compliance with diverse and changing legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. We also conduct business in certain identified growth areas, such as health information technology, energy and environmental services, which are highly regulated and may expose us to increased compliance risk. Violations of one or more of these diverse legal requirements in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines and other damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations or contractual obligations related to regulatory compliance in connection with the performance of customer contracts could also result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to compete for certain work and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 18 Table of Contents PART I Our business and financial results could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats. As a U.S. Government contractor and a provider of information technology services operating in multiple regulated industries and geographies, we handle sensitive information. Therefore, we are continuously exposed to cyber attacks and other security threats, including physical break-ins. Any electronic or physical break-in or other security breach or compromise may jeopardize security of information stored or transmitted through our information technology systems and networks. This could lead to disruptions in mission-critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to protect against, detect and mitigate these threats, we face advanced and persistent attacks on our information systems and attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others, and may be perpetrated by well-funded organized crime or state sponsored efforts. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their occurrence or recurrence. We continue to invest in and improve our threat protection, detection and mitigation policies, procedures and controls. In addition, we work with other companies in the industry and government participants on increased awareness and enhanced protections against cybersecurity threats. However, because of the evolving nature and sophistication of these security threats, which can be difficult to detect, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and controls have or will detect or prevent any of these threats and we cannot predict the full impact of any such past or future incident. We may experience similar security threats to the information technology systems that we develop, install or maintain under customer contracts. Although we work cooperatively with our customers and other business partners to seek to minimize the impact of cyber and other security threats, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities. Any remedial costs or other liabilities related to cyber or other security threats may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these security threats could expose us to claims, contract terminations and damages and could adversely affect our reputation, ability to work on sensitive U.S. Government contracts, business operations and financial results. Internal system or service failures could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services and products to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Any system or service disruptions, including those caused by ongoing projects to improve our information technology systems and the delivery of services, whether through our shared services organization or outsourced services, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business including, among other things, an adverse effect on our ability to bill our customers for work performed on our contracts, collect the amounts that have been billed and produce accurate financial statements in a timely manner. We are also subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks or other events, which could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected. Customer systems failures could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Many of the systems and networks that we develop, install and maintain for our customers involve managing and protecting personal information and information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. While we have programs designed to comply with relevant privacy and security laws and restrictions, if a system or network that we develop, install or maintain were to fail or experience a security breach or service interruption, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats or other events, we may experience loss of revenue, remediation costs or face claims for damages or contract termination. Any such event could cause serious harm to our reputation and prevent us from having access to or being eligible for further work on such systems and networks. Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all of the damages that we may incur and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 19 Table of Contents PART I Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. Failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. We design and develop technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. In addition, our offerings cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability such as problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. We have contracts with the U.S. Government that are classified, which may limit investor insight into portions of our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from programs with the U.S. Government that are subject to security restrictions (classified programs), which preclude the dissemination of information that is classified for national security purposes. We are limited in our ability to provide information about these classified programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors have less insight into our classified programs than our other businesses and therefore less ability to fully evaluate the risks related to our classified business. We have made and continue to make acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. We selectively pursue strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. These transactions require significant investment of time and resources and may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities. Even if successful, these transactions could reduce earnings for a number of reasons, including the amortization of intangible assets, impairment charges, acquired operations that are not yet profitable or the payment of additional consideration under earn-out arrangements if an acquisition performs better than expected. Acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many other risks that could adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial results, including: we may not be able to identify, compete effectively for or complete suitable acquisitions and investments at prices we consider attractive; we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions and investments on our business, and we may not realize anticipated synergies or acquisitions may not result in improved operating performance; we may encounter performance problems with acquired technologies, capabilities and products, particularly with respect to those that are still in development when acquired; we may have trouble retaining key employees and customers of an acquired business or otherwise integrating such businesses, such as incompatible accounting, information management, or other control systems, which could result in unforeseen difficulties; we may assume material liabilities that were not identified as part of our due diligence or for which we are unable to receive a purchase price adjustment or reimbursement through indemnification; we may assume legal or regulatory risks, particularly with respect to smaller businesses that have immature business processes and compliance programs; acquired entities or joint ventures may not operate profitably, which could adversely affect our operating income or operating margins, and we may be unable to recover investments in any such acquisitions; Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 20 Table of Contents PART I acquisitions, investments and joint ventures may require us to spend a significant amount of cash or to issue capital stock, resulting in dilution of ownership; and we may not be able to effectively influence the operations of our joint ventures, or we may be exposed to certain liabilities if our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations. If our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures fail, perform poorly or their value is otherwise impaired for any reason, including contractions in credit markets and global economic conditions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, we periodically divest businesses, including businesses that are no longer a part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business, distract management from other responsibilities and may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification, guarantee or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction, which would adversely affect our financial results. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 68% of our total assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. Intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, are tested for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Intangible assets with finite lives are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of intangible assets may not be recoverable could include a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed. We face continued uncertainty in our business environment due to the substantial fiscal and economic challenges facing the U.S. Government, our primary customer, as well as challenges in the commercial healthcare industry, compounded by lower levels of U.S. Government reimbursements, including reductions in Medicare reimbursements which in turn impact hospital IT spending. Adverse changes in fiscal and economic conditions, such as the manner in which the budget cuts are implemented, including sequestration, and issues related to the nations debt ceiling, could adversely impact our future revenues and profitability. These circumstances could result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangibles. Also, adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and our stock price could result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangibles. Any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would have a negative impact on our profitability and financial results. We depend on our teaming arrangements and relationships with other contractors and subcontractors. If we are not able to maintain these relationships, or if these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or the customer, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We rely on our teaming relationships with other prime contractors and subcontractors in order to submit bids for large procurements or other opportunities where we believe the combination of services and products provided by us and the other companies will help us to win and perform the contract. Our future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their contract relationships with us, or if the U.S. Government terminates or reduces these other contractors programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Companies that do not have access to U.S. Government contracts may perform services as our subcontractor and that exposure could enhance such companies prospect of securing a future position as a prime U.S. Government contractor which could increase competition for future contracts and impair our ability to perform on contracts. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 21 Table of Contents PART I We may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of a subcontractors personnel or the subcontractors failure to comply with applicable law. Uncertain economic conditions heighten the risk of financial stress of our subcontractors, which could adversely impact their ability to meet their contractual requirements to us. If any of our subcontractors fail to timely meet their contractual obligations or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor may be jeopardized. Significant losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in our termination for default. A termination for default could eliminate a revenue source, expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders, especially if the customer is an agency of the U.S. Government. We provide professional engineering and other services, including engineering-procurement-construction, design build, project delivery and commissioning, in connection with complex projects that involve significant risks and may require long-term capital. In connection with certain projects, we may commit to a specific completion date or performance standards, which may expose us to significant additional costs and reputational damage if we miss the completion date or fail to achieve the performance standards, including agreed upon financial damages. Project performance can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including delays from governmental inaction, public opposition, inability to obtain financing, weather, unavailability or increased price of materials, changes in project scope, accidents, environmental hazards, labor disruptions and other factors. If we assume risks related to these events, such risks may not be insurable or may only be insurable on unacceptable terms. If these events occur, the total project costs could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate overall profitability and have an adverse effect on our financial position and cash flows. We sold our biomass-powered generating facility in Plainfield, Connecticut with consideration consisting of a secured promissory note. A default on the note by the buyer could result in a write-off of a portion or entire value of the note and may adversely affect our profitability. On July 24, 2015, we completed the sale of our Plainfield Renewable Energy biomass-powered generating facility, with consideration received at closing that included a secured promissory note for $73 million , net of discount (the "Note"). Even though we have no reason to believe a credit risk currently exists, there is a possibility that the buyer could default. In the event of a default, we may need to write off up to the full value of the Note, which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our services and operations sometimes involve using, handling or disposing of hazardous substances, which could expose us to potentially significant liabilities. Some of our services and operations involve the assessment or remediation of environmental hazards, as well as the use, handling or disposal of hazardous substances. These activities and our operations generally subject us to extensive foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, which, among other things, require us to incur costs to comply with these regulations and could impose liability on us for handling or disposing of hazardous substances. Furthermore, failure to comply with these environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations could result in civil, criminal, regulatory, administrative or contractual sanctions, including fines, penalties or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. Our current and previous ownership and operation of real property also subjects us to environmental protection laws, some of which hold current or previous owners or operators of businesses and real property liable for hazardous substance releases, even if they did not know of and were not responsible for the releases. If we have any violations of, or incur liabilities pursuant to these laws or regulations, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 22 Table of Contents PART I We could incur significant liabilities and suffer negative publicity if our inspection or detection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. We design, develop, manufacture, sell, service and maintain various inspection systems that are designed to assist in the detection of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. In some instances, we also train operators of such systems. Many of these systems utilize software algorithms that are probabilistic in nature and subject to significant technical limitations. Many of these systems are also dependent on the performance of their operators. There are many factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could result in the failure of our products to help detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. Some of these factors could include operator error, inherent limitations in our systems, and misuse or malfunction of our systems. The failure of our systems to help detect the presence of any of these dangerous materials could lead to injury, death and extensive property damage and may lead to product liability, professional liability, or other claims against us. Further, if our systems fail to, or are perceived to have failed to help detect a threat, the negative publicity from such incident could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims or losses. We maintain insurance coverage with third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. However, not every risk or liability is or can be protected by insurance, and, for those risks we insure, the limits of coverage we purchase or that are reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. If any of our third-party insurers fail, cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from significant product and other liability claims or losses. Moreover, there is a risk that commercially available liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims or losses exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business, financial position, operating results and prospects may be harmed. Regardless of the adequacy of our liability insurance coverages, any significant claim may have an adverse effect on our industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for our products and services and reduced revenues. We face risks associated with our international business. Our international business operations may be subject to additional and different risks than our U.S. business. Failure to comply with U.S. Government laws and regulations applicable to international business, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations, could have an adverse impact on our business with the U.S. Government and could expose us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Additionally, these risks relating to international operations may expose us to potentially significant contract losses. In some countries, there is an increased chance for economic, legal or political changes that may adversely affect the performance of our services, sale of our products or repatriation of our profits. International transactions can also involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange rate variability, imposition of tariffs or additional taxes, restrictive trade policies, any delay or failure to collect amounts due to us and differing legal systems. We provide services and products in support of U.S. Government customers in countries with governments that may be or may become unstable, which increases the risk of an incident resulting in injury or loss of life, or damage or destruction of property or inability to meet our contractual obligations. Although our international operations have historically generated a small proportion of our revenues, we are seeking to grow our international business, in which case these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have a greater impact on our business in the future and could adversely affect our business. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 23 Table of Contents PART I We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary information and intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property in cases where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. We may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. In addition, in connection with the performance of services, the U.S. Government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under government-funded contracts and subcontracts, which means that U.S. Government may disclose or license our information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors. In the course of conducting our business, we may inadvertently infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in claims against us or our customers. Our contracts generally indemnify our customers for third-party claims for intellectual property infringement by the services and products we provide. The expense of defending these claims may adversely affect our financial results. Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this Risk Factors section and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. Accounting for many of our programs requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with estimating directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials, consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented, consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating revenue and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating revenue and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes involved in accounting for construction and production type contracts, materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. The integration of Leidos and Splitco may not be successful or the anticipated benefits from the Transactions may not be realized. As a result of the Transactions, we have significantly more sales, assets and employees than we did prior to the consummation of the Transactions. During the period in which transition services are provided to us by Lockheed Martin, Splitco has a continued dependence on the provision of services from Lockheed Martin, including with respect to information technology infrastructure. The integration process requires us to expend capital and significantly expand the scope of our operations. Our management is required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of our business and the Splitco Business. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include, but are not limited to: Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 24 Table of Contents PART I integrating the Splitco Business while carrying on the ongoing operations of our business; managing a significantly larger company than before the consummation of the Transactions; the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations regarding the integration process; coordinating a greater number of diverse businesses located in a greater number of geographic locations; operating in geographic markets or industry sectors in which we may have little or no experience; complying with laws of new jurisdictions in which we have not previously operated; integrating business systems and models; attracting and retaining the necessary personnel associated with the Splitco Business following the consummation of the Transactions; creating and implementing uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and controlling the costs associated with such matters; and integrating information technology, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems, and meeting external reporting requirements following the consummation of the Transactions. All of the risks associated with the integration process could be exacerbated by the fact that we may not have a sufficient number of employees with the requisite expertise to integrate the businesses or to operate our business. Failure to hire or retain employees with the requisite skills and knowledge to run Leidos may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to combine the two business operations successfully, it may not be possible to realize the benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits, including the expected synergies that are expected to result from the Transactions, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Transactions may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. In addition, the quantification of synergies expected to result from the Transactions is based on significant estimates and assumptions that are subjective in nature and inherently uncertain. The amount of synergies actually realized in the Transactions, if any, and the time periods in which any such synergies are realized, could differ materially from the expected synergies discussed in this document, regardless of whether we are able to combine the two business operations successfully. If we are unable to successfully integrate the Splitco Business or if we are unable to realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Transactions, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to abide by potentially significant restrictions which could limit our ability to undertake certain corporate actions (such as the issuance of Leidos common stock or the undertaking of a merger or consolidation) that otherwise could be advantageous. The merger agreement and the tax matters agreement impose certain ongoing restrictions on us to ensure that applicable statutory requirements under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable Treasury regulations are met so that the Transactions qualify as tax-free to Lockheed Martin and its shareholders. As a result of these restrictions, our ability to engage in certain transactions may be limited. If we take any actions that would cause the Transactions to become taxable, we generally will be required to bear the cost of any resulting tax liability. If the Transactions became taxable, Lockheed Martin would be expected to recognize a substantial amount of income, which would result in a material amount of taxes. Any such taxes allocated to us would be expected to be material to us, and could cause our business, financial condition and operating results to suffer. These restrictions may reduce our ability to engage in certain business transactions that otherwise might be advantageous to us. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 25 Table of Contents PART I We incurred new indebtedness in connection with the Transactions, and the degree to which Leidos is leveraged may have a material adverse effect on Leidos' business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. Certain financial institutions provided financing to Splitco to finance the amount of the Splitco debt and to Leidos to fund the special dividend, for which the Company paid $993 million to its stockholders and accrued $29 million of dividend equivalents with respect to outstanding equity awards. Leidos' ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness, including the debt incurred pursuant to the Transactions, as well as any future debt that Leidos may incur, will depend on, among other things, Leidos' ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Leidos' ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond Leidos' control. If Leidos is not able to repay or refinance its debt as it becomes due, Leidos may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of Leidos' cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on Leidos' indebtedness. In addition, Leidos' ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in Leidos' industry could be impaired. The lenders who hold such debt could also potentially accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of Leidos' other debt. In addition, Leidos may increase its debt or raise additional capital subject to restrictions in Leidos' debt agreements and agreements entered into in connection with the Transactions. If Leidos' cash flow from operations is less than it anticipates, or if Leidos' cash requirements are more than it expects, Leidos may require more financing. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to Leidos on terms acceptable to Leidos, if at all. If Leidos incurs additional debt or raises equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of Leidos' common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on Leidos' operations than it currently has. If Leidos raises funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in Leidos would be diluted. If Leidos is unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect Leidos' financial condition, which could negatively affect your investment in Leidos. Also, regardless of the terms of Leidos' debt or equity financing, the amount of Leidos' stock that it can issue may be limited because the issuance of Leidos' stock may cause the Distribution (as defined below in Item 7) to be a taxable event for Lockheed Martin, and under the tax matters agreement, Leidos could be required to indemnify Lockheed Martin for the resulting tax. We will incur significant costs related to the Transactions that could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and operating results. We expect to incur approximately $235 million of one-time transition and integration-related costs, a portion of which will be incremental capital spending, which management believes are necessary to realize the anticipated synergies from the Transactions. The incurrence of these costs may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and operating results in the periods in which they are incurred. We may be able to recover approximately $90 million of the transition and integration-related expenses as allocable costs through its cost-type contracts over a five year period, but there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so. The identification and implementation of additional anticipated synergies, particularly in reduced real estate footprint and systems consolidation opportunities, may result in additional one-time integration costs. We may be unable to provide the same types and level of benefits, services and resources to Splitco that historically have been provided by Lockheed Martin, or may be unable to provide them at the same cost. As part of Lockheed Martin, Splitco received benefits and services from Lockheed Martin and benefited from Lockheed Martins financial strength and extensive business relationships. As a result of the Transactions, Splitco is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Leidos and no longer will benefit from Lockheed Martins resources. While we have entered into agreements under which Lockheed Martin has agreed to provide certain transition services and site-related services for a period of time following the consummation of the Transactions, it cannot be assured that we will be able to adequately replace those resources or replace them at the same cost. If we are not able to replace the resources provided by Lockheed Martin or are unable to replace them at the same cost or are delayed in replacing the resources provided by Lockheed Martin, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 26 Table of Contents PART I Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected as we replace certain of Splitcos contracts if we cannot negotiate contract terms that are as favorable as those Lockheed Martin received. Prior to the consummation of the Transactions, certain functions (such as purchasing, accounts payable processing, accounts receivable management, information systems, logistics and distribution) associated with the Splitco Business were performed under Lockheed Martins centralized systems and, in some cases, under contracts that also are used for Lockheed Martins other businesses and which were not assigned in whole or in part to Splitco. In addition, some other contracts to which Lockheed Martin was a party on behalf of Splitco will require consents of third parties to assign them to Splitco. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate contract terms that are as favorable as those Lockheed Martin received when and if we replace these contracts with our own agreements for similar services, including any contracts that may need to be replaced as a result of a failure to obtain required third-party consents. Although we believe that we will be able to enter into new agreements for similar services and that Lockheed Martin and Leidos will be able to obtain all material third-party consents required to assign contracts to Splitco, it is possible that the failure to enter into new agreements for similar services or to obtain required consents to assign contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets. The Transactions added $5.1 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets to our consolidated balance sheets as of August 16, 2016. In accordance with GAAP, our management periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair goodwill and other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Risks Relating to Our Stock We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock. In March 2012, our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly dividend program. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our available cash, estimated cash needs, earnings, financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, as well as limitations in our contractual agreements, applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant. A change in our dividend program could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. These restrictions, which may also make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors not endorsed by our current directors and management, include the following: Our certificate of incorporation provides that our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may be amended by only two-thirds or more voting power of all of the outstanding shares entitled to vote. These supermajority voting requirements could impede our stockholders ability to make changes to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Our certificate of incorporation contains certain supermajority voting provisions, which generally provide that mergers and certain other business combinations between us and a related person be approved by the holders of securities having at least 80% of our outstanding voting power, as well as by the holders of a majority of the voting power of such securities that are not owned by the related person. Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are limited in their ability to take certain actions other than in connection with its annual stockholders meeting or a special meeting called at the request of qualified stockholders as provided in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 27 Table of Contents PART I Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain restrictions on business combinations. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years, or among other things, our Board of Directors has approved the business combination or the transaction pursuant to which such person became a 15% holder prior to the time the person became a 15% holder. Forward-Looking Statement Risks You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements belief and assumptions about the future in light of information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, should, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continue, and similar words or phrases or the negative of these words or phrases. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements may include statements regarding the benefits and synergies of the Transactions and future opportunities for the combined company following the transaction. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable when made, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results anticipated by our forward-looking statements, which include, but are not limited to: developments in the U.S. Government defense budget, including budget reductions, sequestration, implementation of spending limits or changes in budgetary priorities, or delays in the U.S. Government budget process or approval of raising the debt ceiling; delays in the U.S. Government contract procurement process or the award of contracts and delays or loss of contracts as a result of competitor protests; changes in U.S. Government procurement rules, regulations, and practices; our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; governmental reviews, audits and investigations of our company; our ability to effectively compete and win contracts with the U.S. Government and other customers; our reliance on information technology spending by hospitals/health care organizations; our reliance on infrastructure investments by industrial and natural resources organizations; energy efficiency and alternative energy sourcing investments; investments by U.S. Government and commercial organizations in environment impact and remediation projects; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, and to obtain security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts; resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others or legal or regulatory compliance issues; cybersecurity, data security or other security threats, system failures or other disruptions of our business; our ability to effectively acquire businesses and make investments; Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 28 Table of Contents PART I our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to manage performance and other risks related to customer contracts, including complex engineering or design build projects; the failure of our inspection or detection systems to detect threats; the adequacy of our insurance programs designed to protect us from significant product or other liability claims; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; the possibility that we may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with the transaction with Lockheed Martin within the expected time-frames or at all; the integration of the Information Systems & Global Solutions business acquired from Lockheed Martin being more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; the effect of any changes resulting from the Transactions in customer, supplier and other business relationships; exposure to lawsuits and contingencies associated with Lockheed Martins Information Systems & Global Solutions business; our ability to declare future dividends based on our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors, including compliance with applicable law and our agreements; our ability to grow our commercial health and infrastructure businesses, which could be negatively affected by budgetary constraints faced by hospitals and by developers of energy and infrastructure projects; and our ability to execute our business plan and long-term management initiatives effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements or to conform these statements to actual results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties As of December 30, 2016, we conducted our operations in approximately 341 offices located in 39 states, the District of Columbia and various foreign countries. We occupy approximately 7.6 million square feet of floor space. Of this amount, we own approximately 1.2 million square feet, and the remaining balance is leased. Our major locations are in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area, where we occupy a combination of leased and owned floor space of approximately 2.6 million square feet. We also have employees working at customer sites throughout the United States and in other countries. As of December 30, 2016, we owned the following properties: Location Number of buildings Square footage Acreage Gaithersburg, Maryland 1 542,000 44.8 San Diego, California 2 262,000 13.5 Columbia, Maryland 1 95,000 7.3 Colorado Springs, Colorado 1 86,000 14.2 Orlando, Florida 1 85,000 8.5 Oak Ridge, Tennessee 1 83,000 8.4 Reston, Virginia 1 62,000 2.6 As of December 30, 2016, we owned one property on 5 acres of vacant land in Virginia Beach, Virginia. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 29 Table of Contents PART I The nature of our business is such that there is no practicable way to relate occupied space to our reportable segments. See "Note 17Leases" of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding commitments under leases. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in "Note 20Legal Proceedings" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the matters disclosed in "Note 20Legal Proceedings," we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is set forth in "Note 21 Other Commitments and ContingenciesGovernment Investigations and Reviews of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 30 Table of Contents PART I Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of the names and ages (as of February 24, 2017) of our executive officers, indicating all positions and offices held by each such person and each such persons business experience during at least the past five years. All such persons have been elected to serve until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. Name of officer Age Position(s) with the company and prior business experience Roger A. Krone 60 Mr. Krone has served as Chief Executive Officer since July 2014. Mr. Krone is also Chairman of the Board. He brings more than 36 years of operational, strategic, and financial execution experience for some of the nations most prominent names in aerospace. Mr. Krone has held senior program management and finance positions at The Boeing Company, McDonnell Douglas Corp., and General Dynamics. Mr. Krone is currently a member of the Georgia Tech Foundation Board of Trustees and a member of the board of WETA Public Television and Radio in Washington, D.C. He is a long-time supporter of the Urban League, and currently serves on the board of the Greater Washington chapter. He is also a member of the Executive Council of the Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) and a member of the AOPA Foundation's Board of Visitors. James C. Reagan 58 Mr. Reagan has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since July 2015. Prior to joining Leidos, from 2012 to 2015, Mr. Reagan was with Vencore, Inc. (formerly The SI Organization, Inc.), a provider of information solutions, and engineering and analysis services to the U.S. Intelligence Community, Department of Defense, and federal and civilian agencies, where he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From 2011 to 2012, Mr. Reagan was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of PAE, Inc., a provider of mission support services to the U.S. Government. Mr. Reagan is a Certified Public Accountant. John J. Fratamico, Jr. 59 Mr. Fratamico served as President, National Security Solutions - Surveillance and Reconnaissance Group. As of November 2016 he has served as President, Technology Group and Chief Technology Officer. Before joining Leidos, Mr. Fratamico served as Chief Scientist at McDonnell Douglas Technologies Incorporated. Mary S. Craft 58 Ms. Craft served as President, National Security Solutions - Global Services Group. As of August 2016 she has served as Chief Administrative Officer. Before joining Leidos, Ms. Craft held positions with QinetiQ North America, General Dynamics and Raytheon. Jonathan W. Scholl 55 Mr. Scholl served as President, Health and Infrastructure group. As of August 2016, he has served as President, Health Group. Prior to joining Leidos, Mr. Scholl served for five years as the Chief Strategy Officer for Texas Health Resources, one of the largest nonprofit health care delivery systems in the country. Prior to that, he spent 15 years with The Boston Consulting group and served as Head of their North American Healthcare Provider Practice and leader of their Lean Six Sigma initiative for hospitals. He also served as vice president for applications development for the TenFold HealthCare Group in Dallas. Mr. Scholl served five years in the U.S. Navy as a nuclear submarine officer and nuclear power plant instructor. Vincent A. Maffeo 66 Mr. Maffeo has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel since June 2010. Prior to joining Leidos, from 1977 to 2009, Mr. Maffeo was with ITT Corporation, a high-technology engineering and manufacturing company, where he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel from 1995 until 2009. He held various other increasingly responsible legal positions at ITT Corporation in the telecommunications, defense and automotive businesses, and at the European Headquarters of ITT Europe, before becoming General Counsel. Gerald A. Fasano 51 Mr. Fasano has served as Chief of Business Development & Strategy since August 2016 when he joined Leidos. Prior to joining Leidos, Mr. Fasano served Lockheed Martin Corporation over 30 years in several capacities, most recently as a Vice President and General Manager of their former Information Systems & Global Solutions business. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 31 Table of Contents PART I Name of officer Age Position(s) with the company and prior business experience Ann Addison 55 Ms. Addison has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since August 2016 when she joined Leidos. Prior to joining Leidos, Ms. Addison served Lockheed Martin Corporation in several capacities, most recently as the Vice President of Human Resources for their former Information Systems & Global Solutions business. Earlier in her career she held positions with Global eXchange Services and General Electric. Timothy J. Reardon 52 Mr. Reardon has served as President, Defense & Intelligence Group since January 2017 and before that, as President, Intelligence & Homeland Security Group. Prior to joining Leidos in August 2016, Mr. Reardon served as a Vice President and General Manager of Lockheed Martin Corporation's former Information Systems & Global Solutions business. Prior to joining Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mr. Reardon served as an officer with the Central Intelligence Agency for 10 years. Angela L. Heise 42 Ms. Heise has served as President, Civil Group since August 2016 when she joined Leidos. Prior to joining Leidos, Ms. Heise served as Vice President of Enterprise Information Technology for Lockheed Martin Corporation. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 32 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Leidos common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the ticker symbol LDOS. The range of high and low sales prices at closing of Leidos' common stock on the NYSE for fiscal 2016 and the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, are presented below. Historical Stock Prices 12 Months Ended December 30, 2016 Fiscal Quarter High Low 1st quarter (January 2, 2016 to April 1, 2016) $ 56.19 $ 40.79 2nd quarter (April 2, 2016 to July 1, 2016) $ 52.32 $ 45.71 3rd quarter (July 2, 2016 to September 30, 2016) $ 52.33 $ 38.50 4th quarter (October 1, 2016 to December 30, 2016) $ 52.38 $ 41.18 11 Months Ended January 1, 2016 Fiscal Quarter High Low 1st quarter (January 31, 2015 to April 3, 2015) (1) $ 46.76 $ 41.30 2nd quarter (April 4, 2015 to July 3, 2015) $ 43.20 $ 39.63 3rd quarter (July 4, 2015 to October 2, 2015) $ 45.03 $ 38.05 4th quarter (October 3, 2015 to January 1, 2016) $ 59.05 $ 43.42 (1) The first quarter of the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, included only two months as a result of the change in our fiscal year end. Holders of Common Stock As of February 14, 2017, there were approximately 23,552 holders of record of Leidos common stock. The number of stockholders of record of Leidos common stock is not representative of the number of beneficial owners due to the fact that many shares are held by depositories, brokers or nominees. Dividend Policy During fiscal 2016 and the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, Leidos declared and paid quarterly dividends totaling $1.28 per share of Leidos common stock. Leidos currently intends to continue paying dividends on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future dividends will be determined by Leidos Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including available cash, estimated cash needs, earnings, financial condition, operating results, and capital requirements, as well as limitations in our contractual agreements, applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that the Board of Directors considers relevant. Our ability to declare and pay future dividends on Leidos stock may be restricted by the provisions of Delaware law and covenants in our then-existing indebtedness arrangements. In connection with the Transactions, Leidos' Board of Directors declared a special dividend of $13.64 per share of Leidos common stock. Consequently, on August 22, 2016, Leidos paid out $993 million to stockholders of record as of August 15, 2016, and accrued $29 million as dividend equivalents with respect to outstanding unvested equity awards. Stock Performance Graph In fiscal 2016, we chose to use the Standard & Poors IT Services Industry index to replace the Standard & Poors North American Technology Services index. The Standard & Poors North American Technology Services index was discontinued in March 2016. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 33 Table of Contents PART II The following graph compares the total cumulative five-year return on Leidos common stock through December 30, 2016 to three indices: (i) the Standard & Poors MidCap 400 index, (ii) the Standard & Poors North American Technology Services index and (iii) the Standard & Poors IT Services Industry index. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 on December 31, 2011, and that dividends, if any, have been reinvested. On September 27, 2013, we completed the spin-off of New SAIC. Our stockholders received one share of New SAIC common stock for every seven shares of our common stock held on the record date (September 19, 2013). The effect of the spin-off is reflected in the cumulative total return as a reinvested dividend. The comparisons in the graph are required by the SEC, based upon historical data and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of Leidos common stock . Purchases of Equity Securities In December 2013, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program ("2013 Stock Repurchase Program") under which we may repurchase up to 20 million shares of Leidos common stock. This share repurchase authorization replaced the March 2012 share repurchase authorization of 10 million shares. Stock repurchases may be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions with third parties including through accelerated share repurchase agreements. Whether repurchases are made and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased depends on a variety of factors including price, corporate capital requirements, other market conditions and regulatory requirements. The repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. Pursuant to the tax matters agreement entered into in connection with the Transactions, we are generally restricted from repurchasing our stock for a two-year period following the closing date of the Transactions, unless an exception applies. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 34 Table of Contents PART II The following table presents repurchases of Leidos common stock during the quarter ended December 30, 2016: Period (a) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased (1) (b) Average Price Paid per Share (or Unit) (c) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Repurchase Plans or Programs (2) (d) Maximum Number of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) October 1, 2016 - October 31, 2016 706 $ 43.04 5,718,172 November 1, 2016 - November 30, 2016 28,645 42.27 5,718,172 December 1, 2016 - December 30, 2016 2,621 51.26 5,718,172 Total 31,972 $ 43.03 (1) The total number of shares purchased includes: (i) shares surrendered to satisfy statutory tax withholdings obligations related to vesting of restricted stock units; and (ii) shares purchased upon surrender by stockholders of previously owned shares in payment of the exercise price of non-qualified stock options and/or to satisfy statutory tax withholdings obligations. (2) Number of shares outstanding that can yet be repurchased out of the maximum 20 million shares authorized by our Board of Directors, under the 2013 Stock Repurchase Program announced in December 2013. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The selected financial data for the five-year period set forth below is derived from our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and for the fiscal years 2015 through 2013. This information should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II and our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 35 Table of Contents PART II 12 Months Ended (1) 11 Months Ended (1) 12 Months Ended (1) December 30, 2016 (2) January 1, 2016 (3) January 30, 2015 (4) January31, 2014 (5) January 31, 2013 (in millions, except for per share amounts) Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) Data: Revenues $ 7,043 $ 4,712 $ 5,063 $ 5,755 $ 6,449 Operating income (loss) 417 320 (214 ) 163 421 Income (loss) from continuing operations 246 243 (330 ) 84 323 (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (1 ) 7 80 202 Net income (loss) 246 242 (323 ) 164 525 Less: net income attributable to non-controlling interest, net of taxes 2 Net income (loss) attributable to Leidos Holdings, Inc. $ 244 $ 242 $ (323 ) $ 164 $ 525 Earnings (loss) per share: Basic: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Leidos common stockholders $ 2.39 $ 3.33 $ (4.46 ) $ 0.98 $ 3.81 (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (0.01 ) 0.10 0.96 2.38 Net income (loss) attributable to Leidos common stockholders $ 2.39 $ 3.32 $ (4.36 ) $ 1.94 $ 6.19 Diluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Leidos common stockholders $ 2.35 $ 3.28 $ (4.46 ) $ 0.98 $ 3.81 (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (0.01 ) 0.10 0.96 2.38 Net income (loss) attributable to Leidos common stockholders $ 2.35 $ 3.27 $ (4.36 ) $ 1.94 $ 6.19 Cash dividend per common share $ 14.92 $ 1.28 $ 1.28 $ 5.60 $ 1.92 December 30, 2016 January 1, 2016 January 30, 2015 January 31, 2014 January 31, 2013 (in millions) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 9,132 $ 3,370 $ 3,281 $ 4,162 $ 5,875 Notes payable and long-term debt, including current portion $ 3,287 $ 1,081 $ 1,158 $ 1,323 $ 1,284 Other long-term liabilities (6) $ 204 $ 149 $ 147 $ 161 $ 138 (1) References to financial data are to the Company's continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. During the year ended January 31, 2014, the Company completed the spin-off of New SAIC. The operating results of New SAIC are included in discontinued operations. (2) Fiscal 2016 includes the results of the IS&GS Business acquired on August 16, 2016. Additionally, the results include acquisition and integration costs of $90 million and restructuring expenses of $14 million . For further information, see "Note 2Acquisitions" and Note 4Restructuring Expenses" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 36 Table of Contents PART II (3) Reflects the 11-month period of January 31, 2015, through January 1, 2016, as a result of the change in our fiscal year end. For further information see, "Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting PoliciesReporting Periods" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, results include a gain on a real estate sale of $82 million , tangible asset impairment charges of $ 29 million , intangible asset impairment charges of $ 4 million and bad debt expense of $8 million . For further information, see "Note 17"LeasesSale and Leaseback Agreement," "Note 2Acquisitions," "Note 6Intangible Assets" and "Note 7Receivables" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (4) Fiscal 2015 results include goodwill impairment charges of $486 million , intangible asset impairment charges of $41 million and a tangible asset impairment charge of $40 million . For further information see, "Note 5Goodwill," "Note 6Intangible Assets" and "Note 2Acquisitions" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (5) Fiscal 2014 results include intangible asset impairment charges of $51 million , bad debt expense of $44 million , and separation transaction and restructuring expenses of $65 million . For further information see, "Note 6Intangible Assets," "Note 7Receivables" and "Note 4Restructuring Expenses" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (6) For fiscal 2016, the Company has separately disclosed "Deferred tax liabilities," which was previously aggregated within "Other long-term liabilities" within the consolidated balance sheets. Deferred tax liabilities for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 were $540 million , $34 million , $21 million , $66 million and $32 million , respectively. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of Leidos Holdings, Inc.'s ("Leidos") financial condition, results of operations and