Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are presented for our continuing operations. We use the terms Company, we, us and our to refer to SAIC, Science Applications and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, references to fiscal years are to fiscal years ended January 31 (for fiscal 2013 and earlier periods) or fiscal years ending the Friday closest to January 31 (for fiscal 2014 and later periods). For example, we refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2014 as fiscal 2014. Effective in fiscal 2014, we changed our fiscal year to a 52/53 week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to January 31, with fiscal quarters typically consisting of 13 weeks. Overview We are a provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions in the areas of defense, health, energy, infrastructure, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and cybersecurity to agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and other U.S. Government civil agencies, state and local government agencies, foreign governments and customers in select commercial markets. Our business is focused on using deep domain knowledge to solve problems of vital importance to the nation and the world in the areas of national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure and health. We are focusing our investments in our strategic growth areas including: intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; cybersecurity; logistics, readiness and sustainment; energy and environment; and health information technology. Our significant long-term management initiatives include: achieving internal, or non-acquisition related, annual revenue growth through internal collaboration and better leveraging of key differentiators across our company and the deployment of resources and investments into higher growth markets; improving our operating income margin through strong contract execution and growth in higher-margin business areas and continued improvement in our information technology (IT) systems infrastructure and related business processes for greater effectiveness and efficiency across all business functions; disciplined deployment of our cash resources and use of our capital structure to enhance growth and stockholder value through internal growth initiatives, strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends and other uses as conditions warrant; and investing in our people, including enhanced training and career development programs, with a focus on retention and recruiting. Key financial events, including progress against managements initiatives, during the three months ended May 3, 2013 include: Revenues for the three months ended May 3, 2013 decreased 2% over the corresponding period in the prior year, reflecting an internal revenue contraction (as defined in Non-GAAP Financial Measures) of 4%. Internal revenue 25 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION contraction for the three months ended May 3, 2013, would have been 7% without the positive impact of $83 million in revenues for the two additional productive days as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. The internal revenue contraction was primarily due to the ramp down of certain contracts in the National Security Solutions and the Technical Services and Information Technology segments and the tightening of the U.S. Government budget, partially offset by revenue growth in the Health and Engineering segment primarily resulting from the fiscal 2013 acquisition of maxIT Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (maxIT). Operating income decreased $66 million to $142 million (5.2% as a percentage of revenues) for the three months ended May 3, 2013 from $208 million for the corresponding period in the prior year. The decrease in operating income for the three months ended May 3, 2013, is primarily due to the expenses associated with the planned separation transaction discussed below of $33 million. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the three months ended May 3, 2013 decreased $0.12 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year primarily due to a decrease in net income and an increase in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding of 6 million, or 2%. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $173 million during the three months ended May 3, 2013, primarily due to cash used in operations of $111 million and dividend payments of $41 million. Net bookings (as defined in Key Financial MetricsBookings and Backlog) were approximately $1.3 billion for the three months ended May 3, 2013. Total backlog was $16.5 billion at May 3, 2013 as compared to $17.9 billion at January 31, 2013. Planned Separation Transaction In August 2012, we announced that our board of directors authorized management to pursue a plan to separate into two independent, publicly traded companies: (i) a company focused on technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services, which will operate under the Science Applications International Corporation name (New SAIC); and (ii) a company focused on delivering science and technology solutions primarily in the areas of national security, engineering and health, which will be named Leidos Holdings, Inc. The proposed separation is intended to take the form of a tax-free spin-off of New SAIC. New SAIC had revenues of $4.8 billion for fiscal 2013. In connection with the proposed separation transaction and in order to align our cost structure for greater competitiveness, we expect to take actions to reduce our real estate footprint by vacating facilities that are not necessary for our future requirements. We expect these actions will result in an aggregate of approximately $70 million in lease termination and facility consolidation costs over fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015, which is expected to generate annualized cost savings of approximately $70 million. During the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we incurred approximately $14 million of these lease termination and facility consolidation costs. We also expect to incur separation transaction expenses, in addition to the lease termination and facility consolidation costs identified above, of approximately $50 million over fiscal 2014. During the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we incurred approximately $19 million of these separation transaction expenses, which included approximately $5 million of incremental severance costs related to organizational streamlining. The separation transaction is expected to occur in the latter half of calendar year 2013, subject to final approval of the board of directors and certain other customary conditions including implementation of intercompany agreements, filing of required documents with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and receipt of an opinion from tax counsel and a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as to the tax-free nature of the transaction. The separation transaction does not require a vote of the stockholders of SAIC. Although we expect that the separation of our businesses will be consummated, there can be no assurance that a separation will ultimately occur. Upon completion of the separation transaction, the operating results of the separated business will be included in discontinued operations. See Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013, which includes certain risk factors relating to the proposed separation transaction. Business Environment and Trends In fiscal 2013, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. Revenues under contracts with the DoD, including subcontracts under which the DoD is the ultimate purchaser, represented approximately 70% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013. Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. Government spending, especially national security, including defense, homeland security, and intelligence spending, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. Government. As an example, we expect to see a reduction in revenue of approximately $250 million from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2014 on our contract to provide logistics services for tactical mine resistant ambush protected vehicles largely as a result of the drawdown of forces in the Middle East. 26 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION While we believe that national security spending will continue to be a priority, U.S. Government budget deficits and the national debt has created increasing pressure to examine and reduce spending across all federal agencies. Baseline spending for the DoD for the next 10 years has been reduced and there may be further reductions. The Budget Control Act of 2011 increased the U.S. Governments debt ceiling and enacted 10-year discretionary spending caps expected to generate over $1 trillion in savings for the U.S. Government. According to the Office of Management and Budget, these savings include $487 billion in DoD baseline spending reductions over the next 10 years. In addition, the Budget Control Act of 2011 provides for additional automatic spending cuts (referred to as sequestration) totaling $1.2 trillion over nine years, which are being implemented in the current U.S. Government fiscal year ending September 30, 2013 (GFY13). Although the Office of Management and Budget provided guidance to agencies on implementing sequestration cuts, there remains significant uncertainty about how exactly sequestration cuts will be implemented during the remainder of GFY13 and the impact it will have on contractors supporting the U.S. Government. The implementation of sequestration spending cuts and associated government guidance and planning activities has impacted existing contracts and caused delays in other government contracting actions. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of budget cuts and sequestration on our business, and while the ultimate effect on our business is uncertain, the amount and nature of these federal budget spending reductions could adversely impact our operations, future revenues and growth prospects in those markets. The U.S. Government has funding measures in place through September 30, 2013. These funding measures include individual spending bills for certain government agencies, including DoD and DHS, and implement $85 billion of sequestration cuts for GFY13. Agencies and departments not covered by these individual spending bills will continue to operate under a continuing resolution with standard restrictions, including no new program starts and no program increases beyond current service levels, which could adversely impact our future revenues and growth prospects. Trends in the U.S. Government contracting process, including a shift towards multiple-awards contracts (in which certain contractors are preapproved using indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) and U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) contract vehicles) and awarding contracts on a low price, technically acceptable basis, have increased competition for U.S. Government contracts and increased pricing pressure. For example, during fiscal 2013, we were not awarded the successor contract to the DISN Global Solutions (DGS) program with the Defense Information Systems Agency. In fiscal 2013, we recognized approximately $425 million in revenue on this program. Revenues from the DGS program are expected to be approximately $40 million over the first half of fiscal 2014 as the activity transitions to the successor contractor. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. For more information on these risks and uncertainties, see Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013. Reportable Segments In preparation for the planned separation transaction, we realigned certain business operations among our segments and renamed three of our reportable segments so that, effective February 1, 2013, our reportable segments include the following: Health and Engineering; National Security Solutions; Technical Services and Information Technology; and Corporate and Other. Following completion of the planned separation transaction, the Technical Services and Information Technology segment will comprise New SAIC and the Health and Engineering and National Security Solutions segments will comprise Leidos Holdings, Inc. For additional information regarding our reportable segments, see Note 8 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended May 3, 2013 contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and Business in Part I and Note 15 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013. Key Performance Measures The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income and cash flows from operations. We also believe that bookings and backlog are useful measures for management and investors to evaluate our potential future revenues. In addition, we consider measures such as contract types and revenue mix to be useful measures to management and investors evaluating our operating income and margin performance. Bookings and Backlog. We received net bookings worth an estimated $1.3 billion during the three months ended May 3, 2013. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of any adjustments to previously awarded backlog amounts. We calculate net bookings as the periods ending backlog plus the periods revenues less the prior periods ending backlog and less the backlog obtained in acquisitions during the period. 27 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed and excludes contract awards which have been protested by competitors. We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows: Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts, and does not include the unfunded portion of contracts where funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. Government and other customers, even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government agencies represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenues to be earned in the future from (1) negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and (2) unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedule, or other master agreement contract vehicles. The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates presented, with the prior period recast for consistency with the current periods presentation, was as follows: May 3, 2013 January 31, 2013 (in millions) Health and Engineering: Funded backlog $ 1,094 $ 1,295 Negotiated unfunded backlog 664 676 Total Health and Engineering backlog $ 1,758 $ 1,971 National Security Solutions: Funded backlog $ 1,878 $ 2,121 Negotiated unfunded backlog $ 5,740 6,037 Total National Security Solutions backlog $ 7,618 $ 8,158 Technical Services and Information Technology: Funded backlog $ 1,733 $ 1,945 Negotiated unfunded backlog $ 5,389 5,802 Total Technical Services and Information Technology backlog $ 7,122 $ 7,747 Total: Funded backlog $ 4,705 $ 5,361 Negotiated unfunded backlog 11,793 12,515 Total backlog $ 16,498 $ 17,876 Bookings and backlog fluctuate from period to period depending on our success rate in winning contracts and the timing of contract awards, renewals, modifications and cancellations. Contract awards continue to be negatively impacted by ongoing industry-wide delays in procurement decisions, which have resulted in an increase in the value of our submitted proposals awaiting decision. Contract awards have also been negatively impacted by budget cuts, including sequestration, by the U.S. Government as discussed in Business Environment and Trends in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. In addition, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. We have had one instance in the past three fiscal years where our U.S. Government customers have significantly terminated, canceled, modified or curtailed the scope of negotiated contracts. During fiscal 2012, the U.S. Army terminated for convenience the $2.7 billion Army Brigade Combat Team Modernization Engineering, Manufacturing and Development contract, which resulted in the elimination of approximately $500 million in contract backlog. 28 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Contract Types. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract. For additional information regarding the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see BusinessContract Types in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013. The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of total revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 April 30, 2012 Cost-reimbursement 42 % 42 % Time and materials (T&M) and fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) 28 30 Firm-fixed price (FFP) 30 28 Total 100 % 100 % Revenue Mix. We generate revenues under our contracts from (1) the efforts of our technical staff, which we refer to as labor-related revenues, and (2) the materials provided on a contract and efforts of our subcontractors, which we refer to as M&S revenues. M&S revenues are generated primarily from large, multi-year systems integration contracts and contracts in our logistics, readiness and sustainment business area, as well as through sales of our proprietary products, such as our border, port and mobile security products and our checked baggage explosive detection systems. While our proprietary products are more profitable, these products represent a small percentage of our M&S revenues and the majority of our M&S revenues generally have lower margins than our labor-related revenues. The following table presents changes in labor-related revenues and M&S revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 Percent change April 30, 2012 (dollars in millions) Labor-related revenues $ 1,491 0 % $ 1,498 As a percentage of revenues 55 % 54 % M&S revenues 1,216 (4 )% 1,266 As a percentage of revenues 45 % 46 % Labor-related revenues for the three months ended May 3, 2013 were relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. M&S revenues decreased primarily due to the ramp down of the DGS program, which had a significant volume of subcontracted activity. Geographic Location. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 Percent change April 30, 2012 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 2,707 (2 )% $ 2,764 Cost of revenues 2,378 (2 ) 2,433 Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A): General and administrative (G&A) 110 64 % 67 Bid and proposal (B&P) 30 (30 ) 43 Internal research and development (IR&D) 14 8 13 Separation transaction expenses 33 0 Operating income 142 (32 ) 208 Operating income margin 5.2 % 7.5 % Non-operating expense, net (15 ) (25 ) Income before income taxes 127 (31 ) 183 Provision for income taxes (46 ) (30 ) (66 ) Net income $ 81 (31 ) $ 117 We classify indirect costs incurred within or allocated to our government customers as overhead (included in cost of revenues) and G&A expenses in the same manner as such costs are defined in our disclosure statements under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards. 29 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Changes in Estimates on Contracts. Changes in estimates related to certain types of contracts accounted for using the percentage of completion method of accounting are recognized in the period in which such changes are made for the inception-to-date effect of the changes. Changes in these estimates can routinely occur over the contract performance period for a variety of reasons, including changes in contract scope, changes in contract cost estimates due to unanticipated cost growth or retirements of risk for amounts different than estimated, and changes in estimated incentive or award fees. Aggregate changes in contract estimates resulted in a decrease to operating income of $4 million ($0.01 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 3, 2013 and an increase to operating income of $4 million ($0.01 per diluted share) for the three months ended April 30, 2012. Reportable Segment Results. In preparation for the planned separation transaction, we realigned certain business operations among our reportable segments so that, effective February 1, 2013, our reportable segments include the following: Health and Engineering; National Security Solutions; Technical Services and Information Technology; and Corporate and Other. Prior year amounts have been recast for consistency with the current years presentation. The following table summarizes changes in Health and Engineering revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended Health and Engineering May 3, 2013 Percent change April 30, 2012 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 521 25 % $ 416 Operating income 41 17 35 Operating income margin 7.9 % 8.4 % Health and Engineering revenues increased $105 million, or 25%, including an internal revenue growth rate of 9%, for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. Revenue growth was primarily driven by revenues from the August 2012 acquisition of maxIT, a provider of healthcare IT consulting services to commercial clients. Internal revenue growth would have been 6% without the positive impact of two additional productive days as compared to the prior year period ($12 million). Internal revenue growth for the three months ended May 3, 2013 was positively impacted by higher engineering business volume primarily associated with power plant construction projects ($20 million) and increased unit deliveries and related maintenance of engineering products (previously referred to as non-intrusive inspection products) to both the federal government and international customers ($12 million). Health and Engineering operating income increased $6 million, or 17%, for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. The increase in operating income was driven by an increase in deliveries of engineering products, which typically generate higher margins, and increased revenue in other business areas. These increases were partially offset by a lower margin from the commercial health business primarily due an increase in intangible asset amortization expense ($5 million). The following table summarizes changes in National Security Solutions revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended National Security Solutions May 3, 2013 Percent change April 30, 2012 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 1,080 (9 )% $ 1,185 Operating income 76 (20 ) 95 Operating income margin 7.0 % 8.0 % National Security Solutions revenues decreased $105 million, or 9%, all of which was internal revenue contraction, for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. Internal revenue contraction would have been 12% without the positive impact of two additional productive days as compared to the prior year period ($36 million). Internal revenue contraction was primarily attributable to the ramp down of a systems integration and logistics program for tactical and mine resistant ambush protected vehicles ($67 million) along with the completion of an intelligence analysis program for a classified customer ($18 million) and an intelligence systems integration program for the U.S. Army ($15 million). Additional revenue declines ($78 million) arose from reduced activity on certain ongoing programs due to drawdowns of overseas U.S. military forces and U.S. Government budget reductions. The declines were partially offset by increased revenues related to three new intelligence analysis contracts for classified customers ($37 million). National Security Solutions operating income decreased $19 million, or 20%, for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. This decrease was primarily attributable to lower revenues, including 30 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION certain programs with relatively higher fee rates ($10 million), a decline in sales of higher-margin proprietary products ($5 million) and intangible asset impairment charges ($4 million). The following table summarizes changes in Technical Services and Information Technology revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended Technical Services and Information Technology May 3, 2013 Percent change April 30, 2012 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 1,107 (5 )% $ 1,163 Operating income 71 (16 ) 85 Operating income margin 6.4 % 7.3 % Technical Services and Information Technology revenues decreased $56 million, or 5%, all of which was internal revenue contraction, for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. Internal revenue contraction would have been 8% without the positive impact of two additional productive days as compared to the prior year period ($35 million). Internal revenue contraction was primarily attributable to the ramp down of the DGS program ($53 million) as well as decreased activity on a contract vehicle to provide infrastructure support to the DHS ($15 million) and a program to provide systems engineering solutions for the U.S. Navy ($14 million). Technical Services and Information Technology operating income decreased $14 million, or 16%, for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to net unfavorable changes in contract estimates compared to a net favorable change in the prior year period ($7 million) and lower revenues, including the ramp down of the DGS program which had relatively higher profit levels ($3 million). The following table summarizes changes in Corporate and Other revenues and operating loss for the periods presented: Three Months Ended Corporate and Other May 3, 2013 April 30, 2012 (in millions) Operating loss $ (46 ) $ (7 ) Corporate and Other operating loss for the three months ended May 3, 2013 represents corporate costs that are unallowable under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards and the net effect of various items that are not directly related to the operating performance of the reportable segments. Corporate and Other operating loss increased by $39 million for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year primarily due to costs associated with the planned separation transaction ($33 million), costs to establish infrastructures for the two future companies ($7 million), and settlements of legal and regulatory matters ($4 million). Non-Operating Expense. Non-operating expense for the three months ended May 3, 2013 decreased $10 million as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in interest expense of $9 million, primarily due to the payment of $550 million in July 2012 to settle the 6.25% notes at maturity. Interest expense for Science Applications decreased $9 million for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, reflecting a decrease in interest on third-party debt, which was primarily due to the payment of the $550 million notes discussed above. There was no change in interest expense related to Science Applications note with SAIC. This note may fluctuate significantly from year to year based on changes in the underlying note balance and interest rates throughout the fiscal year. Provision for Income Taxes. Our provision for income taxes as a percentage of income before income taxes was 36.2% for the three months ended May 3, 2013 compared to 36.1% for the corresponding period in the prior year. The increase in the effective tax rate for the current period was due to the estimated non-deductible portion of settlements of legal and regulatory matters, partially offset by the tax deductibility of the special dividend, which was declared during the three months ended May 3, 2013, on shares held by the SAIC Retirement Plan (an employee stock ownership plan) and the reinstatement of the research and development tax credit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. The effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2012 benefitted from a change in the estimated deductible amount of a legal settlement recorded in a prior fiscal year. We file income tax returns in the United States and various state and foreign jurisdictions and have effectively settled with the IRS for fiscal years prior to and including fiscal 2008. We also settled fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 as a result of our 31 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION participation in the IRS Compliance Assurance Process (CAP) beginning in fiscal 2011. As part of CAP, we endeavor to agree with the IRS on the treatment of all tax positions prior to the filing of the tax return, thereby greatly reducing the period of time between return submission and settlement with the IRS. As of May 3, 2013, we had liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $25 million, $21 million of which were classified as other long-term liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The resolution of certain of these tax matters could result in a $12 million reduction in our uncertain tax positions and a $9 million reduction in income tax expense during the third quarter of fiscal 2014. Diluted Earnings per Share (EPS). Diluted EPS decreased $0.12 per share to $0.23 per share for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year primarily due to a decrease in net income and an increase of 6 million, or 2%, in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding. Discontinued Operations. From time to time, we may dispose (or management may commit to plans to dispose) of non-strategic components of our business, which are reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In fiscal 2013, we sold certain components of our business, which were historically included in the Health and Engineering segment, primarily focused on providing operational test and evaluation services. The pre-sale operating results of this discontinued operation were as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 (in millions) Revenues $ 18 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues 15 Selling, general and administrative expenses 3 Operating income $ Income from discontinued operations also includes other activity that is immaterial and not reflected in the amounts above. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $563 million in cash and cash equivalents at May 3, 2013, which were primarily comprised of investments held in several large institutional money market funds that invest primarily in bills, notes and bonds issued by the U.S. Treasury, U.S. Government guaranteed repurchase agreements fully collateralized by U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. Government guaranteed securities and investment-grade corporate securities that have original maturities of three months or less. We anticipate our principal sources of liquidity for the next 12 months and beyond will be our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations. We may also borrow under our $750 million revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility is backed by a number of financial institutions, matures in fiscal 2018 and, by its terms, can be accessed on a same-day basis. In addition, prior to the completion of the planned separation transaction, we expect New SAIC will raise indebtedness in the amount of $500 million, of which $295 million is expected to be used to fund a cash distribution to SAIC in connection with the separation. We anticipate our principal uses of cash for the next 12 months and beyond will be for operating expenses, expenses related to the planned separation transaction, capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses, stock repurchases and dividends. We anticipate that our operating cash flows, existing cash and cash equivalents, which have no restrictions on withdrawal, and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. Historical Trends Cash and cash equivalents was $563 million and $736 million at May 3, 2013 and January 31, 2013, respectively. The following table summarizes cash flow information for the periods presented: Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 April 30, 2012 (in millions) Cash used in operating activities of continuing operations $ (111 ) $ (361 ) Cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations 8 (7 ) Cash used in financing activities of continuing operations (53 ) (57 ) Cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations (17 ) Total decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (173 ) $ (425 ) 32 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Cash Used in Operating Activities of Continuing Operations. Cash flows used in operating activities of continuing operations decreased $250 million for the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. Cash flows used in operating activities of continuing operations for the three months ended May 3, 2013 were negatively impacted by an increase in the average time to collect accounts receivable as a result of the discontinuance of the U.S. Governments accelerated payment initiative that encouraged agencies to more timely pay contractors. In addition, there was one additional payroll in the three months ended May 3, 2013 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. Cash flows used in operating activities of continuing operations for the three months ended April 30, 2012 included a $500 million cash settlement payment related to the CityTime program described in Note 9 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities of Continuing Operations. We had cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations of $8 million during the three months ended May 3, 2013, which resulted from proceeds of $25 million from the sale of facilities, partially offset by $19 million to purchase property, plant and equipment. We used $7 million of cash in support of investing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended April 30, 2012, including $8 million to purchase property, plant and equipment. Cash Used in Financing Activities of Continuing Operations . We used $53 million of cash in support of financing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended May 3, 2013, including payment of a $41 million quarterly dividend and $16 million to repurchase shares of our stock. We used $57 million of cash in support of financing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended April 30, 2012, including payment of a $41 million quarterly dividend and $19 million to repurchase shares of our stock. Cash Used in Operating Activities of Discontinued Operations . Cash flows used in operating activities of discontinued operations was primarily attributable to the payment of the tax on the gain from the sale of certain components of our business in fiscal 2013. Science Applications Cash Flows . Any differences in cash flows from operating activities for Science Applications as compared to SAIC are primarily attributable to changes in interest payments (which reduce cash flow from operating activities of Science Applications) made by Science Applications on its note to SAIC and changes in excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation (which reduce cash flows from operating activities for SAIC). Science Applications used cash in financing activities of $53 million during the three months ended May 3, 2013, including repayments on its related party note with SAIC of $57 million partially offset by proceeds from the related party note with SAIC of $4 million. Science Applications used cash from financing activities of $258 million during the three months ended April 30, 2012, including repayments on the related party note with SAIC of $283 million, partially offset by proceeds from the related party note with SAIC of $26 million. Special Cash Dividend In March 2013, SAICs board of directors declared a special cash dividend of $1.00 per share of SAIC common stock payable on June 28, 2013 to stockholders of record on June 14, 2013. Outstanding Indebtedness Notes Payable and Long-term Debt. Our outstanding notes payable and long-term debt consisted of the following: Stated interest rate Effective interest rate May 3, 2013 January 31, 2013 (dollars in millions) SAIC senior unsecured notes: $450 million notes, which mature in December 2020 4.45 % 4.53 % $ 449 $ 449 $300 million notes, which mature in December 2040 5.95 % 6.03 % 300 300 Science Applications senior unsecured notes: $250 million notes, which mature in July 2032 7.13 % 7.43 % 248 248 $300 million notes, which mature in July 2033 5.50 % 5.78 % 296 297 Capital leases and other notes payable due on various dates through fiscal 2017 0%-2.4 % Various 5 4 Total notes payable and long-term debt 1,298 1,298 Less current portion 1 2 Total notes payable and long-term debt, net of current portion $ 1,297 $ 1,296 Fair value of notes payable and long-term debt $ 1,432 $ 1,390 These notes contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. We were in compliance with all covenants as of May 3, 2013. 33 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Credit Facility . SAIC has a revolving credit facility, which is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Science Applications, providing for up to $750 million in unsecured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined, at SAICs option, based on either LIBOR plus a margin or a defined base rate. During the three months ended May 3, 2013, the maturity date of the credit facility was extended for one additional year to March 2017. As of May 3, 2013 and January 31, 2013, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility contains certain customary representations and warranties, as well as certain affirmative and negative covenants. During the three months ended May 3, 2013, the financial covenants in the credit facility were amended to: (i) permit in the calculation of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) the adding back of certain expenses incurred in connection with our planned separation transaction; (ii) exclude the effect of debt incurred in connection with the separation transaction for purposes of calculating consolidated funded debt; and (iii) change the ratio of consolidated funded debt to EBITDA that we are required to maintain. The financial covenants contained in the credit facility require that, for a period of four trailing fiscal quarters, we maintain a ratio of consolidated funded debt, including borrowings under this facility, to EBITDA adjusted for other items as defined in the credit facility of not more than 3.25 to 1.0 and a ratio of EBITDA adjusted for other items as defined in the credit facility to interest expense of greater than 3.5 to 1.0. We were in compliance with these financial covenants as of May 3, 2013. A failure by us to meet these financial covenants in the future would reduce and could eliminate our borrowing capacity under the credit facility. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain of our unconsolidated joint venture investments. We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in Note 10 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended May 3, 2013 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition. We have also entered into an agreement with a variable interest entity (VIE) in connection with a renewable energy project as described in Note 10 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended May 3, 2013 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits and other uncertainties related to our business. For a discussion of these items, see Notes 9 and 10 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended May 3, 2013 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and assumptions have been prepared on the basis of the most current reasonably available information. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We have several critical accounting policies, which were described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013, that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the three months ended May 3, 2013. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we refer to internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that we reconcile to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We calculate our internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage by comparing our reported revenues for the current year period to the revenues for the prior year period adjusted to include the actual revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period before acquisition. This calculation has the effect of adding revenues for the acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period to our prior year period reported revenues. We use internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage as an indicator of how successful we are at growing our base business and how successful we are at growing the revenues of the businesses that we acquire. Our integration of acquired businesses 34 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION allows our current management to leverage business development capabilities, drive internal resource collaboration, utilize access to markets and qualifications, and refine strategies to realize synergies, which benefits both acquired and existing businesses. As a result, the performance of the combined enterprise post-acquisition is an important measurement. In addition, as a means of rewarding the successful integration and growth of acquired businesses, and not acquisitions themselves, incentive compensation for senior management is based, in part, on achievement of revenue targets linked to internal revenue growth. The limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is that internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage is one of two components of the total revenue growth (contraction) percentage, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We address this limitation by presenting the total revenue growth (contraction) percentage next to or near disclosures of internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage. This financial measure is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The method that we use to calculate internal revenue growth (contraction) percentage is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies. Internal revenue growth (contraction) percentages for the three months ended May 3, 2013 were calculated as follows: Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 (dollars in millions) Health and Engineering: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 416 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period 63 Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 479 Current year periods revenues, as reported 521 Internal revenue growth $ 42 Internal revenue growth percentage 9 % National Security Solutions: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 1,185 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 1,185 Current year periods revenues, as reported 1,080 Internal revenue contraction $ (105 ) Internal revenue contraction percentage (9 )% Technical Services and Information Technology: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 1,163 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 1,163 Current year periods revenues, as reported 1,107 Internal revenue contraction $ (56 ) Internal revenue contraction percentage (5 )% Total*: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 2,764 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period 63 Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 2,827 Current year periods revenues, as reported 2,707 Internal revenue contraction $ (120 ) Internal revenue contraction percentage (4 )% * Total revenues include amounts related to Corporate and Other and intersegment eliminations. 35 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Effects of Inflation Approximately 42% of our revenues are derived from cost-reimbursement type contracts, which are not subject to the impacts of inflation. Contracts for long-term FFP and T&M and FP-LOE contracts typically include sufficient provisions for labor and other cost escalations to cover anticipated cost increases over the period of performance. Consequently, revenues and costs have generally both been impacted similarly by inflation. As a result, net income as a percentage of total revenues has not been significantly impacted by inflation.