Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are presented for our continuing operations. For additional information regarding our reportable segments, see Item 1. Business in Part I and Note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. Key Financial Metrics Bookings and Backlog. We received net bookings worth an estimated $3.2 billion during the three months ended April 30, 2010. Bookings generally represent the estimated amount of revenue to be earned in the future from funded and unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of any adjustments to previously awarded backlog amounts. We calculate net bookings as the periods ending backlog plus the periods revenues less the prior periods ending backlog and less the backlog obtained in acquisitions during the period. Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows: Funded Backlog. Government segment funded backlog primarily represents contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Government segment funded backlog does not include the unfunded portion of contracts where funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. Government and other customers, even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Commercial segment funded backlog represents the full value on firm contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from (1) negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and (2) unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Schedule, or other master agreement contract vehicles. The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates noted was as follows: April 30, 2010 January 31, 2010 (in millions) Government segment: Funded backlog $ 5,073 $ 4,684 Negotiated unfunded backlog 10,274 10,168 Total Government segment backlog $ 15,347 $ 14,852 Commercial segment: Funded backlog $ 532 $ 568 Negotiated unfunded backlog 171 155 Total Commercial segment backlog $ 703 $ 723 Total: Funded backlog $ 5,605 $ 5,252 Negotiated unfunded backlog 10,445 10,323 Total backlog $ 16,050 $ 15,575 Total backlog may fluctuate from period to period depending on our success rate in winning contracts and the timing of contract awards, renewals, modifications and cancellations. 20 SAIC, INC. The DoD is in the process of restructuring one of our largest programs, Future Combat Systems, which has been renamed Army Brigade Combat Team Modernization. As a result of this restructuring, certain efforts associated with the program were terminated for convenience by the DoD in July 2009 and January 2010. We received an undefinitized change order which requires us to submit a restructure proposal. We submitted the restructure proposal to our prime contractor in April 2010. We continue to perform on this program in accordance with the revised scope of work under a reduced provisional billing rate that allows us to receive a lesser amount of the projected fee on an interim basis. The future volume and profitability of this program is dependent on the outcome of the change order negotiations. Included within the Government segment backlog above is approximately $90 million in funded backlog and $480 million in negotiated unfunded backlog related to this program, which represents our best estimate of our remaining effort under this restructured contract. Of these amounts, we expect to recognize revenues of approximately $200 million during the remainder of fiscal 2011 under the restructured program. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time. In addition, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and potential fees for work performed. Contract Types. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each of the following types of contracts: Cost-reimbursement contracts provide for reimbursement of our direct contract costs and allocable indirect costs, plus a fee. These contracts include cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-award-fee and cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts. Time-and-materials (T&M) contracts typically provide for negotiated fixed hourly rates for specified categories of direct labor plus reimbursement of other direct costs. Fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) contracts are substantially similar to T&M contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated period of time. Firm-fixed-price (FFP) contracts provide for a fixed price for specified products, systems and/or services. For additional information regarding the types of contracts used, including advantages and disadvantages see Item 1. BusinessContract Types in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of total revenues for the periods noted: Three Months Ended April 30 2010 2009 Cost-reimbursement 47 % 48 % T&M and FP-LOE 31 31 FFP 22 21 Total 100 % 100 % Revenue Mix. We generate revenues under our contracts from (1) the efforts of our technical staff, which we refer to as labor-related revenues, and (2) the materials provided on contracts and efforts of our subcontractors, which we refer to as M&S revenues. M&S revenues are generated primarily from large, multi-year systems integration contracts and contracts in our logistics and product support business area, as well as through sales of our proprietary products, such as our border, port and mobile security products. While our border, port and mobile security products are more profitable than other M&S revenues, these products represent a small percentage of our M&S revenues and the majority of our M&S revenues generally have lower margins than our labor-related revenues. The following table presents changes in labor-related revenues and M&S revenues for the periods noted: Three Months Ended April 30 2010 Percent change 2009 (dollars in millions) Labor-related revenues $ 1,609 2% $ 1,571 As a percentage of revenues 60 % 59 % M&S revenues 1,076 1,078 As a percentage of revenues 40 % 41 % The increase in labor-related revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to an increase in labor rates. 21 SAIC, INC. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods noted: Three Months Ended April 30 2010 Percent change 2009 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 2,685 1 % $ 2,649 Cost of revenues 2,352 2 2,295 Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A): General and administrative (G&A) 77 (27 ) 105 Bid and proposal (B&P) 37 6 35 Internal research and development (IR&D) 12 20 10 Operating income 207 1 204 As a percentage of revenues 7.7 % 7.7 % Non-operating expense, net (18 ) (15 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 189 189 Provision for income taxes (64 ) (11 ) (72 ) Income from continuing operations 125 7 117 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) Net income $ 125 8 $ 116 We classify indirect costs incurred within or allocated to our Government segment as overhead (included in cost of revenues) and G&A expenses in the same manner as such costs are defined in our disclosure statements under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards. Effective with the beginning of fiscal 2011, we updated our disclosure statements with the Defense Contract Management Agency, resulting in certain costs being classified differently as either overhead or G&A expenses on a prospective basis. This change has caused a net increase in reported cost of revenues and a net decrease in reported G&A expenses in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change. Revenues. Our revenues increased $36 million, or 1% for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year. The internal revenue growth rate (as defined in Non-GAAP Financial Measures) was negative 1% for the three months ended April 30, 2010 primarily due to a lack of internal revenue growth in our Government segment. The following table summarizes changes in segment revenues for the periods noted: Three Months Ended April 30 2010 Percent change 2009 (dollars in millions) Government segment revenues $ 2,580 2 % $ 2,536 As a percentage of total revenues 96 % 96 % Commercial segment revenues 107 (6 ) 114 As a percentage of total revenues 4 % 4 % Intersegment elimination (2 ) (100 ) (1 ) Total revenues $ 2,685 1 $ 2,649 Government segment revenues increased $44 million, or 2%, including an internal revenue growth rate of negative 1%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Internal revenue growth was negatively impacted by fewer new contract starts, resulting from lower bookings in fiscal 2010 and lower demand for materials on a number of programs during the three months ended April 30, 2010. Commercial segment revenues decreased $7 million, or 6%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the expiration of certain customer contracts ($5 million), including an IT outsourcing contract of our United Kingdom subsidiary, and reduced volume in our consulting services and information technology business area, which we believe was due to general economic conditions. Operating Income. Total operating income increased $3 million, or 1%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year. As a percentage of revenues, operating income remained consistent for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year. 22 SAIC, INC. The following table summarizes changes in segment operating income for the periods noted: Three Months Ended April 30 2010 Percent change 2009 (dollars in millions) Government segment operating income $ 209 2 % $ 204 As a percentage of related revenues 8.1 % 8.0 % Commercial segment operating income 1 (86 ) 7 As a percentage of related revenues 0.9 % 6.1 % Corporate and Other segment operating loss (3 ) (57 ) (7 ) Total operating income $ 207 1 $ 204 As a percentage of revenues 7.7 % 7.7 % Government segment operating income increased $5 million, or 2%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year, reflecting increased profitability from sales and maintenance of border, port and mobile security products ($11 million) partially offset by the dilutive effects of the recent acquisition of a cyber security company ($6 million). Commercial segment operating income decreased $6 million, or 86%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to $3 million of severance and related costs in connection with the expiration of an IT outsourcing contract of our United Kingdom subsidiary in fiscal 2011 in addition to the impact of reduced revenues in our consulting services and information technology business area, which we believe was due to general economic conditions. Corporate and Other segment loss for the three months ended April 30, 2010 and 2009 represents corporate costs that are unallowable under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards and the net effect of various items that are not directly related to the business units operating performance in the Government or Commercial segments. Corporate and Other segment operating loss decreased $4 million, or 57%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a decline in stock option expense ($2 million) as a result of a decrease in the number of stock options issued in recent years. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes decreased $8 million, or 11%, as compared to the same period of the prior year. As a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes, the provision of income taxes was 33.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to 38.1% for the same period in the prior year. The lower effective income tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily attributable to a $9 million reduction in the provision for income taxes resulting from the resolution of certain tax uncertainties. We file income tax returns in the United States and various state and foreign jurisdictions and have effectively settled with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal years prior to and including fiscal 2008. Effective fiscal 2011, we are participating in the IRS Compliance Assurance Process (CAP), in which we and the IRS endeavor to agree on the treatment of all tax positions prior to the return being filed, thereby greatly reducing the period of time between return submission and settlement with the IRS. Income from Continuing Operations. Income from continuing operations increased $8 million, or 7%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a decrease in the provision for income taxes of $8 million (representing a 4.2 percentage point decrease in the effective tax rate). Diluted Earnings per Share (EPS) from Continuing Operations . Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $.03 per share, or 10%, as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an $8 million, or 7%, increase in income from continuing operations and a decline in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding of 19 million, or 5%, primarily due to share repurchases. Net Income and Diluted EPS. Net income increased $9 million, or 8%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in net income for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year reflects an increase in income from continuing operations of $8 million and a decrease in loss from discontinued operations of $1 million. Diluted EPS increased $.04 per share, or 14%, for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in net income of $9 million and a decline in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding of 19 million, or 5%, primarily due to share repurchases. 23 SAIC, INC. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $568 million in cash and cash equivalents at April 30, 2010, which were primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds that invest primarily in bills, notes and bonds issued by the U.S. Treasury, U.S. Government guaranteed repurchase agreements fully collateralized by U.S. Treasury obligations and U.S. Government guaranteed securities and that have original maturities of three months or less. We anticipate our principal sources of liquidity for the next 12 months and beyond will be our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations. We may also borrow under our $750 million revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility, which is backed by ten financial institutions, matures in fiscal 2013 and, by its terms, can be accessed on a same-day basis. We anticipate our principal uses of cash for the next 12 months and beyond will be for operating expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses, stock repurchases and funding of pension obligations. We anticipate that our operating cash flows, existing cash and cash equivalents, which have no restrictions on withdrawal, and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. Historical Trends Cash and cash equivalents was $568 million and $861 million at April 30, 2010 and January 31, 2010, respectively. The following table summarizes cash flow information for the periods noted: Three Months Ended April 30 2010 2009 (in millions) Total cash flows provided by operations $ 138 $ 163 Total cash flows used in investing activities (164 ) (1 ) Total cash flows used in financing activities (264 ) (205 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations (1 ) 4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (2 ) 1 Total decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (293 ) $ (38 ) Cash Provided by Operations. Cash flows from operations decreased $25 million for the three months ended April 30, 2010 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Cash flows from operations was primarily impacted by timing driven decreases in tax payments ($12 million) and customer demand driven changes in inventory balances ($12 million) for the three months ended April 30, 2009 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2010. Cash Used in Investing Activities. We used $164 million of cash in support of investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2010 including $140 million to acquire a business and $25 million to purchase property, plant and equipment including increased spending on information technology modernization projects and construction projects on existing or new leased facilities. We used $1 million of cash in support of investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2009, including $12 million to purchase property, plant and equipment offset by $12 million in proceeds from sales of investments. Cash Used in Financing Activities. We used $264 million of cash in support of financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2010, including $291 million to repurchase shares of our stock partially offset by $13 million in proceeds from the sale of stock under our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) and exercises of stock options and $14 million in excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation. We used $205 million of cash in support of financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2009, including $223 million to repurchase shares of our stock and $15 million for payments on notes payable and long-term debt partially offset by $20 million in proceeds from the sale of stock under our ESPP and exercises of stock options and $13 million in excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation. Stock Repurchase Program Our board of directors has authorized a stock repurchase program under which we may repurchase shares of our common stock as part of our overall strategy for capital allocation. Stock repurchases under this program may be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions with third parties. Whether repurchases are made and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased depends on a variety of factors including price, corporate capital requirements, other market conditions and regulatory requirements. From inception of the stock repurchase program in December 2006 through April 30, 2010, we have repurchased an aggregate of 73 million shares. As of April 30, 2010, there were 15 million shares remaining authorized for repurchase under the program. Underfunded Pension Obligation We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan for eligible employees of our United Kingdom subsidiary that primarily performed services on a specific customer contract, which expired on March 31, 2010. As of January 31, 2010, the pension plan had an underfunded projected benefit obligation of $42 million and an unrecognized actuarial loss (pre-tax) of $50 million. In 24 SAIC, INC. February 2010, we were notified by the customer that it had entered into a follow-on contract with a successor contractor. In April 2010, employees then performing services on the customer contract transferred to the successor contractor following contract expiration. During the three months ended April 30, 2010, we recognized charges (pre-tax) of $3 million from severance and additional contractual retirement benefits related to reductions in pension eligible personnel who were not transferred to the successor contractor. Upon the completion of these actions, there will be no active employees participating in the pension plan. We will have continuing defined benefit pension obligations with respect to former employees who performed services on the customer contract that remain covered by the plan. We expect to recognize charges (pre-tax) of $20 million to $30 million during fiscal 2011 from recognition of losses related to the underfunded pension obligations associated with certain employees whose pension plan assets and obligations are expected to transfer to the successor contractor and from related costs. We expect these remaining charges will be primarily non-cash. The definitive amount of the charges we will incur depends on the number of employees who elect to transfer their pension benefits to the successor contractor, the amount of assets and obligations to be transferred, the performance of the pension plan assets and the date on which the pension plan assets and obligations actually transfer. Outstanding Indebtedness Notes Payable and Long-term Debt. Our outstanding notes payable and long-term debt consisted of the following: April 30, 2010 January 31, 2010 (in millions) $550 million 6.25% notes due fiscal 2013 $ 549 $ 549 $300 million 5.5% notes due fiscal 2034 296 296 $250 million 7.125% notes due fiscal 2033 248 248 Capital leases and other notes payable 13 13 1,106 1,106 Less current portion 3 3 Total $ 1,103 $ 1,103 These notes contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. We were in compliance with all covenants as of April 30, 2010. Credit Facility. We have an unused revolving credit facility providing for $750 million in unsecured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined, at our option, based on either LIBOR plus a margin or a defined base rate through fiscal 2013. The facility contains financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants. As of April 30, 2010, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit facility. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain of our unconsolidated joint venture investments as described in Note 19 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition. Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits and other uncertainties related to our business. For a discussion of these items, see Notes 9 and 10 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended April 30, 2010 contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an on-going basis. Our estimates and assumptions have been prepared on the basis of the most current reasonably available information at the time of estimation. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. 25 SAIC, INC. We have several critical accounting policies, which were described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, that are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments complex and difficult have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The following discussion of our revenue recognition policy updates the discussion of such policy in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. Accounting Change. Effective February 1, 2010, we changed our method of revenue recognition for cost-plus-fixed-fee, time-and-materials and fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts with the U.S. Government to the methods described below. Contract costs will continue to be expensed as incurred under these contracts. Cost-plus-fixed-fee contractsRevenue is recognized on the basis of partial performance as costs are incurred together with an estimate of applicable fees as we become contractually entitled to reimbursement of costs and the applicable fees pursuant to the guidance in ASC 912-605-25 Contractors-Federal GovernmentRecognition of Fees Under Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee Contracts. Time-and-materials contractsRevenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting utilizing an output measure to measure progress toward completion based on the hours provided in performance under the contract multiplied by the negotiated contract billing rates, plus the negotiated contract billing rate of any allowable material and subcontract costs and out-of-pocket expenses. Fixed-price-level-of-effort contractsThese contracts are substantially similar to time-and-materials contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated period of time. Accordingly, we recognize revenue in a manner similar to time-and-materials contracts whereby we utilize the percentage-of-completion method of accounting utilizing an output measure. We measure progress toward completion based on the hours provided in performance under the contract multiplied by the negotiated contract billing rates, plus the negotiated contract billing rate of any allowable material costs and out-of-pocket expenses. The revenue recognition change impacts contracts accounting for approximately two-thirds of our revenues. We believe the change is to an alternative accounting principle that is preferable because we believe it better reflects the economic substance and earnings process under these arrangements. This change was facilitated by the implementation of a new information technology system. Although this change impacts contracts accounting for approximately two-thirds of our revenues, the result of the accounting change was immaterial to our consolidated financial position and results of operations for all periods presented because the resulting measurement of the progress toward completion under the two methods is not significantly different. Accordingly, the cumulative effect of the accounting change was recognized in the consolidated statement of income in the first quarter, rather than retrospectively applied to the prior period consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition . We generate our revenues from various types of contracts, which include firm-fixed-price, time-and-materials, fixed-price-level-of-effort, cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-award-fee and cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts. Cost-plus-fixed-fee contractsRevenue is recognized on cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts with the U.S. Government on the basis of partial performance equal to costs incurred plus an estimate of applicable fees earned as we become contractually entitled to reimbursement of costs and the applicable fees. Time-and-materials contractsRevenue is recognized on time-and-materials contracts with the U.S. Government using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting utilizing an output measure of progress. Revenue is recognized on time-and-materials contracts with non-U.S. Government customers using a proportional performance method. Under both of these methods, revenue is recognized based on the hours provided in performance under the contract multiplied by the negotiated contract billing rates, plus the negotiated contract billing rate of any allowable material and subcontract costs and out-of-pocket expenses. Fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts (FPLOE)These contracts are substantially similar to time-and-materials contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated period of time. Accordingly, we recognize revenue on FPLOE contracts with the U.S. Government in a manner similar to time-and-materials contracts whereby we measure progress toward completion based on the hours provided in performance under the contract multiplied by the negotiated contract billing rates, plus the negotiated contract billing rate of any allowable material costs and out-of-pocket expenses. Cost-plus-award-fee/cost-plus-incentive fee contractsRevenues and fees on these contracts with the U.S. Government are primarily recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, most often based on the cost-to-cost method. We include an estimate of the ultimate incentive or award fee to be received on the contract in the estimate of contract revenues for purposes of applying the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. 26 SAIC, INC. Firm-fixed-price contractsRevenues and fees on these contracts that are system integration or engineering in nature are primarily recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting utilizing the cost-to-cost method. Revenues from services and maintenance contracts, notwithstanding the type of contract, are recognized over the term of the respective contracts as the services are performed and revenue is earned. Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed based on objective measures of output. Revenues from the sale of manufactured products are recorded upon passage of title and risk of loss to the customer, which is generally upon delivery, provided that all other requirements for revenue recognition have been met. We also use the efforts-expended method of percentage-of-completion using measures such as labor dollars for measuring progress toward completion in situations in which this approach is more representative of the progress on the contract. For example, the efforts-expended method is utilized when there are significant amounts of materials or hardware procured for the contract that is not representative of progress on the contract. Additionally, we utilize the units-of-delivery method under percentage-of-completion on contracts where separate units of output are produced. Under the units-of-delivery method, revenue is generally recognized when the units are delivered to the customer, provided that all other requirements for revenue recognition have been met. We also evaluate contracts for multiple elements, and when appropriate, separate the contracts into separate units of accounting for revenue recognition. We provide for anticipated losses on all types of contracts by recording an expense during the period in which the losses are determined. Amounts billed and collected but not yet recognized as revenues under certain types of contracts are deferred. Contract costs incurred for U.S. Government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations with government representatives. Revenues on U.S. Government contracts have been recorded in amounts that are expected to be realized upon final settlement. Our accounts receivable include unbilled receivables, which consist of costs and fees billable upon contract completion or the occurrence of a specified event, the majority of which is expected to be billed and collected within one year. Unbilled receivables are stated at estimated realizable value. Contract retentions are billed when we have negotiated final indirect rates with the U.S. Government and, once billed, are subject to audit and approval by government representatives. Consequently, the timing of collection of retention balances is outside our control. Based on our historical experience, the majority of retention balances are expected to be collected beyond one year. Contract claims are unanticipated additional costs incurred but not provided for in the executed contract price that we seek to recover from the customer. Such costs are expensed as incurred. Additional revenue related to contract claims is recognized when the amounts are awarded by the customer. In certain situations, primarily where we are not the primary obligor on certain elements of a contract such as the provision of administrative oversight and/or management of government-owned facilities or logistical support services related to other vendors products, we recognize as revenues the net management fee associated with the services and exclude from our income statement the gross sales and costs associated with facility or other vendors products. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we refer to internal revenue growth percentage, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that we reconcile to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We calculate our internal revenue growth percentage by comparing our reported revenue for the current year period to the revenue for the prior year period adjusted to include the actual revenue of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period before acquisition. This calculation has the effect of adding revenue for the acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period to our prior year period reported revenue. We use internal revenue growth percentage as an indicator of how successful we are at growing our base business and how successful we are at growing the revenues of the businesses that we acquire. We believe that our integration of acquired businesses allows our current management to leverage business development capabilities, drive internal resource collaboration, utilize access to markets and qualifications, and refine strategies to realize synergies, which benefits both acquired and existing businesses. As a result, the performance of the combined enterprise post-acquisition is an important measurement. In addition, as a means of rewarding the successful integration and growth of acquired businesses, and not acquisitions themselves, incentive compensation for our executives and the broader employee population is based, in part, on achievement of revenue targets linked to internal revenue growth. The limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is that internal revenue growth percentage is one of two components of the total revenue growth percentage, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We address this limitation by presenting the total revenue growth 27 SAIC, INC. percentage next to or near disclosures of internal revenue growth percentage. This financial measure is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP financial measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The method that we use to calculate internal revenue growth percentage is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies. Internal revenue growth percentages for the three months ended April 30, 2010 were calculated as follows (in millions): Government segment: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 2,536 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period 71 Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 2,607 Current year periods revenues, as reported 2,580 Internal revenue growth $ (27 ) Internal revenue growth percentage (1 )% Commercial segment: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 114 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 114 Current year periods revenues, as reported 107 Internal revenue growth $ (7 ) Internal revenue growth percentage (6 )% Total: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 2,649 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period 71 Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 2,720 Current year periods revenues, as reported 2,685 Internal revenue growth $ (35 ) Internal revenue growth percentage (1 )% Effects of Inflation Approximately 50% of our revenues are derived from cost-reimbursement type contracts, which are generally completed within one year. Bids for longer-term FFP and T&M and FP-LOE contracts typically include sufficient provisions for labor and other cost escalations to cover anticipated cost increases over the period of performance. Consequently, revenues and costs have generally both increased commensurate with the economy. As a result, net income as a percentage of total revenues has not been significantly impacted by inflation.