Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reportable Segments Our business is aligned into four reportable segments: Defense Solutions; Health, Energy and Civil Solutions; Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions; and Corporate and Other. While each reportable segment is organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets as described in the segment descriptions below, we provide a wide array of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments, but which are performed specifically to meet the needs of the market and customers served in a particular segment. These services and solutions include: Systems Engineering and Integration. We provide systems engineering and implementation services and solutions to help our customers design and integrate complex network processes and infrastructure. These services and solutions include designing, installing, testing, repairing, maintaining and upgrading systems and processes. Software Development. We provide software development services and solutions to help our customers maximize value by extending and renovating critical systems through software capabilities. These services include automating code generation, managing computer resources, and merging and evaluating large amounts of data. Cybersecurity. We provide services and solutions to help our customers prepare for, protect against, and respond to a wide array of cybersecurity threats. These services and solutions include designing comprehensive cyber-risk management programs to identify and neutralize cyber attacks, integrating and managing information security services to protect customers mission-critical data, identifying and advising in connection with the selection of disaster recovery plans and performing tests to certify that information technology (IT) systems operate in accordance with design requirements. SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 1 Table of Contents PART I Secure Information Sharing and Collaboration. We provide services and solutions to help our customers share information and resources, including designing and developing information systems that access, process and analyze vast amounts of data from various sources to facilitate timely information sharing, collaboration and decision making. Communication Systems and Infrastructure. We provide services and solutions to help our customers design and implement state-of-the-art communication systems. These services and solutions include designing, installing, testing, repairing and maintaining voice, data and video communication systems and infrastructures. Research and Development. We conduct leading-edge research and development of new technologies with applications in areas such as national security, intelligence and life sciences. Securing Critical Infrastructure. We provide customers with services and solutions to protect critical infrastructure from acts of terrorism and natural disasters as well as from threats due to error, maliciousness, wear and tear, planning oversights and previously unforeseen vulnerabilities. These services and solutions include risk management (vulnerability assessments and threat identification), training exercises and simulations, awareness programs, physical security, protection and detection systems and critical infrastructure continuity and contingency planning as well as casualty and damage assessment tools and disaster recovery services. Modeling and Simulation. We provide applied research and technology and modeling and simulation services and solutions to the U.S. military, space and intelligence communities, including support related to mission preparation, launch and execution. Enterprise Information Solutions. We provide a comprehensive set of IT service offerings including enterprise information technology optimization, business intelligence, enterprise resource planning maintenance and staff augmentation services. In preparation for the proposed separation transaction which is expected to occur in the latter half of calendar year 2013, effective February 1, 2013, we transferred certain business operations primarily focused on providing enterprise information technology services to federal civilian agencies of the U.S. Government from the Health, Engineering, and Civil Solutions segment to the Defense Solutions segment. We also transferred certain business operations primarily focused on providing command, control, communications, and computer solutions to the DoD from the Defense Solutions segment to the Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions segment. As a result, our operating segments for fiscal 2014 will be reflective of this new business alignment, and one of our operating segments will represent the entirety of the technical, engineering and enterprise information services business that will be included in the separation transaction. Defense Solutions Defense Solutions provides systems engineering and specialized technical services and solutions in support of command and control, communications, modeling and simulation, logistics, readiness and sustainment and network operations to a broad customer base within the defense industry. Defense Solutions helps design and implement advanced, networked command and control systems to enable U.S. and allied defense customers to plan, direct, coordinate and control forces and operations at strategic, operational and tactical levels. Defense Solutions also provides a wide range of logistics, product support and force modernization solutions, including supply chain management, demand forecasting, distribution, sustaining engineering, maintenance and training services, to enhance the readiness and operational capability of U.S. military personnel and their weapons and support systems. Major customers of Defense Solutions include most branches of the U.S. military. Defense Solutions represented 42%, 40% and 43% of total revenues for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Health, Energy and Civil Solutions Health, Energy and Civil Solutions provides services and solutions in the areas of critical infrastructure, homeland security, safety and mission assurance, training, environmental assessments and restoration, engineering design, construction, electronic health record implementations and other sophisticated IT services across a broad federal and commercial customer base. These services and solutions range from engineering, design and construction services, energy management, renewables and energy distribution/smart-grid, to healthcare IT, data management and analytics, health infrastructure and biomedical support and research. Health, Energy and Civil Solutions also provides integrated security solutions and training expertise in the detection of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive threats and designs and develops products and applied technologies that aid anti-terrorism and homeland security efforts, including border, port and security inspection systems and checked baggage explosive detection systems. Major customers of Health, Energy and Civil Solutions primarily include the U.S. federal government, state and local governmental agencies, foreign governments and commercial enterprises in various industries. Health, Energy and Civil Solutions represented 25%, 26% and 25% of total revenues for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions provides systems and services focused on intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and cybersecurity across a broad spectrum of national security programs. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions provides 2 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I quick reaction, manned and unmanned airborne, maritime, space and ground-based surveillance systems which leverage an understanding of the underlying physics of operating in space, weight and power-constrained environments. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions also provides intelligence collection, processing, exploitation, and dissemination solutions, including systems designed to optimize decision-making in high rate, large volume, and complex data environments. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions provides cybersecurity technology and information management solutions, analytics and forensics, accreditation and testing services, and products that protect data, applications, and modern information technology infrastructures from advanced and persistent threats as well as mission support in the geospatial, intelligence analysis, technical operations, and linguistics domains. Major customers of Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions include national and military intelligence agencies, and other federal, civilian and commercial customers in the national security complex. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions represented 33%, 34% and 32% of total revenues for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other includes the operations of our internal real estate management subsidiary, various corporate activities, certain corporate expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. Government customers and certain other revenue and expense items excluded from a reportable segments performance. For additional information regarding our reportable segments, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II and Note 15 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Acquisitions The acquisition of businesses is part of our growth strategy to provide new or enhance existing capabilities and offerings to customers and to establish new or enhance existing relationships with customers. During the last five fiscal years, we have completed 14 acquisitions, most notably: In fiscal 2013, we acquired maxIT Healthcare Holdings, Inc., a provider of clinical, business and information technology services primarily to commercial hospital groups and other medical delivery organizations. This acquisition by our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment expanded our commercial consulting practice in electronic health record (EHR) implementation and optimization and strengthened our capabilities to provide these services to our federal healthcare customers as those customers migrate to commercial off-the-shelf EHR applications. In fiscal 2012, we acquired Vitalize Consulting Solutions, Inc., a provider of clinical, business and information technology services for healthcare enterprises. This acquisition by our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment expanded our capabilities in both federal and commercial markets to help customers better address EHR implementation and optimization demand. In fiscal 2011, we acquired Cloudshield Technologies, Inc., a provider of cybersecurity and management services solutions. This acquisition by our Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions segment enhanced our cybersecurity offerings and positioned us to bring to market deep packet inspection solutions for high speed networks, enabling us to better meet emerging customer requirements. We also acquired Reveal Imaging Technologies, Inc., a provider of threat detection products and services. This acquisition by our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment enhanced our homeland security solutions portfolio by adding U.S. Transportation Security Administration certified explosive detection systems for checked baggage screening to our passenger and cargo inspections systems product offerings. In fiscal 2010, we acquired R.W. Beck Group, Inc., a provider of business, engineering, energy and infrastructure consulting services. This acquisition by our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment both enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings in the areas of energy and infrastructure consulting services and provided new capabilities and offerings in disaster preparedness and recovery services. We also acquired Science, Engineering and Technology Associates Corporation, a provider of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance information technologies. This acquisition by our Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions segment enhanced our service offerings and capabilities by adding information technologies that detect human behaviors to identify human-borne suicide bombers. In fiscal 2009, we acquired SM Consulting, Inc., a provider of language translation, interpretation and training, and other consulting services to federal, state and local governments and commercial customers. While this acquisition by our Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions segment enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings, it also expanded our relationships with DoD customers in adjacent markets for these services. We also acquired Icon Systems, Inc., a provider of laser-based systems and products for military training and testing. This acquisition by our Defense Solutions segment enhanced our wireless live training offerings. SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 3 Table of Contents PART I Divestitures From time to time, we divest non-strategic components of our business. During the last five fiscal years, our most notable divestitures included: In fiscal 2013, we completed the sale of certain components of our business, which were historically included in our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment, primarily focused on providing operational test and evaluation services to U.S. Government customers. In fiscal 2012, we completed the sale of certain components of our business which were historically included in our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment, primarily focused on providing information technology services to international oil and gas companies. Key Customers Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States. In each of fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, over 85% of our total revenues were attributable to prime contracts with the U.S. Government or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. We generated more than 10% of our total revenues during each of the last three fiscal years from each of the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy. Each of these customers has a number of subsidiary agencies which have separate budgets and procurement functions. Our contracts may be with the highest level of these agencies or with the subsidiary agencies of these customers. The percentage of total revenues attributable to the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy for each of the last three fiscal years was as follows: Year Ended January 31 2013 2012 2011 U.S. Army 28 % 26 % 23 % U.S. Navy 13 13 13 Contract Procurement Our business is heavily regulated and we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other contracts. The U.S. Government procurement environment has evolved due to statutory and regulatory procurement reform initiatives. Today, U.S. Government customers employ several contracting methods to purchase services and products. Budgetary pressures and reforms in the procurement process have caused many U.S. Government customers to increasingly purchase services and products using contracting methods that give them the ability to select multiple contract winners or pre-qualify certain contractors to provide services or products on established general terms and conditions rather than through single award contracts. The predominant contracting methods through which U.S. Government agencies procure services and products include the following: Single Award Contracts. U.S. Government agencies may procure services and products through single award contracts which specify the scope of services or products purchased and identify the contractor that will provide the specified services or products. When an agency has a requirement, the agency will issue a solicitation or request for proposal to which interested contractors can submit a proposal. The process of issuing solicitations or request for proposals and evaluating contractor bids requires the agency to maintain a large, professional procurement staff and the bidding and selection process can take a year or more to complete. For the contractor, this method of contracting may provide greater certainty of the timing and amounts to be received at the time of contract award because it generally results in the customer contracting for a specific scope of services or products from the single successful awardee. Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contracts. The U.S. Government uses IDIQ contracts to obtain commitments from contractors to provide certain services or products on pre-established terms and conditions. The U.S. Government then issues task orders under the IDIQ contracts to purchase the specific services or products it needs. IDIQ contracts are awarded to one or more contractors following a competitive procurement process. Under a single-award IDIQ contract, all task orders under that contract are awarded to one pre-selected contractor. Under a multiple-award IDIQ contract, task orders can be awarded to any of the pre-selected contractors, which can result in further limited competition for the award of task orders. Multiple-award IDIQ contracts that are open for any government agency to use for procurement are commonly referred to as government-wide acquisition contracts. IDIQ contracts often have multi-year terms and unfunded ceiling amounts, therefore enabling, but not committing, the U.S. Government to purchase substantial amounts of services or products from one or more contractors. At the time an IDIQ contract is awarded (prior to the award of any task orders), a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract, and in the case of a multiple-award IDIQ, the contractor from which such purchases may be made. 4 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Schedule Contracts. The GSA maintains listings of approved suppliers of services and products with agreed-upon prices for use throughout the U.S. Government. In order for a company to provide services under a GSA Schedule contract, a company must be pre-qualified and awarded a contract by the GSA. When an agency uses a GSA Schedule contract to meet its requirements, the agency, or the GSA on behalf of the agency, conducts the procurement. The user agency, or the GSA on its behalf, evaluates the user agencys requirements and initiates a competition limited to GSA Schedule qualified contractors. GSA Schedule contracts are designed to provide the user agency with reduced procurement time and lower procurement costs. Similar to IDIQ contracts, at the time a GSA Schedule contract is awarded, a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract. We often team with other parties, including our competitors, to submit bids for large U.S Government procurements or other opportunities where we believe that the combination of services and products that we can provide as a team will help us win and perform the contract. Our relationships with our teammates, including whether we serve as the prime contractor or as a subcontractor, vary with each contract opportunity and typically depend on the program, contract or customer requirements, as well as the relative size, qualifications, capabilities, customer relationships and experience of our company and our teammates. Contracting with the U.S. Government also subjects us to substantial regulation and unique risks, including the U.S. Governments ability to cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed where the U.S. Government issues a termination for convenience. These regulations and risks are described in more detail below under BusinessRegulation and Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Contract Types Generally, the type of contract for our services and products is determined by or negotiated with the U.S. Government and may depend on certain factors, including the type and complexity of the work to be performed, degree and timing of the responsibility to be assumed by the contractor for the costs of performance, the extent of price competition and the amount and nature of the profit incentive offered to the contractor for achieving or exceeding specified standards or goals. We generate revenues under several types of contracts, including the following: Cost-reimbursement contracts provide for reimbursement of our direct contract costs and allocable indirect costs, plus a fee. This type of contract is generally used when uncertainties involved in contract performance do not permit costs to be estimated with sufficient accuracy to use a fixed-price contract. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk, but generally require us to use our best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within a specified time and amount of costs. Time-and-materials (T&M) contracts typically provide for negotiated fixed hourly rates for specified categories of direct labor plus reimbursement of other direct costs. This type of contract is generally used when there is uncertainty of the extent or duration of the work to be performed by the contractor at the time of contract award or it is not possible to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of confidence. On T&M contracts, we assume the risk of providing appropriately qualified staff to perform these contracts at the hourly rates set forth in the contracts over the period of performance of the contracts. Fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) contracts are substantially similar to T&M contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated period of time on work that can be stated only in general terms. This type of contract is generally used when the contractor is required to perform an investigation or study in a specific research and development area and to provide a report showing the results achieved based on the level of effort. Payment is based on the effort expended rather than the results achieved. Firm-fixed-price (FFP) contracts provide for a fixed price for specified products, systems and/or services. This type of contract is generally used when the government acquires products and services on the basis of reasonably definitive specifications and which have a determinable fair and reasonable price. These contracts offer us potential increased profits if we can complete the work at lower costs than planned. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost reimbursement and T&M contracts generally have lower profitability than FFP contracts. For the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, see Key Performance MeasuresContract Types in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 5 Table of Contents PART I Backlog Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. Our backlog consists of funded backlog and negotiated unfunded backlog, each of which are described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. In addition, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. For additional discussion and analysis of backlog, see Key Performance MeasuresBookings and Backlog in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Competition Competition for contracts is intense and we often compete against a large number of established multinational corporations which may have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger technical staffs than we do. We also compete against smaller, more specialized companies that concentrate their resources on particular areas, as well as the U.S. Governments own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. As a result of the diverse requirements of the U.S. Government and our commercial customers, we frequently collaborate with other companies to compete for large contracts, and bid against these same companies in other situations. We believe that our principal competitors currently include the following companies: the engineering and technical services divisions of large defense contractors which provide U.S. Government IT services in addition to other hardware systems and products, including companies such as The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems plc, L-3 Communications Corporation and Raytheon Company; contractors focused principally on technical services, including U.S. Government IT services, such as Battelle Memorial Institute, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., Engility Holdings, Inc., CACI International Inc, ManTech International Corporation, Serco Group plc and SRA International, Inc.; diversified commercial and U.S. Government IT providers, such as Accenture plc, Computer Sciences Corporation, HP Enterprise Services, International Business Machines Corporation and Unisys Corporation; contractors who provide engineering, consulting, design and construction services, such as Jacobs Engineering Group, URS Corporation, KBR, Inc. and CH2M Hill Companies Ltd.; and contractors focused on supplying homeland security product solutions, including American Science and Engineering, Inc., OSI Systems, Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, General Electric Company and Smiths Group plc and contractors providing supply chain management and other logistics services, including Agility Logistics Corp. We compete on various factors, including our technical expertise and qualified professional and/or security-cleared personnel, our ability to deliver innovative cost-effective solutions in a timely manner, successful program execution, our reputation and standing with customers, pricing and the size and geographic presence of our company. The U.S. Government has indicated that it intends to increase industry competition for future procurement of products and services, which has led to fewer sole source awards and more emphasis on cost competitiveness and affordability. In addition, procurement initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus priorities and enhance best practices could result in fewer new opportunities for our industry as a whole, which would intensify competition within the industry as companies compete for a more limited set of new programs. Patents and Proprietary Information Our technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, although we do selectively seek patent protection. We claim a proprietary interest in certain of our products, software programs, methodologies and know-how. This proprietary information is protected by copyrights, trade secrets, licenses, contracts and other means. We selectively pursue opportunities to license or transfer our technologies to third parties. In connection with the performance of services, the U.S. Government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. Generally, the U.S. Government may disclose or license such information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors. In the case of some subcontracts that we perform, the prime contractor may also have certain rights to the programs and products that we develop under the subcontract. 6 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I Research and Development We conduct research and development activities under customer-funded contracts and with company-funded internal research and development (IR&D) funds. IR&D efforts consist of projects involving basic research, applied research, development, and systems and other concept formulation studies. IR&D expenses are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to U.S. Government contracts. In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, our company-funded IR&D expense was $64 million, $92 million and $55 million, respectively. We charge expenses for research and development activities performed under customer contracts directly to cost of revenues for those contracts. Seasonality The U.S. Governments fiscal year ends on September 30 of each year. It is not uncommon for U.S. Government agencies to award extra tasks or complete other contract actions in the timeframe leading up to the end of its fiscal year in order to avoid the loss of unexpended fiscal year funds, which may favorably impact our third fiscal quarter ending October 31. In addition, as a result of the cyclical nature of the U.S. Government budget process and a greater number of holidays in our fourth fiscal quarter ending January 31, as compared to our third fiscal quarter ending October 31, we typically experience sequentially higher revenues in our third fiscal quarter and lower revenues in our fourth fiscal quarter. For selected quarterly financial data, see Note 19 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Regulation We are heavily regulated in most of the fields in which we operate. We provide services and products to numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including to the DoD, the intelligence community and DHS. When working with these and other U.S. Government agencies and entities, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of contracts. U.S. Government contracts generally are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which sets forth policies, procedures and requirements for the acquisition of goods and services by the U.S. Government, agency-specific regulations that implement or supplement FAR, such as the DoDs Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) and other applicable laws and regulations. These regulations impose a broad range of requirements, many of which are unique to government contracting, including various procurement, import and export, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, and audit requirements. Among other things, these laws and regulations: require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under various cost-based U.S. Government contracts; require reviews by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) and other U.S. Government agencies of compliance with government standards for a contractors business systems; restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data; and require us not to compete for work if an organizational conflict of interest, as defined by these laws and regulations, related to such work exists and/or cannot be appropriately mitigated. The U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations at any time. In order to help ensure compliance with these complex laws and regulations, all of our employees are required to complete ethics training and other compliance training relevant to their position. Some of our operations and service offerings involve access to and use by us of personally identifiable information and/or protected health information, which activities are regulated by extensive federal and state privacy and data security laws requiring organizations to provide certain privacy protections and security safeguards for such information. Internationally, we are subject to special U.S. Government laws and regulations, local government laws and regulations and procurement policies and practices (including laws and regulations relating to bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings) and varying currency, political and economic risks. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, our operations may become subject to future laws and regulations, including those related to climate change and environmental sustainability. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil, SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 7 Table of Contents PART I criminal, regulatory, administrative or contractual sanctions, including fines, penalties or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government, or could cause us to incur costs to change, upgrade, remediate and/or close some of our operations or properties. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of businesses and real property liable for hazardous substance releases, even if they did not know of and were not responsible for the releases. Our services and operations involve the assessment or remediation of environmental hazards, as well as using, handling or disposing of hazardous substances. Environmental laws may impose liability on any person who disposes, transports, or arranges for the disposal or transportation of hazardous substances to any site. In addition, we may face liability for personal injury, property damage and natural resource damages relating to hazardous substance releases for which we are otherwise liable or relating to exposure to or the mishandling of hazardous substances in connection with our current and former operations or services, including our current and prior ownership of properties. Although we do not currently anticipate that the costs of complying with, or the liabilities associated with, environmental laws will materially and adversely affect us, we cannot ensure that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future. Employees and Consultants As of January 31, 2013, we employed approximately 40,000 full and part-time employees. We also utilize consultants to provide specialized technical and other services on specific projects. The highly technical and complex services and products that we provide are dependent upon the availability of professional, administrative and technical personnel having high levels of training and skills and, in many cases, security clearances. Due to the increased competition for qualified personnel, it has become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which has affected and may to continue to affect our growth. We intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, develop and retain qualified employees. Company Website and Information Our website can be accessed at www.saic.com . The website contains information about our company and operations. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, copies of each of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, can be viewed and downloaded free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into and is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may request a copy of the materials identified in the preceding paragraph, at no cost, by writing or telephoning us at our corporate headquarters at the following: SAIC, Inc. 1710 SAIC Drive McLean, VA 22102 Attention: Corporate Secretary Telephone: (703) 676-4300 Item 1A. Risk Factors In your evaluation of our company and business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed and the price of our stock could decline. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as our ability to collect receivables, overall U.S. and global economic and industry conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, climate change or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially harm our business, financial condition or operating results and result in a decline in the price of our stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend on government agencies as our primary customer and if our reputation or relationships with these agencies were harmed, our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected. We generated over 85% of our total revenues during each of the last three fiscal years from contracts with the U.S. Government (including all branches of the U.S. military), either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. We generated more than 10% of our total revenues during each of the last three fiscal years from each of the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy. We expect to continue to derive most of our revenues from work 8 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I performed under U.S. Government contracts. Our reputation and relationship with the U.S. Government, and in particular with the agencies of the DoD and the U.S. intelligence community, are key factors in maintaining and growing our revenues. Negative press reports or publicity, which could pertain to employee or subcontractor misconduct, conflicts of interest, poor contract performance, deficiencies in services, reports, products or other deliverables, information security breaches or other aspects of our business, regardless of accuracy, could harm our reputation, particularly with these agencies. If our reputation is negatively affected, or if we are suspended or debarred from contracting with government agencies for any reason, the amount of business with government and other customers would decrease and our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected. A decline in the U.S. Government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities or delays in contract awards may significantly and adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. Revenues under contracts with the DoD, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor to other contractors, represented approximately 70% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013. Levels of DoD spending are difficult to predict and subject to significant risk. Our operating results could be adversely affected by spending caps or changes in the budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government or the DoD, as well as delays in program starts or the award of contracts or task orders under contracts. Current U.S. Government spending levels for defense-related programs may not be sustained and future spending and program authorizations may not increase or may decrease or shift to programs in areas in which we do not provide services or are less likely to be awarded contracts. Such changes in spending authorizations and budgetary priorities may occur as a result of the rapid growth of the federal budget deficit, increasing political pressure and legislation, including the Budget Control Act of 2011, designed to reduce overall levels of government spending, including through sequestration, shifts in spending priorities from defense-related programs as a result of competing demands for federal funds, the number and intensity of military conflicts or other factors. The Budget Control Act of 2011 enacted 10-year discretionary spending caps which are expected to generate over $1 trillion in savings for the U.S. Government, a substantial portion of which comes from DoD baseline spending reductions. In addition, the Budget Control Act of 2011 provides for additional automatic spending cuts (referred to as sequestration) totaling $1.2 trillion over nine years which are being implemented beginning in the current U.S. Government fiscal year ending September 30, 2013 (GFY13). These reduction targets will further reduce DoD and other federal agency budgets. Although the Office of Management and Budget has recently provided guidance to agencies on implementing sequestration cuts, there remains much uncertainty about how exactly sequestration cuts will be implemented and the impact those cuts will have on contractors supporting the government. In light of the current uncertainty, we are not able to predict the impact of budget cuts, including sequestration, on our company or our financial results. However, we expect that budgetary constraints and concerns related to the national debt will continue to place downward pressure on DoD spending levels and that implementation of the automatic spending cuts without change will reduce, delay or cancel funding for certain of our contracts particularly those with unobligated balancesand programs and could adversely impact our operations, financial results and growth prospects. The U.S. Government also conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities, which may shift DoD budgetary priorities, reduce overall U.S. Government spending or delay contract or task order awards for defense-related programs, including programs from which we expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenues. In addition, changes to the DoD acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. A significant decline in overall U.S. Government spending, including in the areas of national security, intelligence and homeland security, a significant shift in its spending priorities, the substantial reduction or elimination of particular defense-related programs or significant delays in contract or task order awards for large programs could adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. Because we depend on U.S. Government contracts, a delay in the completion of the U.S. Governments budget process could delay procurement of the products, services and solutions we provide and have an adverse effect on our future revenues. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to an annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation process. In years when the U.S. Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a continuing resolution, which allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of the products, services and solutions that we provide and may result in new initiatives being cancelled. We have from time to time experienced a decline in revenues in our fourth quarter ending January 31 and beyond as a result of this annual budget cycle, and we could experience similar declines in revenues from future delays in the budget process. Certain agencies of the U.S. Government do not have approved GFY13 spending bills and are operating under a continuing resolution through September 30, 2013. The continuing resolution contains standard restrictions, including no new program starts and no program increases beyond current service levels which could adversely impact our future revenues and growth prospects. In years when the U.S. Government fails to complete its budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution, SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 9 Table of Contents PART I a federal government shutdown may result. A federal government shutdown could in turn result in our incurrence of substantial labor or other costs without reimbursement under customer contracts, or the delay or cancellation of key programs, which could have a negative effect on our cash flows and adversely affect our future results. In addition, when supplemental appropriations are required to operate the U.S. Government or fund specific programs and passage of legislation needed to approve any supplemental appropriation bill is delayed, the overall funding environment for our business could be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with a variety of complex procurement rules and regulations could result in our being liable for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. Government contracts and suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Some significant statutes and regulations that affect us include: the FAR and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts; the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials; the Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; and the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts. The FAR and many of our U.S. Government contracts contain organizational conflict of interest clauses that may limit our ability to compete for or perform certain other contracts or other types of services for particular customers. Organizational conflicts of interest arise when we engage in activities that may make us unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the U.S. Government, impair our objectivity in performing contract work, or provide us with an unfair competitive advantage. A conflict of interest issue that precludes our competition for or performance on a significant program or contract could harm our prospects. The U.S. Government may adopt new contract rules and regulations or revise its procurement practices in a manner adverse to us at any time. Our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies, and recovery of costs, among other items. U.S. Government agencies may face restrictions or pressure regarding the type and amount of services that they may obtain from private contractors. Legislation, regulations and initiatives dealing with procurement reform, mitigation of potential conflicts of interest and environmental responsibility or sustainability, as well as any resulting shifts in the buying practices of U.S. Government agencies, such as increased usage of fixed price contracts, multiple award contracts and small business set-aside contracts, could have adverse effects on government contractors, including us. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or renew our existing contracts when those contracts are recompeted. Any new contracting requirements or procurement methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future revenues, profitability and prospects. Our business is subject to reviews, audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. Government, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects. U.S. Government agencies, including the DCAA, DCMA and others, routinely audit and review a contractors performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of the contractors compliance with government standards for its business systems, including: a contractors accounting system, earned value management system, estimating system, materials management and accounting system, property management system and purchasing system. Both contractors and the U.S. Government agencies conducting these audits and reviews have come under increased scrutiny. As a result, the current audits and reviews have become more rigorous and the standards to which we are held are being more strictly interpreted, increasing the likelihood of an audit or review resulting in an adverse outcome. During the course of its current audits, the DCAA is closely examining and questioning several of our long established and disclosed practices that it had previously audited and accepted, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate conclusion that will be reached. 10 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I A finding of significant control deficiencies in our system audits or other reviews can result in decremented billing rates to our U.S. Government customers until the control deficiencies are corrected and our remediations are accepted by DCMA. Government audits and reviews may conclude that our practices are not consistent with applicable laws and regulations and result in adjustments to contract costs and mandatory customer refunds. Such adjustments can be applied retroactively, which could result in significant customer refunds. Our receipt of adverse audit findings or the failure to obtain an approved determination of our various business systems from the responsible U.S. Government agency could significantly and adversely affect our business, including our ability to bid on new contracts and our competitive position in the bidding process. A determination of non-compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards could also result in the U.S. Government imposing penalties and sanctions against us, including withholding of payments, suspension of payments and increased government scrutiny that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. Government. Our indirect cost audits by the DCAA have not been completed for fiscal 2006 and subsequent fiscal years. Although we have recorded contract revenues subsequent to fiscal 2005 based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments and, if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected. Our business is subject to governmental review and investigation which could adversely affect our financial position, operating results and growth prospects. We are routinely subject to governmental investigations relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect to our role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside the United States. If a review or investigation identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies. We may suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, which would impair our ability to win new contract awards or receive contract renewals. Penalties and sanctions are not uncommon in our industry. If we incur a material penalty or administrative sanction or otherwise suffer harm to our reputation, our revenues, profitability, cash position and future prospects could be adversely affected. More generally, increases in scrutiny and investigations from government organizations, legislative bodies or agencies into business practices and into major programs supported by contractors may lead to increased legal costs and may harm our reputation, revenues, profitability and growth prospects. Misconduct of employees, subcontractors, agents and business partners could cause us to lose existing contracts or customers and adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts and customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation. Misconduct could include fraud or other improper activities such as falsifying time or other records and violations of laws, including the Anti-Kickback Act. Other examples could include the failure to comply with our policies and procedures or with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the use and safeguarding of classified or other protected information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health or safety matters, bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, lobbying or similar activities, and any other applicable laws or regulations. Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us, loss of current and future contracts and serious harm to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct, and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could damage our reputation and subject us to fines and penalties, restitution or other damages, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business, reputation and our future results. Due to the competitive process to obtain contracts and the likelihood of bid protests, we may be unable to achieve or sustain revenue growth and profitability. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. The U.S. Government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including IDIQ, GSA Schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. For example, during fiscal 2013, we were not awarded the successor contract to the DISN Global Solutions (DGS) program with the Defense Information Systems Agency. In fiscal 2013, we recognized approximately $425 million in revenue on this program. Revenues from the DSG program are expected to be approximately $40 million over the first half of fiscal 2014 as the activity transitions to the successor contractor. The competitive bidding process involves substantial costs and a number of risks, including significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, or that may be awarded but for which we do not receive meaningful SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 11 Table of Contents PART I task orders, and to the risk of inaccurately estimating the resources and costs that will be required to fulfill any contract we win. Following contract award, we may encounter significant expense, delay, contract modifications or even contract loss as a result of our competitors protesting the award of contracts to us in competitive bidding. Any resulting loss or delay of start up and funding of work under protested contract awards may adversely affect our revenues and/or profitability. In addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained post-award efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. As a result, we may not be able to obtain these task orders or recognize revenues under these multi-award contracts. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment would adversely affect our revenues and/or profitability. The U.S. Government may terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, we may be unable to achieve or sustain revenue growth and may suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years and include one or more base years and one or more option years. These programs are normally funded on an annual basis. Under our contracts, the U.S. Government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at its convenience. Any decisions by the U.S. Government not to exercise contract options or to terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our major programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenues, revenue growth and profitability. We have experienced and continue to experience periodic performance issues under certain of our contracts. Some of our contracts involve the development of complex systems and products to achieve challenging customer goals in a competitive procurement environment. As a result, we sometimes experience technological or other performance difficulties, which have in the past and may in the future result in delays, cost overruns and failures in our performance of these contracts. If a government customer terminates a contract for default, we may be exposed to liability, including for excess costs incurred by the customer in procuring undelivered services and products from another source. Depending on the nature and value of the contract, a performance issue or termination for default could cause our actual results to differ from those anticipated and could harm our reputation. We face aggressive competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenues and growth prospects. Our business is highly competitive and we compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger technical staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized companies that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. Additionally, we compete with the U.S. Governments own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop services and products that address these changing needs and to provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and products. To remain competitive, we must consistently provide superior service, technology and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or technologies or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish teaming or other relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customers needs. Accordingly, we anticipate that larger or new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge which may adversely affect our ability to compete. A failure to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, would adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy and may disrupt our operations. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for our customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of our employees. Our continued success depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly trained and skilled engineering, technical and professional personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and competitors aggressively recruit key employees. In addition, many U.S. Government programs require contractors to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and personnel with security clearances are in great demand. Particularly in highly specialized areas, it has become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which may affect our growth. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract, effectively train and retain these employees. Any failure to do so could impair our ability to perform our contractual obligations efficiently and timely meet our customers needs and win new business, which could adversely affect our future results. Additionally, we are concurrently completing the relocation of our corporate functions and the planned separation transaction, which has resulted in higher than typical employee turnover and will result in the transfer of 12 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I personnel to the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services business. While we are hiring and training replacement personnel, there is little redundancy or overlap of responsibilities in our corporate functions and loss of key personnel in critical functions could lead to lack of business continuity or disruptions in our operations, financial reporting or control processes. In addition to attracting and retaining qualified engineering, technical and professional personnel, we believe that our success will also depend on the continued employment of a highly qualified and experienced senior management team and its ability to retain existing business and generate new business. Our senior management team is important to our business because personal reputations and individual business relationships are a critical element of retaining and obtaining customer contracts in our industry, particularly with agencies performing classified operations. Our inability to retain appropriately qualified and experienced senior executives could cause us to lose customers or new business opportunities. We may not realize as revenues the full amounts reflected in our backlog, which could adversely affect our expected future revenues and growth prospects. As of January 31, 2013 our total backlog was $17.9 billion including $5.4 billion in funded backlog. Due to the U.S. Governments ability to not exercise contract options or to terminate, modify or curtail our programs or contracts and the rights of our non-U.S. Government customers to cancel contracts and purchase orders in certain circumstances, we may realize less than expected or in some cases never realize revenues from some of the contracts that are included in our backlog. Our unfunded backlog, in particular, contains managements estimate of amounts expected to be realized on unfunded contract work that may never be realized as revenues. If we fail to realize as revenues amounts included in our backlog, our future revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our earnings and profitability may vary based on the mix of our contracts and may be adversely affected by our failure to accurately estimate and manage costs, time and resources. We generate revenues under various types of contracts, which include cost reimbursement, T&M, FP-LOE and FFP contracts. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost reimbursement and T&M contracts are generally less profitable than FFP contracts. Our operating results in any period may also be affected, positively or negatively, by customers variable purchasing patterns of our more profitable proprietary products. Our profitability is adversely affected when we incur contract costs that we cannot bill to our customers. To varying degrees, each of our contract types involves some risk that we could underestimate the costs and resources necessary to fulfill the contract. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns. Revenues from FFP contracts represented approximately 29% of our total revenues for fiscal 2013. When making proposals on these types of contracts, we rely heavily on our estimates of costs and timing to complete the associated projects, as well as assumptions regarding technical issues. In each case, our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during performance could result, and in some instances has resulted, in reduced profits or in losses. More generally, any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in the performance of our contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, such as performance failures of our subcontractors, natural disasters or other force majeure events, could make our contracts less profitable than expected or unprofitable. We use estimates in recognizing revenues and if we make changes to estimates used in recognizing revenues, our profitability may be adversely affected. Revenues from our contracts are primarily recognized using the percentage-of-completion method or on the basis of partial performance towards completion. These methodologies require estimates of total costs at completion, fees earned on the contract, or both. This estimation process, particularly due to the technical nature of the services performed and the long-term nature of certain contracts, is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. Changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect our future financial results. Our failure to comply with the terms of our deferred prosecution agreement or our administrative agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. In connection with the resolution of certain investigations related to our CityTime contract, we entered into a three year deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York. We also entered into a five year administrative agreement with the Army on behalf of the U.S. Government in order to confirm our continuing SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 13 Table of Contents PART I eligibility to enter into and perform contracts with the U.S. Government. Our compliance with the terms and conditions of both the deferred prosecution agreement and the administrative agreement, including the appointment of an independent monitor, will require significant resources and management involvement. If we fail to comply with the deferred prosecution agreement, including its ongoing legal and regulatory compliance obligations, the U.S. Attorneys Office may extend the term of the deferred prosecution agreement or independent monitor or we could face criminal prosecution, additional damages and penalties. If we fail to comply with the administrative agreement, the Army may extend the term of the administrative agreement or initiate suspension or debarment proceedings against us. The CityTime investigations received adverse publicity and we are required to disclose information concerning the deferred prosecution agreement in certain proposals for contracts, which may make it more difficult to compete effectively and may adversely affect our revenues and growth prospects. In addition, we continue to be subject to risks in connection with government reviews and investigations and other legal disputes unrelated to the CityTime matter, which may subject us to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies. Legal disputes could require us to pay potentially large damage awards and could be costly to defend, which would adversely affect our cash balances and profitability, and could damage our reputation. We are subject to a number of lawsuits and claims described in Legal Proceedings in Part 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as may be updated in our future filings with the SEC, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We are also subject to, and may become a party to, a variety of other litigation or claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation could be costly to defend, and even if we are successful or if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. Litigation and other claims, including those described in Legal Proceeding s, are subject to inherent uncertainties and managements view of these matters may change in the future. Our business and operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements and any violation of these requirements could harm our business. We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign legal requirements on matters as diverse as data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, immigration, taxation, anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation and anti-competition. Compliance with diverse and changing legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. For example, the SECs adoption of a complicated new rule requiring certain disclosures about conflict minerals in certain products increases our compliance costs, requires management attention and could reduce our profitability and expose us to additional risk. We are also focused on expanding our business in certain identified growth areas, such as health information technology, energy and environment, which are highly regulated and may expose us to increased compliance risk. Violations of one or more of these diverse legal requirements in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines and other damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations or contractual obligations related to regulatory compliance in connection with the performance of customer contracts could also result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to compete for certain work and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Our business and financial results could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats. As a U.S. Government contractor and a provider of information technology services operating in multiple regulated industries and geographies, we handle sensitive information. Therefore, we are continuously exposed to cyber attacks and other security threats, including physical break-ins. Any electronic or physical break-in or other security breach or compromise may jeopardize security of information stored or transmitted through our information technology systems and networks. This could lead to disruptions in mission-critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to protect against, detect and mitigate these threats, we face advanced and persistent attacks on our information systems and attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others, and may be perpetrated by well funded organized crime or state sponsored efforts. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their occurrence or recurrence. We continue to invest in and improve our threat protection, detection and mitigation policies, procedures and controls. In addition, we work with other companies in the industry and government participants on increased awareness and enhanced protections against cybersecurity threats. However, because of the evolving nature and sophistication of these security threats, which can be difficult to detect, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and controls have or will detect or prevent any of these threats and we cannot predict the full impact of any such past or future incident. We may experience similar security threats to the information 14 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I technology systems that we develop, install or maintain under customer contracts. Although we work cooperatively with our customers and other business partners to seek to minimize the impacts of cyber and other security threats, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities. Any remedial costs or other liabilities related to cyber or other security threats may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these security threats could expose us to claims, contract terminations and damages and could adversely affect our reputation, ability to work on sensitive U.S. Government contracts, business operations and financial results. Internal system or service failures could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services and products to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Any system or service disruptions, including those caused by ongoing projects to improve our information technology systems and the delivery of services, as well as projects to separate our information technology infrastructure in connection with the planned separation transaction, whether through our shared services organization or outsourced services, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business including, among other things, an adverse effect on our ability to bill our customers for work performed on our contracts, collect the amounts that have been billed and produce accurate financial statements in a timely manner. We are also subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks or other events, which could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected. Customer systems failures could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Many of the systems and networks that we develop, install and maintain for our customers involve managing and protecting personal information and information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. While we have programs designed to comply with relevant privacy and security laws and restrictions, if a system or network that we develop, install or maintain were to fail or experience a security breach or service interruption, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats or other events, we may experience loss of revenue, remediation costs or face claims for damages or contract termination. Any such event could cause serious harm to our reputation and prevent us from having access to or being eligible for further work on such systems and networks. Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all of the damages that we may incur and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected. We have contracts with the U.S. Government that are classified, which may limit investor insight into portions of our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from programs with the U.S. Government that are subject to security restrictions (classified programs), which preclude the dissemination of information that is classified for national security purposes. We are limited in our ability to provide information about these classified programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors have less insight into our classified programs than our other businesses and therefore less ability to fully evaluate the risks related to our classified business. We have made and continue to make acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. We selectively pursue strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. These transactions require significant investment of time and resources and may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities. Even if successful, these transactions could reduce earnings for a number of reasons, including the amortization of intangible assets, impairment charges, acquired operations that are not yet profitable or the payment of additional consideration under earn-out arrangements if an acquisition performs better than expected. Acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many other risks that could adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial results, including: we may not be able to identify, compete effectively for or complete suitable acquisitions and investments at prices we consider attractive; we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions and investments on our business and we may not realize anticipated synergies or acquisitions may not result in improved operating performance; we may encounter performance problems with acquired technologies, capabilities and products, particularly with respect to those that are still in development when acquired; SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 15 Table of Contents PART I we may have trouble retaining key employees and customers of an acquired business or otherwise integrating such businesses, such as incompatible accounting, information management, or other control systems, which could result in unforeseen difficulties; we may assume material liabilities that were not identified as part of our due diligence or for which we are unable to receive a purchase price adjustment or reimbursement through indemnification; we may assume legal or regulatory risks, particularly with respect to smaller businesses that have immature business processes and compliance programs; acquired entities or joint ventures may not operate profitably, which could adversely affect our operating income or operating margins and we may be unable to recover investments in any such acquisitions; acquisitions, investments and joint ventures may require us to spend a significant amount of cash or to issue capital stock, resulting in dilution of ownership; and we may not be able to effectively influence the operations of our joint ventures or we may be exposed to certain liabilities if our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations. If our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures fail, perform poorly or their value is otherwise impaired for any reason, including contractions in credit markets and global economic conditions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, we periodically divest businesses, including businesses that are no longer a part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business, distract management from other responsibilities and may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification, guarantee or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction, which would adversely affect our financial results. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 40% of our total assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. Intangible assets, including goodwill, are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of intangible assets may not be recoverable could include a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of. We face continued uncertainty in our business environment due to the substantial fiscal and economic challenges facing the U.S. Government, such as the manner in which budget cuts are implemented, including sequestration, and issues related to the nations debt ceiling. Any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would have a negative impact on our profitability and financial results. We depend on our teaming arrangements and relationships with other contractors and subcontractors. If we are not able to maintain these relationships, or if these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or the customer, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We rely on our teaming relationships with other prime contractors and subcontractors in order to submit bids for large procurements or other opportunities where we believe the combination of services and products provided by us and the other companies will help us to win and perform the contract. Our future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their contract relationships with us, or if the U.S. Government terminates or reduces these other contractors programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Companies that do not have access to U.S. Government contracts may perform services as our subcontractor and that exposure could enhance such companies prospect of securing a future position as a prime U.S. Government contractor which could increase competition for future contracts and impair our ability to perform on contracts. We may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of a subcontractors personnel or the subcontractors failure to comply with applicable law. Current uncertain economic conditions heighten the risk of financial stress of our subcontractors, which could adversely impact their ability to meet their contractual requirements to us. If any of our subcontractors fail to timely meet their contractual obligations or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor may be jeopardized. Significant losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in our termination for default. A termination for default could eliminate a revenue source, expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders, especially if the customer is an agency of the U.S. Government. 16 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I We provide professional engineering and other services, including engineering-procurement-construction, design build, project delivery and commissioning, in connection with complex projects that involve significant risks and may require long-term capital. In connection with certain projects, we may commit to a specific completion date or performance standards, which may expose us to significant additional costs and reputational damage if we miss the completion date or fail to achieve the performance standards, including agreed upon financial damages. Project performance can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including delays from governmental inaction, public opposition, inability to obtain financing, weather, unavailability of materials, changes in project scope, accidents, environmental hazards, labor disruptions and other factors. If we assume risks related to these events, such risks may not be insurable or may only be insurable on unacceptable terms. If these events occur, the total project costs could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate overall profitability and have an adverse effect on our financial position and cash flows. In some projects, we may commit substantial resources before receiving payments, either because of project cash flow timing or because we agree to delay payment for services until after project completion. We may also provide interim or other financing before the project is completed or otherwise secures capital from other sources. If a project is not successful, if a customer is unable to repay us, or if any source of financing does not provide its anticipated capital, we could incur losses, including amounts relating to work performed prior to execution of a customer contract or in connection with financing we provided, which would have an adverse effect on our financial position and cash flows. Tight credit or equity markets could increase this risk, as customers or other financing sources may be unable to secure funds. Our services and operations sometimes involve using, handling or disposing of hazardous substances, which could expose us to potentially significant liabilities. Some of our services and operations involve the assessment or remediation of environmental hazards, as well as the use, handling or disposal of hazardous substances. These activities and our operations generally subject us to extensive foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, which, among other things, require us to incur costs to comply with these regulations and could impose liability on us for handling or disposing of hazardous substances. Furthermore, failure to comply with these environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations could result in civil, criminal, regulatory, administrative or contractual sanctions, including fines, penalties or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. Our current and previous ownership and operation of real property also subjects us to environmental protection laws, some of which hold current or previous owners or operators of businesses and real property liable for hazardous substance releases, even if they did not know of and were not responsible for the releases. If we have any violations of, or incur liabilities pursuant to, these laws or regulations, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We could incur significant liabilities and suffer negative publicity if our inspection or detection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. We design, develop, manufacture, sell, service and maintain various inspection systems that are designed to assist in the detection of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. In some instances, we also train operators of such systems. Many of these systems utilize software algorithms that are probabilistic in nature and subject to significant technical limitations. Many of these systems are also dependent on the performance of their operators. There are many factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could result in the failure of our products to help detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. Some of these factors could include operator error, inherent limitations in our systems, and misuse or malfunction of our systems. The failure of our systems to help detect the presence of any of these dangerous materials could lead to injury, death and extensive property damage and may lead to product liability, professional liability, or other claims against us. Further, if our systems fail to, or are perceived to have failed to help detect a threat, the negative publicity from such incident could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims or losses. We maintain insurance coverage with third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. However, not every risk or liability is or can be protected by insurance, and, for those risks we insure, the limits of coverage we purchase or that are reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. If any of our third-party insurers fail, cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from significant product and other liability claims or losses. Moreover, there is a risk that commercially available liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims or losses exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business, financial position, operating results and SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 17 Table of Contents PART I prospects may be harmed. Regardless of the adequacy of our liability insurance coverages, any significant claim may have an adverse effect on our industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for our products and services and reduced revenues. We face risks associated with our international business. Our international business operations may be subject to additional and different risks than our U.S. business. Failure to comply with U.S. Government laws and regulations applicable to international business, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations, could have an adverse impact on our business with the U.S. Government and could expose us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Additionally, these risks relating to international operations may expose us to potentially significant contract losses. In some countries, there is an increased chance for economic, legal or political changes that may adversely affect the performance of our services, sale of our products or repatriation of our profits. International transactions can also involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange rate variability, imposition of tariffs or additional taxes, restrictive trade policies and differing legal systems. We provide services and products in support of U.S. Government customers in countries with governments that may be or may become unstable, which increases the risk of an incident resulting in injury or loss of life, or damage or destruction of property, or inability to meet our contractual obligations. Although our international operations have historically generated a small proportion of our revenues, we do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have on our business in the future and any of these factors could adversely affect our business. Our financial results may be adversely affected by our underfunded United Kingdom pension plan. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by the expense amount that we record for a pension plan that we sponsor in the United Kingdom for plan participants that primarily performed services on an expired customer contract. While benefits are no longer accruing under this plan, we have continuing defined benefit pension obligations with respect to certain plan participants. We recognize all net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plans projected benefit obligation (which is referred to as the corridor) annually in continuing operations in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is remeasured, which may cause our pension expense in our fourth quarter to be volatile and our financial results to fluctuate, potentially adversely. Our pension plan expense and the amount and timing of required contributions may also be affected by economic factors, such as the level of return on pension plan assets and changes in interest rates, legislation and other government regulatory changes. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary information and intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property in cases where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. We may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. In addition, in connection with the performance of services, the U.S. Government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under government-funded contracts and subcontracts, which means that U.S. Government may disclose or license our information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors. In the course of conducting our business, we may inadvertently infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in claims against us or our customers. Our contracts generally indemnify our customers for third-party claims for intellectual property infringement by the services and products we provide. The expense of defending these claims may adversely affect our financial results. Business disruptions caused by natural disasters and other crises could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. We have significant operations located in regions of the United States that may be exposed to damaging storms and other natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, flooding, wildfires or earthquakes. Our business could also be disrupted by pandemics and other national or international crises. Although preventative measures may help mitigate the damage from such occurrences, the damage and disruption to our business resulting from any of these events may be 18 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I significant. If our insurance and other risk mitigation mechanisms are not sufficient to recover all costs, including loss of revenues from sales to customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Performance failures and disruptions by our subcontractors due to these types of events may also adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on a prime contract, which could reduce our profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or the customer and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this Risk Factors section and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to the Proposed Separation Transaction We are pursuing a plan to spin-off our technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services business into a new, independent publicly traded company. We are incurring significant costs in connection with this transaction, which also requires significant time and attention of our management and we may not be able to complete the transaction or, if the transaction is completed, realize the anticipated benefits. In August 2012, we announced a plan to separate into two independent public companies through a spin-off of our technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services business. Completion of the transaction will be contingent upon the approval of our board of directors, our receipt of an opinion from tax counsel and a ruling from the IRS as to the tax-free nature of the transaction, the effectiveness of a Registration Statement on Form 10 and certain other conditions. Additionally, our ability to complete the spin-off in a timely manner, if at all, could be affected by several factors, including but not limited to: our ability to obtain any necessary financing for the newly-created entity on acceptable terms; our ability to obtain any necessary consents or approvals; changes in governmental regulations; changes in the underlying businesses, contracts, or customers; and political and economic conditions at the time of the transaction. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to complete the spin-off within the expected time frame or at all. Even if the transaction is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the spin-off, including additional revenues as a result of removing certain organizational conflicts of interest and a reduced cost structure. Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with this transaction, which has and will affect our profitability and operating results through completion of the transaction. Executing the proposed spin-off also requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business and executing our other strategic initiatives. The proposed spin-off of our technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services business could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. Among the conditions to completing the spin-off will be our receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS and an opinion of tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. However, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request or the opinion are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion. Furthermore, the opinion will cover certain matters on which the IRS does not rule and will not be binding on the IRS or the courts. Accordingly, the IRS or the courts may challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion and such challenge could prevail. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion, the spin-off and certain related transactions are determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. In addition, if the spin-off transaction is taxable, each holder of our common stock who receives shares of the new company would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received, thereby potentially increasing such holders tax liability. Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution could be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of the new technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services company are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. In this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. In connection with the spin- SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 19 Table of Contents PART I off, we expect to enter into a tax matters agreement with the new company, under which it will agree not to enter into any transaction without our consent that could cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to us and to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such transactions. These obligations and potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or of the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services business. Risks Relating to SAICs Stock We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends on SAIC common stock. In March 2012, our board of directors approved the initiation of a quarterly dividend program. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends fall within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our available cash, estimated cash needs, earnings, financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, as well as limitations in our contractual agreements, applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. A change in our dividend program could have an adverse effect on the market price of SAIC common stock. Provisions in SAICs charter documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of SAICs certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. These restrictions, which may also make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors not endorsed by our current directors and management, include the following: SAICs certificate of incorporation provides that its bylaws and certain provisions of its certificate of incorporation may be amended by only two-thirds or more voting power of all of the outstanding shares entitled to vote. These supermajority voting requirements could impede our stockholders ability to make changes to SAICs certificate of incorporation and bylaws. SAICs certificate of incorporation contains certain supermajority voting provisions, which generally provide that mergers and certain other business combinations between SAIC and a related person be approved by the holders of securities having at least 80% of SAICs outstanding voting power, as well as by the holders of a majority of the voting power of such securities that are not owned by the related person. SAICs stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of SAICs capital stock are limited in their ability to take certain actions other than in connection with its annual stockholders meeting or a special meeting called at the request of qualified stockholders as provided in SAICs certificate of incorporation and bylaws. SAICs board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for SAICs board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, SAIC is also subject to certain restrictions on business combinations. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years, or among other things, SAICs board of directors has approved the business combination or the transaction pursuant to which such person became a 15% holder prior to the time the person became a 15% holder. Forward-Looking Statement Risks You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on our managements belief and assumptions about the future in light of information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, should, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continue, and similar words or phrases or the negative of these words or phrases. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable when made, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results anticipated by our forward-looking statements, which include, but are not limited to: developments in the U.S. Government defense budget, including budget reductions, sequestration, implementation of spending limits or changes in budgetary priorities, or delays in the U.S. Government budget process or approval of raising the debt ceiling; 20 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I delays in the U.S. Government contract procurement process or the award of contracts and delays or loss of contracts as a result of competitor protests; changes in U.S. Government procurement rules, regulations, and practices; our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; governmental reviews, audits and investigations of our company; our ability to effectively compete and win contracts with the U.S. Government and other customers; our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, and to obtain security clearances for our employees; our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts; our ability to comply with certain agreements entered into in connection with the CityTime matter; resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others or legal or regulatory compliance issues; cybersecurity, data security or other security threats, system failures or other disruptions of our business; our ability to effectively acquire businesses and make investments; our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; our ability to manage performance and other risks related to customer contracts, including complex engineering or design build projects; the failure of our inspection or detection systems to detect threats; the adequacy of our insurance programs designed to protect us from significant product or other liability claims; our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; our ability to declare future dividends based on our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors, including compliance with applicable law and our agreements; risks associated with the proposed spin-off of our technical, engineering and enterprise information technology services business, such as disruption to business operations, unanticipated expenses, significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities, the timing of the spin-off or a failure to complete the proposed spin-off or realize the expected benefits of the proposed spin-off; and our ability to execute our business plan and long-term management initiatives effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements or to conform these statements to actual results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties As of January 31, 2013, we conducted our operations in approximately 386 offices located in 45 states, the District of Columbia and various foreign countries. We consider our facilities suitable and adequate for our present needs. We occupy approximately 9.2 million square feet of floor space. Of this amount, we own approximately 2.1 million square feet, and the remaining balance is leased. Our major locations are in the Washington, D.C. and San Diego, California metropolitan areas, SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 21 Table of Contents PART I where we occupy approximately 2.8 million square feet of floor space and 0.6 million square feet of floor space, respectively. We also have employees working at customer sites throughout the United States and in other countries. As of January 31, 2013, we owned the following properties: Location Number of buildings Square footage Acreage McLean, Virginia 4 896,000 18.3 San Diego, California 4 455,000 11.4 Virginia Beach, Virginia 2 159,000 22.5 Huntsville, Alabama 1 102,000 11.3 Columbia, Maryland 1 95,000 7.3 Colorado Springs, Colorado 1 86,000 5.8 Orlando, Florida 1 85,000 18.0 Oak Ridge, Tennessee 1 83,000 12.5 Dayton, Ohio 1 44,000 2.5 Reston, Virginia 1 62,000 2.6 As of January 31, 2013, we had five properties comprising 614,000 square feet of floor space that were classified as held for sale in the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Two of these properties were sold subsequent to January 31, 2013. The nature of our business is such that there is no practicable way to relate occupied space to our reportable segments. See Note 13 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding commitments under leases. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in Note 17 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the matters disclosed in Note 17, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is set forth in Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies Government Investigations and Reviews of the combined notes to the consolidated financial statements contained with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 22 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I Executive and Other Key Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of the names and ages (as of March 26, 2013) of our executive and other key officers, indicating all positions and offices held by each such person and each such persons business experience during at least the past five years. Except as otherwise noted, each of the persons listed below has served in his or her present capacity for us for at least the past five years. All such persons have been elected to serve until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. Science Applications became a 100%-owned subsidiary of SAIC in October 2006 through a reorganization merger in connection with SAICs initial public offering and listing on the New York Stock Exchange. Accordingly, in the following biographical information, references to terms of service as an officer that begin or continue after the reorganization merger refer to service for both companies, while service prior to the reorganization merger refers to service for Science Applications only. Name of officer Age Position(s) with the company and prior business experience Amy E. Alving 50 Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President since 2007. Dr. Alving held various positions with us since 2005, including serving as Chief Scientist from June 2007 to December 2007. Prior to joining us, Dr. Alving served as the Director of the Special Projects Office with Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency from 2001 to 2005 and was a White House fellow at the Department of Commerce from 1997 to 1998. Thomas G. Baybrook* 68 Group Chief of Administration and Operations since February 2013. Mr. Baybrook previously served as Group President (Acting) from October 2011 to January 2013. He held various positions with us since joining in 1999, including serving as General Manager of the Defense and Maritime Solutions business unit from May 2005 to October 2011, and Deputy Business Unit Manager of the Defense and Maritime Solutions business unit from January 2005 to May 2005. Upon joining us, Mr. Baybrook led U.S. Navy and Marine Corps marketing efforts for the then Systems Engineering group. Prior to joining us, Mr. Baybrook held various positions with Intergraph Corporation and he is retired from the U.S. Army. Joseph W. Craver III* 54 Sector President, Health and Engineering, since February 2013. Mr. Craver also served in this same role as Group President since 2007. Mr. Craver previously held various positions with us since 1989, including serving in successive line managerial positions from 1997 to 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Craver held various positions with the U.S. Navy nuclear submarine program from 1981 to 1989. James E. Cuff* 53 Executive Vice President for Corporate Development since 2010. Mr. Cuff has held various positions with us since 1991, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Logistics and Engineering Solutions business unit from April 2001 to August 2010. Prior to joining us through our acquisition of Logistics Systems Architects in 1991, Mr. Cuff served four years in several senior positions, and seven years in the private sector systems integration business, serving in a variety of management and business development positions. Steven P. Fisher 52 Treasurer and Senior Vice President since 2001. Mr. Fisher has held various positions with us since 1988, including serving as Assistant Treasurer and Corporate Vice President for Finance from 1997 to 2001 and Vice President from 1995 to 1997. John R. Hartley* 47 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller since 2005. Mr. Hartley has held various positions within our finance organization since 2001. For 12 years prior to that, Mr. Hartley was with the accounting firm currently known as Deloitte & Touche LLP. Deborah L. James* 54 Sector President, Technical and Engineering, of the Government Solutions Group since February 2013. Ms. James served as Executive Vice President for Communications and Government Affairs from August 2010 to January 2013 and as Business Unit General Manager for the Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Information Technology business unit from March 2005 to August 2010. Immediately prior to joining us in 2002, Ms. James was the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Business Executives for National Security. She has served in senior homeland and national security management, policy and program positions in government and the private sector for more than 25 years. SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 23 Table of Contents PART I Name of officer Age Position(s) with the company and prior business experience John P. Jumper* 68 Chair of the Board since June 2012, Chief Executive Officer and President since March 2012 and Director since 2007. General Jumper retired from the United States Air Force in 2005 after nearly 40 years of service. From September 2001 to November 2005, he was the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force, serving as the senior uniformed Air Force officer responsible for the organization, training and equipping of 750,000 active-duty, Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve and civilian forces serving around the world. As a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Jumper functioned as a military advisor to the Secretary of Defense, National Security Council and the President. General Jumper currently serves as an independent director on the boards of NACCO Industries, Inc., and Hyster-Yale Materials Handling, Inc., both publicly traded companies. He previously served on the boards of Goodrich Corporation, Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc., WESCO Aircraft Holdings, Inc., Somanetics Corporation, and Tech Team Global, Inc. Brian F. Keenan* 56 Executive Vice President for Human Resources since 2007. Mr. Keenan previously held various positions with us since 2000, including serving as Vice President and Director of U.S. Human Resource operations from 2004 to 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Keenan held various positions with Mobil and ExxonMobil from 1985 to 2000. Vincent A. Maffeo* 62 Executive Vice President and General Counsel since 2010. Prior to joining us in June 2010, from 1977 to 2009, Mr. Maffeo was with ITT Corporation, a high-technology engineering and manufacturing company, where he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel from 1995 until 2009. He held various other increasingly responsible legal positions at ITT Corporation in the telecommunications, defense and automotive businesses, and at the European Headquarters of ITT Europe, before becoming General Counsel. Anthony J. Moraco* 53 Group President, Government Solutions, since February 2013. Mr. Moraco previously served as Group President, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, from March 2012 to February 2013. Mr. Moraco served as Executive Vice President for Operations and Performance Excellence from August 2010 to March 2012 and as Business Unit General Manager and deputy of the Space and Geospatial Intelligence business unit from February 2006 to August 2010. Prior to joining us in 2006, Mr. Moraco was with the Boeing Company from 2000 to 2006 and served as the Deputy General Manager of Mission Systems in the Space & Intelligence Systems organization and also the Director of Homeland Security Technology Integration. K. Stuart Shea* 56 Chief Operating Officer since March 2012. Mr. Shea also served as Group President from 2007 to March 2012 and as Senior Vice President and Business Unit General Manager from 2005 to 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Shea served as Vice President and Executive Director of Northrop Grumman Corporations TASC Space and Intelligence operating unit from 1999 to 2005, and led other organizations from 1987 to 1999. Mr. Shea held positions with PAR Technology Corporation from 1982 to 1987. Mark W. Sopp* 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2005. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sopp served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Titan Corporation, a defense and intelligence contractor, from April 2001 to July 2005 and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Titan Systems Corporation, a subsidiary of Titan Corporation, from 1998 to 2001. 24 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART I Name of officer Age Position(s) with the company and prior business experience John D. Thomas 66 Sector President (Acting), National Security, since February 2013. Mr. Thomas also served as Senior Vice President and Business Unit General Manager of the Intelligence Systems Business Unit from February 2011 to February 2013, and General Manager of Operations, Intelligence and Security Business Unit from October 2004 to February 2011. Mr. Thomas joined SAIC in 2002 as an executive for U.S. Army intelligence programs within the then-Intelligence Solutions Group following a 33-year career in the U.S. Army, where he retired with the rank of major general. * Indicates an executive officer. Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of General Instructions to Form 10-K, the list above is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being incorporated by reference from the definitive Proxy Statement to be used in connection with the solicitation of proxies for SAICs 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (2013 Proxy Statement). SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities SAICs common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker symbol SAI. Science Applications is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SAIC and there is no public trading market for common stock of Science Applications. Historical Stock Prices The range of high and low sales prices at closing of SAICs common stock on the NYSE for each fiscal quarter during the last two fiscal years was as follows: Fiscal 2013 Fiscal Quarter High Low 1 st quarter (February 1, 2012 to April 30, 2012) $ 13.61 $ 11.98 2 nd quarter (May 1, 2012 to July 31, 2012) $ 12.26 $ 10.38 3 rd quarter (August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012) $ 12.98 $ 10.80 4 th quarter (November 1, 2012 to January 31, 2013) $ 12.21 $ 10.92 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal Quarter High Low 1 st quarter (February 1, 2011 to April 30, 2011) $ 17.55 $ 15.88 2 nd quarter (May 1, 2011 to July 31, 2011) $ 17.56 $ 16.03 3 rd quarter (August 1, 2011 to October 31, 2011) $ 15.59 $ 11.32 4 th quarter (November 1, 2011 to January 31, 2012) $ 13.26 $ 11.26 Holders of Common Stock As of March 8, 2013, there were approximately 30,600 holders of record of SAIC common stock. The number of stockholders of record of SAIC common stock is not representative of the number of beneficial owners due to the fact that many shares are held by depositories, brokers, or nominees. SAIC is the holder of record of all Science Applications common stock. Dividend Policy Prior to fiscal 2013, SAIC did not pay any cash dividends on its capital stock. During fiscal 2013, SAIC declared and paid quarterly dividends totaling $0.48 per share of SAIC common stock. SAIC currently intends to continue paying dividends on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future dividends will be determined by SAICs board of directors and will depend on available cash, estimated cash needs, earnings, financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, as well as limitations in our contractual agreements, applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our board of directors considers relevant. Our ability to declare and pay future dividends on SAIC stock may be restricted by the provisions of Delaware law and covenants in our revolving credit facility. Following the reorganization merger in which it became a subsidiary of SAIC, Science Applications has not declared or paid cash dividends to SAIC. Science Applications may declare and pay cash dividends to SAIC from time to time, but there is no present intention to do so in the foreseeable future. 26 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART II Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the total cumulative five-year return on SAIC common stock through our fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 to two indices: (i) the Standard & Poors 500 Composite Stock Index and (ii) the Standard & Poors North American Technology-Services Index (formerly known as the Goldman Sachs Technology-Services Index). As of January 31, 2013, SAIC common stock was a component of each of the comparison indices. The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 on February 1, 2008 and that dividends, if any, have been reinvested. The comparisons in the graph are required by the SEC, based upon historical data and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of SAIC common stock. Purchases of Equity Securities In March 2012, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program (2012 Stock Repurchase Program) under which we may repurchase up to 40 million shares of SAIC common stock. Stock repurchases may be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions with third parties. Whether repurchases are made and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased depends on a variety of factors including price, corporate capital requirements, other market conditions and regulatory requirements. The following table presents repurchases of SAICs common stock during the quarter ended January 31, 2013: Period (a) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased (1) (b) Average Price Paid per Share (or Unit) (c) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Repurchase Plans or Programs (2) (d) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) November 1, 2012 November 30, 2012 9,549 $ 11.05 40,000,000 December 1, 2012 December 31, 2012 34,325 $ 11.52 40,000,000 January 1, 2013 January 31, 2013 4,156 $ 11.99 40,000,000 Total 48,030 $ 11.47 (1) Includes shares of SAIC common stock purchased as follows: November December January Upon surrender by stockholders of previously owned shares to satisfy statutory tax withholding obligations related to vesting of stock awards 9,549 34,325 4,156 (2) We may repurchase up to 40 million shares of SAIC common stock under the 2012 Stock Repurchase Program, which was publicly announced in March 2012. SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 27 Table of Contents PART II Item 6. Selected Financial Data The selected financial data set forth below is derived from our consolidated financial statements for each of the fiscal years in the five year period ended January 31, 2013. As SAIC is a holding company and it consolidates Science Applications for financial statement purposes, the following financial data relates to both companies, except where otherwise indicated. Science Applications revenues and expenses comprise 100% of SAICs revenues and operating expenses. In addition, Science Applications comprises approximately the entire balance of SAICs assets, liabilities and operating cash flows, except for an interest-bearing note between Science Applications and SAIC. This information should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II and our consolidated financial statements and the combined notes thereto contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Year Ended January 31 2013 2012 (1) 2011 2010 2009 (in millions, except per share data) Consolidated Statement of Income Data: SAIC: Revenues $ 11,173 $ 10,497 $ 10,798 $ 10,445 $ 9,635 Operating income 734 299 929 816 731 Income (loss) from continuing operations 523 (15 ) 547 467 418 Income from discontinued operations 2 74 72 29 28 Net income 525 59 619 496 446 Earnings per share: Basic: Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 1.54 $ (.04 ) $ 1.46 $ 1.17 $ 1.03 Income from discontinued operations .22 .19 .08 .07 $ 1.54 $ .18 $ 1.65 $ 1.25 $ 1.10 Diluted: Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 1.54 $ (.04 ) $ 1.45 $ 1.16 $ 1.01 Income from discontinued operations .22 .19 .07 .07 $ 1.54 $ .18 $ 1.64 $ 1.23 $ 1.08 Cash dividend per common share $ .48 Science Applications: Revenues $ 11,173 $ 10,497 $ 10,798 $ 10,455 $ 9,635 Operating income 734 299 929 816 731 Income (loss) from continuing operations 524 (18 ) 539 453 391 Income from discontinued operations 2 74 72 29 28 Net income 526 56 611 482 419 January 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 5,875 $ 6,667 $ 6,223 $ 5,295 $ 5,048 Notes payable and long-term debt, including current portion 1,298 1,852 1,852 1,106 1,116 Other long-term liabilities 168 162 135 195 180 (1) Fiscal 2012 results include a $540 million loss provision recorded in connection with resolution of the CityTime matter described in Note 17 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 28 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report Table of Contents PART II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following combined discussion and analysis of SAICs and Science Applications financial condition and results of operations and