Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are presented for our continuing operations. We use the terms Company, we, us and our to refer to Leidos, Leidos, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, references to fiscal years are to fiscal years ended January 31 (for fiscal 2013 and earlier periods) or fiscal years ending the Friday closest to January 31 (for fiscal 2014 and later periods). Effective in fiscal 2014, we changed our fiscal year to a 52/53 week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to January 31, with fiscal quarters typically consisting of 13 weeks. For example, we refer to the fiscal year ending January 30, 2015 as fiscal 2015. Overview We are an applied technology company delivering solutions and services that leverage the power of data analytics, systems integration and cyber security across our three markets of national security, health and engineering to agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and other U.S. Government civil agencies, state and local government agencies, foreign governments and customers across a variety of commercial markets. We operate in the following segments: National Security Solutions; Health and Engineering; and Corporate and Other. Our National Security Solutions segment provides solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. intelligence community, the DoD, the military services and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Our solutions deliver technology, large-scale intelligence systems, data analytics, cyber solutions, logistics and intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. Our Health and Engineering segment provides health systems integration services to implement and optimize the use of electronic health records, apply data analytics, and conduct behavioral health research to help enable customers to improve healthcare quality and patient outcomes, detect and prevent diseases, enhance scientific discovery and reduce costs to the healthcare system. We also provide engineering services and solutions focused on solving energy, environmental and infrastructure challenges. These include products and solutions in energy generation, efficiency and management, environmental services, securing critical infrastructure and designing and building construction projects. 33 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Our significant management initiatives include the following: Achieving internal, or non-acquisition related, revenue growth through internal collaboration and better leveraging of key differentiators across our company and the deployment of resources and investments into higher growth markets; Increasing the growth of our operating profits through improving the quality of our revenues and contract profitability, continued improvement in our information technology (IT) systems infrastructure and related business processes for greater effectiveness and efficiency across all business functions; and Disciplined deployment of our cash resources and use of our capital structure to enhance shareholder value through internal growth initiatives, stock repurchases, dividends, strategic acquisitions and other uses to achieve our goals. Key financial results during the three months ended May 2, 2014 include: Revenues for the three months ended May 2, 2014 decreased 17% from the corresponding period in the prior year. The revenue contraction for the quarter was due to a decrease in National Security Solutions segment revenues of 12% and a decrease in Health and Engineering segment revenues of 27%. Operating income from continuing operations was $89 million for the three months ended May 2, 2014 up from $76 million for the corresponding period in the prior year. The increase in operating income from continuing operations was primarily due to a $13 million reduction in separation and restructuring expenses. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three months ended May 2, 2014 was $0.59 as compared to $0.43 in the corresponding period in the prior year, primarily due to the aforementioned operating income from continuing operations increase of $13 million and a decrease in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding of 6 million shares, or 7%, primarily due to shares repurchased under our accelerated stock repurchase programs. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $247 million during the three months ended May 2, 2014 primarily due to dividend payments of $24 million on Leidos stock and the repurchase of stock for a purchase price of $212 million primarily due to the accelerated stock repurchase program. Net bookings (as defined in Key Performance MeasuresBookings and Backlog) were approximately $857 million for the three months ended May 2, 2014. Total backlog was $8.8 billion at May 2, 2014 and $9.3 billion at January 31, 2014. Spin-off Transaction In accordance with a distribution agreement, on September 27, 2013 (the "Distribution Date"), Leidos completed a spin-off of its technical services and enterprise information technology services business into an independent, publicly traded company named Science Application International Corporation. The spin-off was effected through a tax-free distribution to Leidos' stockholders of 100% of the shares of New SAIC's common stock. On the Distribution Date, New SAIC's common stock was distributed, on a pro rata basis, to Leidos' stockholders of record as of the close of business on September 19, 2013, the record date. Each holder of Leidos common stock received one share of New SAIC common stock for every seven shares of Leidos common stock held on the record date. As a result of the spin-off, the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of New SAIC have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. References to financial information are to our continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. 34 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. In fiscal 2014, in connection with the spin-off transaction and in order to align our cost structure for post-separation, we incurred approximately $46 million in expenses related to lease termination costs, facility consolidation costs and other costs in connection with vacating facilities that were not necessary for our future requirements as well as $10 million of severance costs and $9 million of other separation transaction and restructuring expenses. For the three months ended May 3, 2013, we incurred approximately $9 million of lease termination and facility consolidation expenses, $3 million of severance costs and $2 million of other separation transaction and restructuring expenses. For the three months ended May 2, 2014, we incurred approximately $1 million of lease termination and facility consolidation expenses related to an adjustment to the prior year reserve established for loss on leases in connection with revised sublease income assumptions. We do not expect to incur significant additional separation transaction and restructuring expenses in fiscal 2015 related to the spin-off transaction. Discontinued Operations From time to time, we may dispose (or management may commit to plans to dispose) of non-strategic components of the business, which are reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Fiscal 2014 Dispositions In addition to the spin-off of New SAIC discussed above, in order to better align our business portfolio with our strategy, we sold or committed to plans to dispose of certain other components of our business, that were historically included in our National Security Solutions segment. In August 2013, we committed to plans to dispose of a business primarily focused on technology used to detect if an individual is concealing explosive devices or other hidden weapons. In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we adjusted the carrying values of the business's assets to their fair value based on the estimated selling price of the business (Level 1 fair value measurement). The carrying value exceeded the fair value which resulted in approximately $12 million of impairment charges recorded in discontinued operations. The sale transaction was completed on May 9, 2014 with insignificant net proceeds received. In November 2013, we sold a certain component of our business focused on machine language translation, resulting in an insignificant gain. In January 2014, we committed to plans to dispose of Cloudshield Technologies, Inc., previously acquired in fiscal 2011, which is focused on producing a suite of cybersecurity hardware and associated software and services. The operating results of our discontinued operations discussed above for the periods presented were as follows: Three Months Ended May 2, 2014 May 3, 2013 (in millions) Revenues $ 18 $ 1,110 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues 17 1,001 Selling, general and administrative expenses (including impairment charges of $9 million for the three months ended May 2, 2014) 13 22 Intangible asset impairment charges 3 $ 2 Separation transaction and restructuring expenses 19 Operating (loss) income $ (15 ) $ 66 (Loss) income from discontinued operations also includes other activity that is immaterial and not reflected in the amounts above. 35 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Business Environment and Trends U.S. Government Markets In fiscal 2014, we generated approximately 78% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. Revenues under contracts with the DoD, including subcontracts under which the DoD is the ultimate purchaser, represented approximately 68% of our total revenues in fiscal 2014. Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. Government spending, especially national security, homeland security, and intelligence spending, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. Government. Contributing to long term fiscal uncertainty is the continuing uncertainty over the debt ceiling extension, which will expire in March 2015. We believe that U.S. Government budget deficits and the national debt have created increasing pressure to examine and reduce spending across all federal agencies. The Budget Control Act of 2011 raised the U.S. Governments debt ceiling and imposed 10-year discretionary spending caps expected to generate over $1 trillion in savings for the U.S. Government. According to the Office of Management and Budget, these savings include $487 billion in DoD baseline spending reductions over 10 years, which began to be implemented in the U.S. Government fiscal year ended September 30, 2013. In December 2013, the President signed into law the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, which reduced the effects of sequestration in FY 2014 and FY 2015 for national security, but did not make the same concessions for the cuts in medical reimbursements. Since then, roughly 60% of all healthcare in the United States is reimbursed by a government program. These reimbursements are tied to the government spending level and were significantly reduced as part of the Budget Control Act. This has had a direct effect in the amount of available discretionary spending on IT modernization in US hospitals and has therefore slowed the growth we had previously experienced in our commercial Health IT practice. The implementation of sequestration spending cuts and associated government guidance and planning activities has impacted existing contracts, caused program delays and cancellations and caused delays in other government contracting actions. In addition, future implementation of spending cuts as we return to Sequestration in FY 2016 could cause further delays in contract awards and continued uncertainty. We continue to evaluate the impact of spending reductions on our businesses. The amount and nature of these federal budget spending reductions could adversely impact our operations, future revenues and growth prospects. Trends in the U.S. Government contracting process, including a shift towards multiple-awards contracts (in which certain contractors are preapproved using indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) and U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) contract vehicles) and awarding contracts on a low price, technically acceptable basis, have increased competition for U.S. Government contracts, reduced backlogs by shortening periods of performance on contracts and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. For more information on these risks and uncertainties, see Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014. Commercial and International Markets Sales to customers in commercial and international markets serve to diversify us from reliance upon U.S. Government business. These markets are correlated with global macroeconomic conditions and therefore the pace of global GDP growth could impact our operations, future revenues, and growth prospects in international markets. In addition, the timing of sales to customers in our commercial health business is partially dependent upon legislation which impacts implementation time lines for Meaningful Use of certified electronic health record (EHR) technology and International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10). Implementation requirements for both of these catalysts have been delayed, which may impact the near-term performance of our commercial health business. 36 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Key Performance Measures The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted EPS. We also believe that bookings and backlog are useful measures for management and investors to evaluate our potential future revenues. In addition, we consider measures such as contract types and revenue mix to be useful measures to management and investors evaluating our operating income and margin performance. We previously reported in our fiscal 2014 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q internal revenue growth (contraction), which is a non-GAAP financial measure due to acquisitions occurring in prior periods. In this quarterly report, there were no acquisitions for the current and comparable periods presented, therefore we are not presenting this non-GAAP measure in this quarterly report. Bookings and Backlog. We received net bookings worth an estimated $857 million during the three months ended May 2, 2014. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of any adjustments to previously awarded backlog amounts. We calculate net bookings as the periods ending backlog plus the periods revenues less the prior periods ending backlog and less the backlog obtained in acquisitions during the period. Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows: Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts, and does not include the unfunded portion of contracts where funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. Government and other customers, even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government agencies and commercial customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenues to be earned in the future from (1) negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and (2) unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedule, or other master agreement contract vehicles. The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates presented, with the prior period recast for consistency with the current periods presentation, was as follows: May 2, 2014 January 31, 2014 (in millions) National Security Solutions: Funded backlog $ 1,986 $ 1,854 Negotiated unfunded backlog 5,005 5,604 Total National Security Solutions backlog $ 6,991 $ 7,458 Health and Engineering: Funded backlog $ 1,123 $ 1,153 Negotiated unfunded backlog 728 694 Total Health and Engineering backlog $ 1,851 $ 1,847 Total: Funded backlog $ 3,109 $ 3,007 Negotiated unfunded backlog 5,733 6,298 Total backlog $ 8,842 $ 9,305 37 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Bookings and backlog fluctuate from period to period depending on our success rate in winning contracts and the timing of contract awards, renewals, modifications and cancellations. Contract awards continue to be negatively impacted by ongoing industry-wide delays in procurement decisions, and budget cuts, including sequestration, by the U.S. Government as discussed in Business Environment and Trends in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. In addition, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. Contract Types. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract. For additional information regarding the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see BusinessContract Types in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014. The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of total revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended May 2, 2014 May 3, 2013 Cost-reimbursement 48 % 46 % Time and materials (T&M) and fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) 28 26 Firm-fixed price (FFP) 24 28 Total 100 % 100 % The decrease in the firm-fixed price (FFP) contract revenue percentage for the three months ended May 2, 2014 when compared to the corresponding period of the prior year is primarily due to the completion of two energy design-build construction projects in the second half of fiscal 2014. Revenue Mix. We generate revenues under our contracts from (1) the efforts of our technical staff, which we refer to as labor-related revenues, and (2) the materials provided on a contract and efforts of our subcontractors, which we refer to as M&S revenues. M&S revenues are generated primarily from large, multi-year systems integration contracts and contracts in our logistics, readiness and sustainment business area, as well as through sales of our proprietary products, such as our border, port and mobile security products and our checked baggage explosive detection systems. The following table presents changes in labor-related revenues and M&S revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended May 2, 2014 Percent change May 3, 2013 (dollars in millions) Labor-related revenues $ 816 (17)% $ 988 As a percentage of revenues 62 % 62 % M&S revenues 504 (17)% 609 As a percentage of revenues 38 % 38 % Geographic Location. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States. 38 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended May 2, 2014 Dollar change Percent change May 3, 2013 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 1,320 $ (277 ) (17 )% $ 1,597 Cost of revenues 1,147 (230 ) (17 )% 1,377 Selling, general and administrative expenses: General and administrative 54 (44 ) (45 )% 98 Bid and proposal 19 (1 ) (5 )% 20 Internal research and development 10 % 10 Intangible asset impairment charges (2 ) (100 )% 2 Separation transaction and restructuring expenses 1 (13 ) (93 )% 14 Operating income 89 13 17 % 76 Operating income margin 6.7 % 4.8 % Non-operating expense, net (18 ) (3 ) 20 % (15 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 71 10 16 % 61 Income tax provision (25 ) (4 ) 19 % (21 ) Income from continuing operations 46 6 15 % 40 (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax (9 ) (50 ) (122 )% 41 Net income $ 37 $ (44 ) (54 )% $ 81 We classify indirect costs incurred within or allocated to our government customers as overhead (included in cost of revenues) and general and administrative expenses in the same manner as such costs are defined in our disclosure statements under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards. General and administrative expenses decreased in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 in part due to the aforementioned restructuring plan in fiscal 2014 to align our cost structure for post-separation. Changes in Estimates on Contracts. Changes in estimates related to certain types of contracts accounted for using the percentage of completion method of accounting are recognized in the period in which such changes are made for the inception-to-date effect of the changes. Changes in these estimates can routinely occur over the contract performance period for a variety of reasons, including changes in contract scope, changes in contract cost estimates due to unanticipated cost growth or retirements of risk for amounts different than estimated and changes in estimated incentive or award fees. Aggregate changes in contract estimates resulted in an increase to operating income of $11 million ($0.09 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 2, 2014, and a decrease to operating income by $1 million (less than $0.01 per diluted share) for the three months ended May 3, 2013. 39 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Reportable Segment Results. The following table summarizes changes in National Security Solutions revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended National Security Solutions May 2, 2014 Percent change May 3, 2013 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 944 (12 )% $ 1,077 Operating income 77 8 % 71 Operating income margin 8 % 7 % National Security Solutions revenues decreased $133 million, or 12%, for the three months ended May 2, 2014 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. Revenue contraction was primarily attributable to contract activities tied to the drawdown of overseas U.S. military forces ($78 million) including the ramp down of the Joint Logistics Integration (JLI) program for tactical mine resistant ambush protected vehicles (accounting for $32 million of the $78 million decline). Revenues across the segment continue to be impacted by overall reductions in defense and U.S. government spending resulting from sequestration and budget cuts. National Security Solutions operating income increased $6 million, or 8%, for the three months ended May 2, 2014 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. The increase in operating income was primarily attributable to the net favorable changes in contract estimates ($9 million) and a decrease in amortization expense of intangible assets ($1 million), partially offset by the decline in revenue volumes ($8 million).The three months ended May 3, 2013 included an intangible asset impairment charge ($2 million). The following table summarizes changes in Health and Engineering revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended Health and Engineering May 2, 2014 Percent change May 3, 2013 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 380 (27 )% $ 521 Operating income 25 (29 )% 35 Operating income margin 7 % 7 % Health and Engineering revenues decreased $141 million, or 27%, for the three months ended May 2, 2014 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. The revenue contraction reflects a decline in engineering services ($85 million) due to the completion of two energy design-build construction projects in the second half of fiscal year 2014 (accounting for $63 million of the $85 million decline), lower sales volumes in our non-intrusive inspection business due to the timing of product shipments ($41 million) and lower sales volumes in our commercial and federal health business ($15 million). Health and Engineering operating income decreased $10 million, or 29%, for the three months ended May 2, 2014 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. The decrease was driven by lower revenues ($10 million), including a decline in engineering products which typically generate higher margins, and an operating loss for the Plainfield biomass power plant due to production short falls ($8 million), partially offset by a favorable ruling on a legal matter ($5 million) and lower intangible asset amortization expense ($5 million). The first quarter of fiscal 2014 included an unfavorable change in contract estimates of $3 million on the Plainfield design-build construction project. 40 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. The following table summarizes changes in Corporate and Other revenues and operating loss for the periods presented: Three Months Ended Corporate and Other May 2, 2014 May 3, 2013 (in millions) Operating loss $ (13 ) $ (30 ) Corporate and Other operating loss represents corporate costs that are unallowable under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards and the net effect of various items that are not directly related to the operating performance of the reportable segments. Corporate and Other operating loss decreased by $17 million for the three months ended March 2, 2014 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year primarily due to a decrease in separation transaction and restructuring expenses ($13 million) associated with the spin-off which was completed in fiscal 2014 and a reduction in other unallocable corporate costs. Non-Operating Expense. Non-operating expense for the three months ended May 2, 2014 increased $3 million as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. The increase is primarily attributable to a decrease in interest income for the three months ended May 2, 2014 when compared to the corresponding period of the prior year due to the collection or forgiveness of deferred receivables for commercial customers related to certain construction contracts. There was no change in interest expense for Leidos, Inc. for the three months ended May 2, 2014, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. Interest expense on Leidos Inc.'s note with Leidos decreased $2 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. This note may fluctuate significantly from year to year based on changes in the underlying note balance and interest rates throughout the fiscal year. Provision for Income Taxes. Our provision for income taxes as a percentage of income before income taxes was 35.2% for the three months ended May 2, 2014 compared to 34.4% for the corresponding period in prior year. The increase in the effective tax rate for the current period is primarily due to the expiration of the federal research and development credit on December 31, 2013 and the decrease in tax benefit from the tax deductibility of the quarterly dividends paid on shares held by the Leidos Retirement Plan (an employee ownership plan) due to a reduction in the number of employees participating in the plan as a consequence of the spin off of New SAIC partially offset by the tax benefit from state income tax refunds recorded in the current quarter. The effective tax rate for the three months ended May 3, 2013 included the estimated non-deductible portion of settlements of legal and regulatory matters, partially offset by the tax deductibility of the special dividend, which was declared during the three months ended May 3, 2013, on shares held by the Leidos Retirement Plan and the reinstatement of the research and development tax credit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. We file income tax returns in the United States and various state and foreign jurisdictions and have effectively settled with the IRS for all fiscal years prior to fiscal 2014, except fiscal 2010. As of May 2, 2014, we had liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $17 million, $12 million of which were classified as other long-term liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The resolution of certain of these tax matters could result in an $8 million reduction in our uncertain tax positions and a $4 million reduction in income tax expense in continuing operations during the second half of fiscal 2015. 41 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview of Liquidity We had $183 million in cash and cash equivalents at May 2, 2014, which were primarily comprised of cash held in investments in several large institutional money market funds that invest primarily in bills, notes and bonds issued by the U.S. Treasury, U.S. Government guaranteed repurchase agreements fully collateralized by U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. Government guaranteed securities and investment-grade corporate securities that have original maturities of three months or less, and bank deposits. We anticipate our principal sources of liquidity for the next 12 months and beyond will be our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations. We may also borrow under our $750 million revolving credit facility. We expect that our borrowing capacity of $750 million under the revolving credit facility will be reduced to approximately $600 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2015 based on the results of our financial covenants as of May 2, 2014. Our revolving credit facility is backed by a number of financial institutions, matures in March 2017 and, by its terms, can be accessed on a same-day basis. We anticipate our principal uses of cash for the next 12 months and beyond will be for operating expenses, capital expenditures, stock repurchases, dividends and acquisitions of businesses. In December 2013, we entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase ("ASR") agreement with a financial institution to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $300 million . The delivery of all shares under the December 2013 ASR agreement was completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. In March 2014, we entered into a second ASR agreement with a different financial institution to repurchase shares of our outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $200 million . The delivery of all shares under the March 2014 ASR agreement is expected to be completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2015. We anticipate that our operating cash flows, existing cash and cash equivalents, which have no restrictions on withdrawal, and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes cash flow information for the periods presented: Three Months Ended May 2, 2014 May 3, 2013 (in millions) Cash used in operating activities of continuing operations $ (8 ) $ (102 ) Cash (used in) provided by investing activities of continuing operations (10 ) 9 Cash used in financing activities of continuing operations (233 ) (53 ) Cash provided by (used in) operating activities of discontinued operations 4 (26 ) Cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations (1 ) Total decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (247 ) $ (173 ) Cash Used in Operating Activities of Continuing Operations. Cash flows used in operating activities of continuing operations decreased $94 million for the three months ended May 2, 2014 as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to a $109 million reduction in working capital attributable to the discontinuance of the U.S. Government accelerated payment initiative in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and the timing of vendor payments. Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities of Continuing Operations. We used $10 million in support of investing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended May 2, 2014, to purchase property, plant and equipment. We had cash flows provided by investing activities of continuing operations of $9 million during the three months ended May 3, 2013, including $25 million of proceeds from the sale of facilities, partially offset by $18 million to purchase property, plant and equipment. 42 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Cash Used in Financing Activities of Continuing Operations. We used $233 million of cash in support of financing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended May 2, 2014, including the payment of dividends of $24 million and $212 million to repurchase shares of our stock primarily from the March 2014 ASR as well as repurchases related to employee benefit compensation plans. We used $53 million of cash in support of financing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended May 3, 2013, including the payment of dividends of $41 million and $16 million to repurchase shares of our stock related to employee benefit compensation plans. Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities of Discontinued Operations. Cash flows provided by operating activities of discontinued operations increased $30 million for the three months ended May 2, 2014, primarily due to $63 million less cash used for working capital purposes related to the spin-off of New SAIC and a $17 million tax settlement in the prior year on the gain from the sale of certain components of our business in fiscal 2013, offset by a decrease in net income of $50 million. Leidos, Inc.s Cash Flows. Any differences in cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations for Leidos, Inc. as compared to Leidos are primarily attributable to changes in interest payments (which reduce cash flow from operating activities of Leidos, Inc.) made by Leidos, Inc. on its note to Leidos and changes in excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation (which reduce cash flows from operating activities for Leidos). Leidos, Inc. used cash in investing activities of $244 million during the three months ended May 2, 2014, including repayments on its related party note with Leidos of $237 million, partially offset by proceeds from the related party note with Leidos of $3 million. Leidos, Inc. used cash in financing activities of continuing operations of $53 million during the three months ended May 3, 2013 including repayments on its note with Leidos of $57 million offset by proceeds from the note of $4 million. Outstanding Indebtedness Notes Payable and Long-term Debt. Our outstanding notes payable and long-term debt consisted of the following: Stated interest rate Effective interest rate May 2, 2014 January 31, 2014 (dollars in millions) Leidos Holdings, Inc. senior unsecured notes: $450 million notes, which mature in December 2020 4.45 % 4.53 % $ 449 $ 449 $300 million notes, which mature in December 2040 5.95 % 6.03 % 300 300 Leidos, Inc. senior unsecured notes: $250 million notes, which mature in July 2032 7.13 % 7.43 % 248 248 $300 million notes, which mature in July 2033 5.50 % 5.78 % 296 296 Capital leases and other notes payable due on various dates through fiscal 2021 0%-3.7% Various 40 40 Total notes payable and long-term debt $ 1,333 $ 1,333 Less current portion 3 2 Total notes payable and long-term debt, net of current portion $ 1,330 $ 1,331 Fair value of notes payable and long-term debt $ 1,358 $ 1,350 The notes payable outstanding as of May 2, 2014 contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances. We were in compliance with all covenants as of May 2, 2014. 43 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Credit Facility. Leidos has a revolving credit facility, which is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Leidos, Inc., providing for up to $750 million in unsecured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined, at Leidos option, based on either LIBOR plus a margin or a defined base rate. During the three months ended May 3, 2013, the maturity date of the credit facility was extended for one additional year to March 2017, as provided for in the terms of the credit facility. As of May 2, 2014 and January 31, 2014, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility, and we had $750 million of available borrowing capacity. The credit facility contains certain customary representations and warranties, as well as certain affirmative and negative covenants. During the three months ended May 3, 2013, the financial covenants in the credit facility were amended to: (i) permit in the calculation of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) the adding back of certain expenses incurred in connection with our separation transaction; (ii) exclude the effect of debt incurred in connection with the separation transaction for purposes of calculating consolidated funded debt; and (iii) change the ratio of consolidated funded debt to EBITDA that we are required to maintain. The financial covenants contained in the credit facility require that, for a period of four trailing fiscal quarters, we maintain a ratio of consolidated funded debt, including borrowings under this facility, to EBITDA adjusted for other items as defined in the credit facility of not more than 3.25 to 1.0 and a ratio of EBITDA adjusted for other items as defined in the credit facility to interest expense of greater than 3.5 to 1.0. If our trailing four quarters of EBITDA declines below a certain threshold, our borrowing capacity available under the credit facility reduces. We expect that our borrowing capacity of $750 million under the revolving credit facility will be reduced to approximately $600 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2015 based on the results of our financial covenants as of May 2, 2014. As of May 2, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit facility. A failure by us to meet these financial covenants in the future would reduce and could eliminate our borrowing capacity under the credit facility. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain of our unconsolidated joint venture investments. We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to guarantees on contracts with foreign government customers and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds. These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition. Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to a number o f reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits and other uncertainties related to our business. For a discussion of these items, see Notes 11 and 12 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for t he three months ended May 2, 2014 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and assumptions have been prepared by management on the basis of the most current reasonably available information. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We have several critical accounting policies, which were described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the three months ended May 2, 2014. 44 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Updates Adopted In February 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2013-04: Liabilities (Topic 405): Obligations Resulting from Joint and Several Liability Arrangements for Which the Total Amount of the Obligation Is Fixed at the Reporting Date . This standard requires an entity to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation within the scope of this guidance is fixed at the reporting date, as the sum of the amount the reporting entity agreed to pay on the basis of its arrangement among its co-obligors and any additional amount the reporting entity expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors. The guidance also requires an entity to disclose the nature and amount of the obligation as well as other information about those obligations. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013. The adoption of the provisions of ASU 2013-04 did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In March 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-05, Foreign Currency Matters (Topic 830): Parents Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment upon Derecognition of Certain Subsidiaries or Groups of Assets within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign Entity. This standard applies to the release of the cumulative translation adjustment into net income when a parent either sells a part of or all of its investment in a foreign entity or no longer holds a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a nonprofit activity or a business within a foreign entity. In addition, the amendments resolve the diversity in practice for the treatment of business combinations achieved in stages (i.e. step acquisitions) involving a foreign entity. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013. The adoption of the provisions of ASU 2013-05 did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. During the quarter presented, we adopted various other accounting standards issued by the FASB, none of which had a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Accounting Standards Updates Issued But Not Yet Adopted In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360): Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity. The amendments in the ASU change the criteria for reporting discontinued operations while enhancing disclosures in this area. Under the new guidance, only disposals representing a strategic shift in operations should be presented as discontinued operations. Those strategic shifts should have a major effect on the organizations operations and financial results. Examples include a disposal of a major geographic location, a major line of business or a major equity method investment. In addition, the new guidance requires expanded disclosures about discontinued operations that will provide financial statement users with more information about the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of discontinued operations.The new guidance also requires disclosure of the pre-tax income attributable to a disposal of a significant part of an organization that does not qualify for discontinued operations reporting. This disclosure will provide users with information about the ongoing trends in a reporting organizations results from continuing operations. The amendments in the ASU are effective in the first quarter of 2015 for public organizations with calendar year ends. Early adoption is permitted. We are still evaluating the provisions of ASU 2014-08 and its impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets unless those contracts are within the scope of other standards (for example, insurance contracts or lease contracts). This ASU will supersede the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition , and most industry-specific guidance throughout the Industry Topics of the codification. Additionally, this ASU supersedes some cost guidance included in Subtopic 605-35, Revenue Recognition-Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts . The guidance's core principle is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In applying the revenue principles, an entity will identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, 45 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied. The ASU further states that an entity should disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods (including interim reporting periods within those periods) beginning after December 15, 2016, for public companies. Early adoption is not permitted. We are still evaluating the provisions of ASU 2014-09 and its impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Effects of Inflation Approxim ately 48% o f our revenues are derived from cost-reimbursement type contracts, which are generally completed within one year. Bids for long-term FFP and T&M and FP-LOE contracts typically include sufficient provisions for labor and other cost escalations to cover anticipated cost increases over the period of performance. As a result, our revenues and costs have generally both increased commensurate with inflation and net income as a percentage of total revenues has not been significantly affected.