Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are presented for our continuing operations. We use the terms Company, we, us and our to refer to SAIC, Science Applications and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, references to years are for fiscal years ended January 31. For example, we refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2013 as fiscal 2013. Overview We are a provider of scientific, engineering, systems integration and technical services and solutions in the areas of defense, health, energy, infrastructure, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and cybersecurity to agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and other U.S. Government civil agencies, state and local government agencies, foreign governments and customers in select commercial markets. Our business is focused on using deep domain knowledge to solve issues of vital importance to the nation and the world in the areas of national security, energy and the environment, critical infrastructure and health. We are focusing our investments in our strategic growth areas including: intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; cybersecurity; logistics, readiness and sustainment; energy and environment; and health information technology. Our significant long-term management initiatives include: achieving internal, or non-acquisition related, annual revenue growth through internal collaboration and better leveraging of key differentiators across our company and the deployment of resources and investments into higher growth markets; improving our operating income margin through strong contract execution and growth in higher-margin business areas and continued improvement in our information technology (IT) systems infrastructure and related business processes for greater effectiveness and efficiency across all business functions; disciplined deployment of our cash resources and use of our capital structure to enhance growth and stockholder value through internal growth initiatives, strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends and other uses as conditions warrant; and investing in our people, including enhanced training and career development programs, with a focus on retention and recruiting. Key financial highlights and events, including progress against managements initiatives, during the three months ended April 30, 2012 include: Revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2012 increased 3% over the same period in the prior year, reflecting internal revenue growth (as defined in Non-GAAP Financial Measures) of 2%. Internal revenue growth was driven primarily by increased activity in our Defense Solutions and Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions segments partially offset by a decline in our Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment. 24 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Operating income decreased $22 million to $208 million (7.5% as a percentage of revenues) for the three months ended April 30, 2012 from $230 million (8.6% as a percentage of revenues) for the same period in the prior year. The decrease in operating margin is primarily due to increased indirect spending, including bid and proposal costs, an $8 million reduction in net positive changes in contract estimates and a $6 million gain on the sale of real estate assets during the three months ended April 30, 2011. Income from continuing operations for the three months ended April 30, 2012 decreased $13 million, or 10%, over the same period in the prior year primarily due to decreased operating income of $22 million partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations for the three months ended April 30, 2012 decreased $.01 per share, or 3%, as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the decline in income from continuing operations partially offset by a decline in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding of 18 million, or 5%, primarily due to stock repurchases. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $425 million during the three months ended April 30, 2012 reflecting $361 million of cash used for operations, including a $500 million cash settlement payment related to the CityTime program described in Note 9 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements, a quarterly dividend payment of $41 million and cash used to repurchase SAIC common stock totaling $19 million. Net bookings (as defined in Key Financial MetricsBookings and Backlog) were approximately $2.1 billion for the three months ended April 30, 2012. Total backlog was $17.4 billion at April 30, 2012 as compared to $18.0 billion at January 31, 2012. Business Environment and Trends In fiscal 2012, we generated over 90% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. Revenues under contracts with the DoD, including subcontracts under which the DoD is the ultimate purchaser, represented approximately 75% of our total revenues in fiscal 2012. Accordingly, our business performance is subject to changes in the overall level of U.S. Government spending, especially national security, including defense, homeland security, and intelligence spending, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. Government. While we believe that national security, including defense, homeland security, and intelligence spending will continue to be a priority, the U.S. Government deficit and budget situation has created increasing pressure to examine and reduce spending in these areas. In August 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which increased the U.S. Governments debt ceiling and enacted 10-year discretionary spending caps expected to generate over $1 trillion in savings for the U.S. Government. According to the Office of Management and Budget, these savings include $487 billion in DoD baseline spending reductions over the next 10 years. The Budget Control Act also established a joint bipartisan committee of Congress responsible to recommend at least $1.2 trillion in additional savings by November 23, 2011. The joint committee did not meet the November deadline for proposing recommended legislation. Unless Congress passes and the President signs legislation amending the Budget Control Act, additional automatic spending cuts (referred to as sequestration) totaling $1.2 trillion over nine years will be triggered. Assuming approximately $200 million in reduced debt-service costs, these discretionary spending cuts are expected to further reduce defense and non-defense spending by approximately $500 billion each, beginning in the government fiscal year ending September 30, 2013 (GFY13). We are evaluating the potential impacts of this legislation on our business, and while the ultimate effect on our business is uncertain, the amount and nature of these federal budget spending reductions could adversely impact our future revenues and growth prospects in those markets. In January 2012, the DoD issued strategic guidance on the U.S. defense priorities for the next ten years, which identified the primary missions of the U.S. armed forces and the capabilities expected to be critical to future success, including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance and cybersecurity. Although the impact of implementation of the strategic guidance on the DoD budget and our business is uncertain, we believe that we are well positioned to support many of these critical capabilities. In February 2012, the Office of Management and Budget released the Presidents GFY13 budget request. The budget request included a variety of tax proposals aimed at boosting the economy while collecting more revenue from high-income taxpayers, and as expected, it also included discretionary spending reductions stipulated by the Budget Control Act of 2011. Ultimately, we believe we will likely see delayed federal appropriation bills for GFY13, with continuing resolutions required to fund government into early GFY13 (late calendar year 2012), as well as the continued threat of possible additional spending cuts through sequestration. 25 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Competition for contracts with the U.S. Government continues to be intense. The U.S. Government has increasingly used contracting processes that give it the ability to select multiple winners or pre-qualify certain contractors to provide various services or products at established general terms and conditions. Such processes include purchasing services and solutions using indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) and U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) contract vehicles. This trend has served to increase competition for U.S. Government contracts. For more information on these risks and uncertainties, see Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012. Reportable Segments Our business is aligned into four reportable segments: Defense Solutions; Health, Energy and Civil Solutions; Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions; and Corporate and Other. For additional information regarding our reportable segments, see Note 8 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended April 30, 2012 contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and Business in Part I and Note 15 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012. Key Financial Metrics Bookings and Backlog. We received net bookings worth an estimated $2.1 billion during the three months ended April 30, 2012. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of any adjustments to previously awarded backlog amounts. We calculate net bookings as the periods ending backlog plus the periods revenues less the prior periods ending backlog and less the backlog obtained in acquisitions during the period. Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows: Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts, and does not include the unfunded portion of contracts where funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. Government and other customers, even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government agencies represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenues to be earned in the future from (1) negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and (2) unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedule, or other master agreement contract vehicles. 26 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates presented was as follows: April 30, 2012 January 31, 2012 (in millions) Defense Solutions: Funded backlog $ 2,026 $ 2,143 Negotiated unfunded backlog 4,605 4,961 Total Defense Solutions backlog $ 6,631 $ 7,104 Health, Energy and Civil Solutions: Funded backlog $ 1,940 $ 2,077 Negotiated unfunded backlog 3,154 3,336 Total Health, Energy and Civil Solutions backlog $ 5,094 $ 5,413 Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions: Funded backlog $ 1,752 $ 1,317 Negotiated unfunded backlog 3,880 4,169 Total Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions backlog $ 5,632 $ 5,486 Total: Funded backlog $ 5,718 $ 5,537 Negotiated unfunded backlog 11,639 12,466 Total backlog $ 17,357 $ 18,003 Total backlog fluctuates from period to period depending on our success rate in winning contracts and the timing of contract awards, renewals, modifications and cancellations. Contract awards continue to be negatively impacted by on-going industry-wide delays in procurement decisions, which have resulted in an increase in the value of our submitted proposals awaiting decision. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time. In addition, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. Contract Types . Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract. For additional information regarding the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see BusinessContract Types in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012. The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of total revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30 2012 2011 Cost-reimbursement 42 % 43 % Time and materials (T&M) and fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) 30 31 Firm-fixed-price (FFP) 28 26 Total 100 % 100 % The increase in the percentage of revenues generated from FFP contracts during the three months ended April 30, 2012, as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily due to increased revenues from increased deliveries under certain logistics, readiness and sustainment contracts, increased design and construction services and the continued ramp up of a program to operate and maintain the enterprise network IT infrastructure for the U.S. Department of State. Revenue Mix . We generate revenues under our contracts from (1) the efforts of our technical staff, which we refer to as labor-related revenues, and (2) the materials provided on a contract and efforts of our subcontractors, which we refer to as M&S revenues. M&S revenues are generated primarily from large, multi-year systems integration contracts and contracts in our logistics, readiness and sustainment business area, as well as through sales of our proprietary products, such as our border, port and mobile security products and our checked baggage explosive detection systems. While our proprietary products are more profitable, these products represent a small percentage of our M&S revenues and the majority of our 27 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION M&S revenues generally have lower margins than our labor-related revenues. The following table presents changes in labor-related revenues and M&S revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30 2012 Percent change 2011 (dollars in millions) Labor-related revenues $ 1,510 (2 )% $ 1,542 As a percentage of revenues 54 % 57 % M&S revenues 1,272 11 1,146 As a percentage of revenues 46 % 43 % Labor-related revenues for the three months ended April 30, 2012 have declined as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a reduction in the number of employees. In recent years, there have been increases in the relative proportion of M&S revenues as compared to labor-related revenues primarily due to increased activity as a prime contractor on large programs involving significant subcontracted efforts and increased volume of material deliveries under certain programs primarily with DoD customers. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30 2012 Percent change 2011 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 2,782 3 % $ 2,688 Cost of revenues 2,448 4 2,357 Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A): General and administrative (G&A) 69 38 50 Bid and proposal (B&P) 43 19 36 Internal research and development (IR&D) 14 (7 ) 15 Operating income 208 (10 ) 230 Operating income margin 7.5 % 8.6 % Non-operating expense, net (25 ) (23 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 183 (12 ) 207 Provision for income taxes (66 ) (14 ) (77 ) Income from continuing operations 117 (10 ) 130 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 1 Net income $ 117 (11 ) $ 131 We classify indirect costs incurred within or allocated to our government customers as overhead (included in cost of revenues) and G&A expenses in the same manner as such costs are defined in our disclosure statements under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards. Changes in Estimates on Contracts . Changes in estimates related to certain types of contracts accounted for using the percentage of completion method of accounting are recognized in the period in which such changes are made for the inception-to-date effect of the changes. Changes in these estimates can routinely occur over the contract performance period for a variety of reasons, including changes in contract scope, changes in contract cost estimates due to unanticipated cost growth or retirements of risk for amounts different than estimated, and changes in estimated incentive or award fees. Aggregate changes in contract estimates increased operating income by $4 million ($0.01 per diluted share) and $12 million ($0.02 per diluted share) for the three months ended April 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Reportable Segment Results. Effective February 1, 2012, certain operations were transferred between the Companys reportable segments. Prior year amounts have been adjusted for consistency with the current years presentation. 28 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION The following table summarizes changes in Defense Solutions revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30 Defense Solutions 2012 Percent change 2011 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 1,174 3 % $ 1,137 Operating income 101 12 90 Operating income margin 8.6 % 7.9 % Defense Solutions revenues increased by $37 million, or 3%, all of which was internal revenue growth, for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Internal revenue growth was attributable to the continued ramp up of a program to operate and maintain the enterprise network IT infrastructure for the U.S. Department of State ($42 million), increased activity on systems integration and logistics programs for tactical and mine resistant ambush protected vehicles ($34 million) and ramp up of a new prime contract with the Defense Logistics Agency to provide supply chain management of military land and aircraft tires ($24 million). These increases were partially offset by reduced revenue from the U.S. Army Brigade Combat Team Modernization contract as a result of the programs termination during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 ($54 million). Defense Solutions operating income increased by $11 million for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year. This increase was primarily due to indirect cost reductions, strong program performance and fees on increased revenues ($3 million). The following table summarizes changes in Health, Energy and Civil Solutions revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30 Health, Energy and Civil Solutions 2012 Percent change 2011 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 678 3 % $ 657 Operating income 47 (13 ) 54 Operating income margin 6.9 % 8.2 % Health, Energy and Civil Solutions revenues increased $21 million, or 3%, for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the August 2011 acquisition of Vitalize Consulting Solutions, Inc. Internal revenue contracted 3% reflecting declines in various federal civilian programs ($28 million) and program completions in our federal health information technology business ($25 million), particularly with our U.S. DoD military health system customers. These declines were partially offset by increased deliveries of our non-intrusive cargo inspection systems ($22 million), increased design-build volume related to geothermal and biomass power plant construction ($19 million) and increases in healthcare IT consulting services with commercial clients ($17 million). Health, Energy and Civil Solutions operating income decreased $7 million, or 13%, for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year. The decline in operating income was primarily due to higher levels of indirect spending ($3 million), an increase in amortization associated with a prior year acquisition ($2 million) and unfavorable impacts of changes in contract estimates ($5 million). This decline was partially offset by reduced research and development expense ($4 million) primarily related to the timing of research and development activities for new homeland security product offerings. The following table summarizes changes in Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30 Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions 2012 Percent change 2011 (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 930 4 % $ 896 Operating income 66 (23 ) 86 Operating income margin 7.1 % 9.6 % 29 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions revenues increased $34 million, or 4%, all of which was internal revenue growth, for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Internal revenue growth was primarily attributable to increased activity on our airborne surveillance programs ($33 million) and increased activity on existing cybersecurity contracts ($14 million), both of which had significant material and subcontractor components. These increases were partially offset by a decline in revenues on intelligence analysis programs ($25 million) primarily due to the draw down of overseas U.S. military forces and a contract completed in the prior year. Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions operating income decreased $20 million for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in operating income was primarily attributable to higher levels of indirect spending, including the timing of B&P and IR&D spending which increased substantially over the prior year ($13 million), a reduction in net positive changes in contract estimates ($4 million) and a decline in sales of our higher-margin proprietary products ($5 million). The level of B&P activity fluctuates from period to period depending on the nature and timing of bidding opportunities. The following table summarizes changes in Corporate and Other operating loss for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30 Corporate and Other 2012 2011 (in millions) Revenues $ $ Operating loss $ (6 ) $ Corporate and Other operating loss for the three months ended April 30, 2012 and 2011 represents corporate costs that are unallowable under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards and the net effect of various items that are not directly related to the operating performance of the reportable segments. Corporate and Other operating loss for the three months ended April 30, 2011 included a $6 million gain on sale of real estate. Interest Expense. Interest expense remained relatively consistent for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period of the prior year. Interest expense for Science Applications decreased $1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period of the prior year, reflecting a $2 million decrease in interest on its note with SAIC partially offset by a $1 million increase in interest on third-party debt. Interest expense related to Science Applications note with SAIC may fluctuate significantly from year to year based on changes in the underlying note balance and interest rates throughout the fiscal year. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes was 36.1% and 37.2% for the three months ended April 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2012 was primarily due to a change in the estimated deductible amount of a prior year legal settlement and the tax deductibility of quarterly dividends paid on shares held by the SAIC Retirement Plan (an employee stock ownership plan), partially offset by expiration of the federal research and development tax credit on December 31, 2011. We file income tax returns in the United States and various state and foreign jurisdictions and have effectively settled with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal years prior to and including fiscal 2008. We also settled fiscal 2011 as a result of our participation in the IRS Compliance Assurance Process beginning in fiscal 2011, in which we and the IRS endeavor to agree on the treatment of all tax positions prior to the filing of the tax return, thereby greatly reducing the period of time between return submission and settlement with the IRS. Diluted Earnings per Share (EPS) from Continuing Operations . Diluted EPS from continuing operations decreased $.01 per share to $0.35 per share for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in income from continuing operations and a decline in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding of 18 million, or 5%, primarily due to share repurchases. Discontinued Operations. In June 2011, in order to better align our business portfolio with our strategy, we sold certain components of our business, which were historically included in the Health, Energy and Civil Solutions segment, primarily focused on providing information technology services to international oil and gas companies. In fiscal 2012, we received net proceeds of $167 million resulting in a gain on sale before income taxes of $111 million related to this sale. Under terms of the definitive agreement, we retained the assets and obligations of our defined benefit pension plan in the United Kingdom. We have classified the operating results of these business components, including pension expense through the date of sale, as discontinued operations. Following the asset sale, as a result of retaining the pension obligation, the remaining 30 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION components of ongoing pension expense, primarily interest costs and assumed return on plan assets, are recorded in continuing operations. The operating results of this discontinued operation for the three months ended April 30, 2011 were as follows (in millions): Revenues $ 45 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenues 36 Selling, general and administrative expenses 7 Income before income taxes $ 2 Income from discontinued operations also includes other activity that is immaterial and not reflected in the table above. Net Income. Net income decreased $14 million, or 11%, for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in net income for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year reflects a decrease in income from continuing operations. Net income for Science Applications decreased $13 million, or 10%, for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year for the reasons described above. Diluted EPS. Diluted EPS decreased $0.01 per share to $0.35 per share for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to a decrease in net income of $14 million partially offset by an 18 million share, or 5%, decline in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding, primarily due to share repurchases. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $1.167 billion in cash and cash equivalents at April 30, 2012, which were primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds that invest primarily in bills, notes and bonds issued by the U.S. Treasury, U.S. Government guaranteed repurchase agreements fully collateralized by U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. Government guaranteed securities and investment-grade corporate securities that have original maturities of three months or less. We anticipate our principal sources of liquidity for the next 12 months and beyond will be our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations. We may also borrow under our $750 million revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility is backed by a number of financial institutions, matures in fiscal 2017 and, by its terms, can be accessed on a same-day basis. We anticipate our principal uses of cash for the next 12 months and beyond will be for operating expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses, stock repurchases, dividends and payment of current portions of notes payable and long-term debt, including our $550 million senior unsecured notes maturing in July 2012. We anticipate that our operating cash flows, existing cash and cash equivalents, which have no restrictions on withdrawal, and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. Historical Trends Cash and cash equivalents was $1.167 billion and $1.592 billion at April 30, 2012 and January 31, 2012, respectively. The following table summarizes cash flow information for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30 2012 2011 (in millions) Total cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations $ (361 ) $ 154 Total cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations (7 ) 8 Total cash flows used in financing activities of continuing operations (57 ) (242 ) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations (6 ) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1 Total decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (425 ) $ (85 ) Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities of Continuing Operations. Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations decreased $515 million for the three months ended April 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations were primarily impacted by a $500 million cash settlement payment related to the CityTime program described in Note 9 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 31 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Any differences in cash flows from operations for Science Applications as compared to SAIC are primarily attributable to changes in interest payments made on the related party note. Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities of Continuing Operations. We used $7 million of cash in support of investing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended April 30, 2012 including $8 million to purchase property, plant and equipment. We generated $8 million of cash in support of investing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended April 30, 2011 including $15 million of proceeds from the sale of real estate, partially offset by $9 million to purchase property, plant and equipment. Cash Used in Financing Activities of Continuing Operations. We used $57 million of cash in support of financing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended April 30, 2012, including payment of a quarterly dividend of $41 million and $19 million to repurchase shares of our stock. We used $242 million of cash in support of financing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended April 30, 2011, including $246 million to repurchase shares of our stock. Science Applications used cash in financing activities of continuing operations of $258 million during the three months ended April 30, 2012, including repayments on the related party note with SAIC of $283 million partially offset by proceeds on the related party note of $26 million. Science Applications used cash from financing activities of continuing operations of $241 million during the three months ended April 30, 2011, including repayments on the related party note with SAIC of $563 million partially offset by proceeds from the related party note with SAIC of $323 million. Stock Repurchase Program In March 2012, our board of directors terminated the stock repurchase program authorized in December 2010 and authorized a new stock repurchase program under which we may repurchase up to 40 million shares of SAIC common stock. Stock repurchases may be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions with third-parties. Whether repurchases are made and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased depends on a variety of factors including price, corporate capital requirements, other market conditions and regulatory requirements. Outstanding Indebtedness Notes Payable and Long-term Debt. Our outstanding notes payable and long-term debt consisted of the following: Stated interest rate Effective interest rate April 30, 2012 January 31, 2012 (in millions) SAIC senior unsecured notes: $450 million notes issued in fiscal 2011, which mature in December 2020 4.45 % 4.53 % $ 449 $ 449 $300 million notes issued in fiscal 2011, which mature in December 2040 5.95 % 6.03 % 300 300 Science Applications senior unsecured notes: $550 million notes issued in fiscal 2003, which mature in July 2012 6.25 % 6.50 % 550 550 $250 million notes issued in fiscal 2003, which mature in July 2032 7.13 % 7.43 % 248 248 $300 million notes issued in fiscal 2004, which mature in July 2033 5.50 % 5.78 % 296 296 Capital leases and other notes payable due on various dates through fiscal 2018 0-2.5 % Various 8 9 Total notes payable and long-term debt 1,851 1,852 Less current portion 553 553 Total notes payable and long-term debt, net of current portion $ 1,298 $ 1,299 Fair value of notes payable and long-term debt $ 1,982 $ 2,011 These notes contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. We were in compliance with all covenants as of April 30, 2012. Credit Facility. SAIC has a revolving credit facility, which is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Science Applications, providing for up to $750 million in unsecured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined, at SAICs option, based on either LIBOR plus a margin or a defined base rate through fiscal 2017. During the three months ended April 30, 2012, we extended the maturity date of the revolving credit facility for one additional year, to March 2016, as provided for in the terms of the revolving credit facility. As of April 30, 2012 and January 31, 2012, there were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility contains financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants. We were 32 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION in compliance with all covenants under the revolving credit facility as of April 30, 2012. A failure to meet the financial covenants in the future would reduce and could eliminate our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain of our unconsolidated joint venture investments. We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in Note 10 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended April 30, 2012 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition. We have also entered into an agreement with a variable interest entity (VIE) in connection with a renewable energy project as described in Note 10 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended April 30, 2012 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits and other uncertainties related to our business. For a discussion of these items, see Notes 9 and 10 of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended April 30, 2012 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and assumptions have been prepared on the basis of the most current reasonably available information. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We have several critical accounting policies, which were described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012, that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the three months ended April 30, 2012. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we refer to internal revenue growth percentage, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that we reconcile to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We calculate our internal revenue growth percentage by comparing our reported revenues for the current year period to the revenues for the prior year period adjusted to include the actual revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period before acquisition. This calculation has the effect of adding revenues for the acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period to our prior year period reported revenues. We use internal revenue growth percentage as an indicator of how successful we are at growing our base business and how successful we are at growing the revenues of the businesses that we acquire. Our integration of acquired businesses allows our current management to leverage business development capabilities, drive internal resource collaboration, utilize access to markets and qualifications, and refine strategies to realize synergies, which benefits both acquired and existing businesses. As a result, the performance of the combined enterprise post-acquisition is an important measurement. In addition, as a means of rewarding the successful integration and growth of acquired businesses, and not acquisitions themselves, incentive compensation for our executives and the broader employee population is based, in part, on achievement of revenue targets linked to internal revenue growth. The limitation of this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is that internal revenue growth percentage is one of two components of the total revenue growth percentage, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We address this limitation by presenting the total revenue growth percentage next to or near disclosures of internal revenue growth percentage. This financial measure is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The method that we use to calculate internal revenue growth percentage is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies. 33 SAIC, INC. SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION Internal revenue growth (contraction) percentages for the three months ended April 30, 2012 were calculated as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2012 (dollars in millions) Defense Solutions: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 1,137 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 1,137 Current year periods revenues, as reported 1,174 Internal revenue growth $ 37 Internal revenue growth percentage 3 % Health, Energy and Civil Solutions: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 657 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period 41 Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 698 Current year periods revenues, as reported 678 Internal revenue contraction $ (20 ) Internal revenue contraction percentage (3 )% Intelligence and Cybersecurity Solutions: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 896 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 896 Current year periods revenues, as reported 930 Internal revenue growth $ 34 Internal revenue growth percentage 4 % Total*: Prior year periods revenues, as reported $ 2,688 Revenues of acquired businesses for the comparable prior year period 41 Prior year periods revenues, as adjusted $ 2,729 Current year periods revenues, as reported 2,782 Internal revenue growth $ 53 Internal revenue growth percentage 2 % * Total revenues include amounts related to Corporate and Other and intersegment eliminations. Effects of Inflation Approximately 50% of our revenues are derived from cost-reimbursement type contracts, which are generally completed within one year. Bids for longer-term FFP and T&M and FP-LOE contracts typically include sufficient provisions for labor and other cost escalations to cover anticipated cost increases over the period of performance. Consequently, revenues and costs have generally both increased commensurate with inflation. As a result, net income as a percentage of total revenues has not been significantly impacted by inflation.