Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)" are presented for our continuing operations. Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the Company, we, us, and our refer collectively to Leidos , Leidos, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries. On March 20, 2015, our Board of Directors approved the amendment and restatement of our bylaws to change both Leidos' and Leidos, Inc.'s year end from the Friday nearest the end of January to the Friday nearest the end of December. As a result of this change, we will file our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which will cover the 11 month period ending on January 1, 2016, as our transition report. This change does not impact our prior year, which ended January 30, 2015. In order to allow an immediate transition to the new calendar and to maintain transparency and comparability of financial information included in our quarterly Form 10-Q filings, the quarterly information in this Form 10-Q is being presented on a three month basis for the current year which includes the last month of the year ended January 30, 2015. The prior year information is being presented on the basis of our prior year fiscal calendar. Therefore, the quarterly information presented in our MD&A is for the three months ended April 3, 2015 and the comparable prior year period is for the three months ended May 2, 2014. We do not believe that the change in our year end has a material effect on the comparability of the prior periods presented as our business is primarily driven by productive hours and time sold which is comparable period over period. Overview We are an applied technology company delivering solutions and services that leverage expertise in the national security, health and engineering markets. We bring domain-specific capability to each of our markets, including imagery and signals intelligence, advanced sensing phenomenology, intelligence collection methods, life sciences and power grid engineering. In addition to market-specific capabilities, we have three core areas of technical expertise: data analytics, systems engineering and cybersecurity. Customer needs in our markets span these three core areas of expertise, enabling cross-market innovations for our entire customer set. We provide these solutions and services to government and commercial customers, both domestically and internationally. Leidos' technically advanced solutions have enabled us to build strong ties with our key domestic customers. These customers include 26 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"), other U.S. Government civil agencies, government agencies of U.S. allies abroad, and state and local government agencies. We operate in the following segments: National Security Solutions; Health and Engineering; and Corporate and Other. Our National Security Solutions segment provides solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. intelligence community, the DoD, the military services, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and government agencies of U.S. allies abroad. Our solutions deliver technology, large-scale intelligence systems, command and control, data analytics, cybersecurity, logistics, and intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. Within our Health and Engineering segment, our Health business provides services and solutions to commercial hospitals and the DoD as well as conducts research and development for U.S. Government and Commercial enterprises in the life sciences field. Our healthcare business is focused on improving the overall availability and quality of data and services that ultimately improves the quality of care while lowering cost for our customers. Our Engineering business leverages technology and skills in process engineering, engineering design and systems integration to create innovative and cost effective solutions for our customers. Key financial results during the three months ended April 3, 2015 include: Revenues for the three months ended April 3, 2015 decreased 5% from the three months ended May 2, 2014. The revenue contraction for the quarter was due to a decrease in National Security Solutions segment revenues of 9% offset by an increase in Health and Engineering segment revenues of 3% . Operating income from continuing operations was $38 million for the three months ended April 3, 2015 down from $87 million for the three months ended May 2, 2014. The decrease in operating income from continuing operations was primarily due to $40 million of tangible asset impairment charges associated with adjusting the carrying values of Plainfield's assets to their fair values based on the estimated selling price of the business pursuant to terms of a definitive selling agreement entered into in March 2015. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three months ended April 3, 2015 was $0.31 as compared to $0.57 in the three months ended May 2, 2014, primarily due to the aforementioned operating income from continuing operations decrease of $49 million , partially offset by a decrease in the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding of 3 million shares, or 4% , primarily due to share repurchases. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $82 million during the three months ended April 3, 2015 primarily due to cash used in operations of $42 million , debt repurchases payments of $28 million , and dividend payments of $24 million . Net bookings (as defined in Key Performance MeasuresBookings and Backlog) were approximately $891 million for the three months ended April 3, 2015. Total backlog was $7.5 billion at April 3, 2015 and $7.8 billion at January 30, 2015. 27 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Business Environment and Trends U.S. Government Markets For the year ended January 30, 2015, we generated approximately 79% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government. Revenues under contracts with the DoD, including subcontracts under which the DoD is the ultimate purchaser, represented approximately 67% of our total revenues for the year ended January 30, 2015. Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. Government spending, especially national security, homeland security, and intelligence spending, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. Government. We continue to believe that U.S. Government budget deficits and the national debt have created increasing pressure to examine and reduce spending across all federal agencies. The Budget Control Act of 2011 raised the U.S. Governments debt ceiling and imposed 10-year discretionary spending sequestration caps expected to generate over $1 trillion in savings for the U.S. Government. According to the Office of Management and Budget, these savings include nearly $500 billion in DoD baseline spending reductions over 10 years, which began to be implemented in the U.S. Government fiscal year ended September 30, 2013. In December 2013, the President signed into law the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, which reduced the effects of sequestration in the U.S. Government fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for national security, but did not make the same concessions for the cuts in medical reimbursements. Roughly 60% of all healthcare costs in the United States are reimbursed by a government program. These reimbursements are tied to the government spending level and were significantly reduced as part of the Budget Control Act. We believe the cuts in medical reimbursements had a direct effect in the amount of available spending on IT modernization in U.S. hospitals and has therefore slowed the growth we had previously experienced in our commercial health IT practice. The implementation of sequestration spending cuts and associated government guidance and planning activities has impacted existing contracts, caused program delays and cancellations and caused delays in other government contracting actions. In addition, future implementation of spending cuts may occur as we return to sequestration in the U.S. Government fiscal year 2016 could cause further delays in contract awards and continued uncertainty. We continue to evaluate the impact of spending reductions on our businesses. The amount and nature of these federal spending reductions could adversely impact our operations, future revenues, and growth prospects. Trends in the U.S. Government contracting process, including a shift towards multiple-awards contracts (in which certain contractors are preapproved using indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity ("IDIQ") and U.S. General Services Administration ("GSA") contract vehicles) and awarding contracts on a low price, technically acceptable basis, have increased competition for U.S. Government contracts, reduced backlogs by shortening periods of performance on contracts, and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. For more information on these risks and uncertainties, see Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Commercial Markets Sales to customers in commercial markets (approximately 17% of total revenues for the year ended January 30, 2015) help to diversify us from reliance upon U.S. Government business. Among the commercial markets we serve, the addressable market for our commercial electronic health record (EHR) implementation consulting services has become increasingly competitive. Pressure factors in this market include wider adoption and maturation of the life cycle of initial EHR system implementations and adverse pricing pressure, as software providers for EHR systems are increasingly competing for EHR consulting services. Our healthcare provider customers are also facing economic challenges with lower levels of Medicare reimbursement and the advent of outcome-based Medicare reimbursements. In addition, the timing of EHR consulting projects that we rely upon for revenue streams are 28 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. affected by government regulations, which impact the implementation time for system upgrades or implementations designed to comply with Meaningful Use and International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems ("ICD-10") regulations. Implementation requirements for both of these potential sales catalysts have been delayed, which we believe have adversely impacted performance of our commercial health business. It is difficult to predict when or if these factors will improve, and therefore, in the near term, our ability to grow and increase the profitability of our commercial health business remains uncertain. Key Performance Measures The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted EPS. We also believe that bookings and backlog are useful measures for management and investors to evaluate our potential future revenues. In addition, we consider measures such as contract types and revenue mix to be useful measures to management and investors evaluating our operating income and margin performance. Bookings and Backlog. We received net bookings worth an estimated $891 million during the first quarter ended April 3, 2015. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenue to be earned in the future from funded and unfunded contract awards that were received during the year, net of any adjustments to previously awarded backlog amounts. We calculate net bookings as the years ending backlog plus the years revenues less the prior years ending backlog and less the backlog obtained in acquisitions during the year. Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows: Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts, and does not include the unfunded portion of contracts where funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. Government and other customers, even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government agencies and commercial customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from (1) negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and (2) unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedule, or other master agreement contract vehicles. 29 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates presented was as follows: April 3, 2015 January 30, 2015 (in millions) National Security Solutions: Funded backlog $ 1,786 $ 1,596 Negotiated unfunded backlog 4,073 4,491 Total National Security Solutions backlog $ 5,859 $ 6,087 Health and Engineering: Funded backlog $ 975 $ 1,061 Negotiated unfunded backlog 636 645 Total Health and Engineering backlog $ 1,611 $ 1,706 Total: Funded backlog $ 2,761 $ 2,657 Negotiated unfunded backlog 4,709 5,136 Total backlog $ 7,470 $ 7,793 Bookings and backlog fluctuate from period to period depending on our success rate in winning contracts and the timing of contract awards, renewals, modifications and cancellations. Contract awards continue to be negatively impacted by ongoing industry-wide delays in procurement decisions, and budget cuts, including sequestration, by the U.S. Government as discussed in Business Environment and Trends in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. Government may cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. In addition, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. Contract Types. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract. For additional information regarding the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see BusinessContract Types in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 30, 2015. The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of total revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 3, 2015 May 2, 2014 Cost-reimbursement 48 % 48 % Time and materials (T&M) and fixed-price-level-of-effort (FP-LOE) 25 28 Firm-fixed price (FFP) 27 24 Total 100 % 100 % 30 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Revenue Mix. We generate revenues under our contracts from (1) the efforts of our technical staff, which we refer to as labor-related revenues, and (2) the materials provided on a contract and efforts of our subcontractors, which we refer to as M&S revenues. M&S revenues are generated primarily from large, multi-year systems integration contracts and contracts in our logistics, readiness and sustainment business area, as well as through sales of our proprietary products, such as our border, port and mobile security products and our checked baggage explosive detection systems. The following table presents changes in labor-related revenues and M&S revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 3, 2015 Percent change May 2, 2014 (dollars in millions) Labor-related revenues $ 726 (9)% $ 802 As a percentage of revenues 58 % 61 % M&S revenues 520 2% 510 As a percentage of revenues 42 % 39 % The decrease in labor-related revenues is directly correlated to the decrease in employees over the period. Geographic Location. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 3, 2015 May 2, 2014 Dollar change Percent change (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 1,246 $ 1,312 $ (66 ) (5 )% Cost of revenues 1,093 1,141 (48 ) (4 )% Selling, general and administrative expenses: General and administrative 51 55 (4 ) (7 )% Bid and proposal 16 19 (3 ) (16 )% Internal research and development 8 10 (2 ) (20 )% Asset impairment charges 40 40 100 % Operating income 38 87 (49 ) (56 )% Operating income margin 3.0 % 6.6 % Non-operating expense, net (15 ) (18 ) 3 17 % Income from continuing operations before income taxes 23 69 (46 ) (67 )% Income tax expense (24 ) 24 100 % Income from continuing operations 23 45 (22 ) (49 )% Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 18 (8 ) 26 NM Net income $ 41 $ 37 $ 4 11 % NM - Not meaningful 31 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. We classify indirect costs incurred within or allocated to our government customers as overhead (included in cost of revenues) and general and administrative expenses in the same manner as such costs are defined in our disclosure statements under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards. Effective January 31, 2015, we updated our disclosure statements, resulting in certain costs being classified differently either as cost of revenues or as general and administrative expenses on a prospective basis. These changes did not have an overall impact on the total expense or income reported. Changes in Estimates on Contracts. Changes in estimates related to certain types of contracts accounted for using the percentage of completion method of accounting are recognized in the period in which such changes are made for the inception-to-date effect of the changes. Changes in these estimates can routinely occur over the contract performance period for a variety of reasons, including changes in contract scope, changes in contract cost estimates due to unanticipated cost growth or retirements of risk for amounts different than estimated and changes in estimated incentive or award fees. Aggregate changes in contract estimates resulted in an increase to operating income of $4 million and an increase of $0.04 per diluted share for the three months ended April 3, 2015. Aggregate changes in contract estimates resulted in an increase to operating income of $11 million and an increase of $0.09 per diluted share for the three months ended May 2, 2014. Long-Lived Asset Impairment Evaluations. Property, Plant & Equipment Evaluation. In March 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell 100% of our equity membership interest in Plainfield. We adjusted the carrying values of Plainfield's assets to their fair values based on the estimated selling price of the business pursuant to the terms of the agreement (Level 1 fair value measurement). The carrying value exceeded the fair value which resulted in approximately $40 million of tangible asset impairment charges. The sale transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approval, and is expected to be completed later in the year ending January 1, 2016. Reportable Segment Results. The following table summarizes changes in National Security Solutions revenues and operating income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended National Security Solutions April 3, 2015 May 2, 2014 Dollar change Percent change (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 862 $ 944 $ (82 ) (9 )% Operating income 62 77 (15 ) (19 )% Operating income margin 7.2 % 8.2 % National Security Solutions revenues decreased $82 million , or 9% , for the three months ended April 3, 2015 as compared to the three months ended May 2, 2014. Revenue contraction was primarily attributable to contract activities tied to the drawdown of overseas U.S. military forces ($57 million) which includes a reduction of airborne programs that support intelligence collection ($36 million). The remainder of the decline was primarily driven by overall reductions in defense and U.S. government spending resulting from budget cuts and higher competition resulting in lower contract awards. National Security Solutions operating income decreased $15 million , or 19% , for the three months ended April 3, 2015 as compared to the three months ended May 2, 2014. This decrease in operating income was primarily attributable to a decrease in revenues ($7 million), a decrease in net favorable changes in contract estimates ($9 million) and facilities exit costs ($4 million), partially offset by decreases in indirect costs. 32 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. The following table summarizes changes in Health and Engineering revenues and operating (loss) income for the periods presented: Three Months Ended Health and Engineering April 3, 2015 May 2, 2014 Dollar change Percent change (dollars in millions) Revenues $ 385 $ 372 $ 13 3 % Operating (loss) income (7 ) 23 (30 ) (130 )% Operating (loss) income margin (1.8 )% 6.2 % Health and Engineering revenues increased $13 million , or 3% , for the three months ended April 3, 2015 as compared to the three months ended May 2, 2014. The revenue growth reflects higher sales volume in our engineering business ($49 million) and the security products business ($4 million), which were partially offset by decreased demand in our health business ($40 million). Health and Engineering operating loss was $7 million for the three months ended April 3, 2015 as compared to operating income of $23 million for the three months ended May 2, 2014. Operating loss for the three months ended April 3, 2015 was impacted by an impairment charge to adjust the carrying values of the Plainfield plant's assets to their fair values based on the estimated selling price of the business ( $40 million ). The three months ended April 3, 2015 also benefited from higher sales in our security products business which typically generate higher margins, a reduction in indirect costs attributable to our commercial health business ($7 million), recovery of bad debt ($3 million), and net favorable changes in contract estimates ($3 million). The prior year benefited from a favorable ruling on a legal matter ($5 million). The following table summarizes changes in Corporate and Other operating loss for the periods presented: Three Months Ended Corporate and Other April 3, 2015 May 2, 2014 Dollar change Percent change (dollars in millions) Operating loss $ (17 ) $ (13 ) $ (4 ) (31 )% Corporate and Other operating loss for the three months ended April 3, 2015 represents corporate costs that are unallowable under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards and the net effect of various items that are not directly related to the operating performance of the reportable segments. The three months ended April 3, 2015 includes $10 million in lease termination costs and a provision for a litigation matter. Non-Operating Expense. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Non-operating expense for the three months ended April 3, 2015 decreased $3 million as compared to the three months ended May 2, 2014. In September 2014, we entered into interest rate swap agreements on our $450 million fixed rate 4.45% notes maturing in December 2020. The interest rate swap agreements effectively converted a portion of our fixed-rate debt to floating-rate debt tied to the changes in the six-month LIBOR benchmark interest rate. Interest expense decreased $5 million for the three months ended April 3, 2015 primarily attributable to the repurchase of $29 million of outstanding debt and entering into interest rate swap agreements. 33 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Leidos, Inc. Interest income on Leidos, Inc.'s note with Leidos increased $1 million for the three months ended April 3, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 2, 2014. This note may fluctuate significantly from year to year based on changes in the underlying note balance and interest rates throughout the fiscal year. Provision for Income Taxes. For the three months ended April 3, 2015, our income tax expense was insignificant which resulted in an immaterial effective rate as compared to an income tax expense of $24 million for the three months ended May 2, 2014, resulting in a 34.8% effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for the three months ended April 3, 2015 was favorably impacted by the tax benefit of a capital loss resulting from the conversion of one of our domestic subsidiaries treated as a corporation to a limited liability company ("LLC") regarded as a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. Our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets was $120 million as of April 3, 2015 and January 30, 2015. The valuation allowance was due primarily to the recognition of a deferred tax asset for capital loss carryovers recognized on the LLC conversion and deferred tax assets related to impaired capital investments as we may not generate sufficient capital gains to realize the associated tax benefit. For the three months ended April 3, 2015, our discontinued operations reflect a tax benefit of $18 million due to the conversion of one of our domestic subsidiaries held in discontinued operations. This conversion resulted in a deemed liquidation for U.S. tax purposes and triggered tax deductions and an income tax benefit. We file income tax returns in the United States and various state and foreign jurisdictions and have effectively settled with the IRS for all fiscal years prior to fiscal 2014. With a few exceptions, as of April 3, 2015, we are no longer subject to state, local, or foreign examinations by the tax authorities for years before fiscal 2012. As of April 3, 2015, we had liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $20 million , $5 million of which were classified as other long-term liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The resolution of certain of these tax matters could result in a $15 million reduction in our uncertain tax positions within the next twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview of Liquidity We had $377 million in cash and cash equivalents at April 3, 2015, which were primarily comprised of cash held in investments in several large institutional money market funds and bank deposits. We anticipate our principal sources of liquidity for the next 12 months and beyond will be our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations. We may also borrow up to $500 million under our revolving credit facility. The available borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility is $500 million as of April 3, 2015. Our revolving credit facility is backed by a number of financial institutions, matures in March 2017 and, by its terms, can be accessed on a same-day basis. We anticipate our principal uses of cash for the next 12 months and beyond will be for operating expenses, capital expenditures, stock repurchases, dividends, debt retirement, and acquisitions of businesses. We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. During the first quarter ended April 3, 2015, we paid $28 million to repurchase and retire a principal amount of $29 million of outstanding debt. Included in this amount is $23 million paid in January 2015 to retire a principal amount of $24 million of outstanding debt. 34 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. We anticipate that our operating cash flows, existing cash and cash equivalents, which have no restrictions on withdrawal, and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes cash flow information for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 3, 2015 May 2, 2014 (in millions) Cash used in operating activities of continuing operations $ (42 ) $ (9 ) Cash used in investing activities of continuing operations (2 ) (10 ) Cash used in financing activities of continuing operations (57 ) (233 ) Cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations 13 5 Cash provided by investing activities of discontinued operations 6 Total decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (82 ) $ (247 ) Cash Used in Operating Activities of Continuing Operations. Cash flows used in operating activities of continuing operations increased $33 million for the three months ended April 3, 2015 as compared to the three months ended May 2, 2014 primarily attributable to a net increase in working capital of $36 million which was negatively impacted by the payments for the employer defined contribution match ($30 million) and income tax payments ($55 million). This change was partially offset by the impact on accounts receivable attributable to the decrease in the days sales outstanding to 71 days for the three months ended April 3, 2015 as compared to 76 days for the three months ended May 2, 2014 due to the acceleration of customer invoices driven by improvements to our billing process. Cash Used in Investing Activities of Continuing Operations. We used $2 million in support of investing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended April 3, 2015, primarily to purchase property, plant and equipment. We used $10 million in support of investing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended May 2, 2014, to purchase property, plant and equipment. Cash Used in Financing Activities of Continuing Operations. We used $57 million of cash in support of financing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended April 3, 2015, including the repayment and retirement of debt of $28 million , the payment of dividends of $24 million and $6 million to repurchase shares of our stock primarily related to employee benefit compensation plans. We used $233 million of cash in support of financing activities of continuing operations during the three months ended May 2, 2014, including the payment of dividends of $24 million and $212 million to repurchase shares of our stock primarily from the March 2014 ASR as well as repurchases related to employee benefit compensation plans. Cash Provided by Operating Activities of Discontinued Operations. Cash flows provided by operating activities of discontinued operations increased $8 million for the three months ended April 3, 2015 as compared to the three months ended May 2, 2014, due to an increase of net income of $24 million associated with the tax benefit received during the current quarter for the conversion of a subsidiary to a LLC, partially offset by a decrease in pre-divestiture operations of $13 million for certain components of our business. 35 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Cash Provided by Investing Activities of Discontinued Operations. C ash flows provided by investing activities of discontinued operations were $6 million for the three months ended April 3, 2015 due to cash proceeds received primarily for the sale of a component of our business focused on producing a suite of cybersecurity hardware and associated software and services completed in February 2015. Leidos, Inc.'s Cash Flows. Any differences in cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations for Leidos, Inc. as compared to Leidos are primarily attributable to changes in interest payments (which reduce cash flows from operating activities of Leidos, Inc.) made by Leidos, Inc. on its note with Leidos and changes in excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation (which reduce cash flows from operating activities for Leidos). Leidos, Inc. used cash in investing activities of $30 million during the three months ended April 3, 2015, including repayments on its related party note with Leidos of $43 million and $3 million to purchase property, plant, and equipment, primarily offset by proceeds from the related party note with Leidos of $15 million . Leidos, Inc. used cash in investing activities of $244 million during the three months ended May 2, 2014, including repayments on its related party note with Leidos of $237 million and $10 million to purchase property, plant, and equipment, offset by proceeds from the related party note with Leidos of $3 million . Outstanding Indebtedness In September 2014, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value with respect to all of the $450 million aggregate principal outstanding on our fixed rate 4.45% notes maturing in December 2020 (the Notes). The objective of these instruments is to hedge the Notes against changes in fair value due to the variability in the six month LIBOR rate (the benchmark interest rate), which effectively converted a portion of our debt into floating interest rate debt. Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, we will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate. The counterparties to these agreements are financial institutions. Our outstanding notes payable and long-term debt consisted of the following: Stated interest rate Effective interest rate April 3, 2015 January 30, 2015 (dollars in millions) Leidos Holdings, Inc. senior unsecured notes: $450 million notes, which mature in December 2020 (1) 4.45 % 4.53 % $ 464 $ 466 $300 million notes, which mature in December 2040 5.95 % 6.03 % 228 232 Leidos, Inc. senior unsecured notes: $250 million notes, which mature in July 2032 7.13 % 7.43 % 248 248 $300 million notes, which mature in July 2033 5.50 % 5.85 % 181 182 Capital leases and other notes payable due on various dates through fiscal 2020 0%-3.7% Various 37 38 Total notes payable and long-term debt $ 1,158 $ 1,166 Less current portion 2 2 Total notes payable and long-term debt, net of current portion $ 1,156 $ 1,164 Fair value of notes payable and long-term debt $ 1,148 $ 1,152 (1) As a result of executing the interest rate swap agreements, the carrying value of $464 million includes a fair value adjustment of $15 million attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate, the six-month LIBOR rate, from the inception of the interest rate swap agreements to April 3, 2015. 36 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. During the first quarter ended April 3, 2015, we repurchased in the open market and retired principal amounts of $15 million on our $300 million 5.95% notes issued by Leidos Holdings, Inc. maturing in December 2040, including $11 million repurchased in January 2015, and $14 million on our $300 million 5.50% notes issued by Leidos, Inc. maturing in July 2033, including $13 million repurchased in January 2015. For the first quarter ended April 3, 2015, we recorded an immaterial gain on extinguishment of debt for the Leidos Holdings, Inc. notes and a $1 million gain for the Leidos, Inc. notes as part of the partial repayment of the respective notes. The net combined gain represents the difference between the repurchase price of $28 million for the first quarter ended April 3, 2015, including $23 million in January 2015, and the net carrying amount of the notes repurchased less the write-off of a portion of the unamortized debt discount and deferred financing costs on a pro-rata basis to the reduction of debt. We recorded the gain on extinguishment of debt in "Other (expense) income, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of income. The notes payable outstanding as of April 3, 2015 contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances. We were in compliance with all covenants as of April 3, 2015. Credit Facility. We have a revolving credit facility, which is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Leidos, Inc. which had provided for $750 million in unsecured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined, at our option, based on either LIBOR plus a margin or a defined base rate. During the three months ended October 31, 2014, we amended the credit facility to, among other things, change the ratio of consolidated funded debt to EBITDA that we are required to maintain. In connection with the amendment to the credit facility, we exercised our right under the credit agreement to voluntarily reduce the combined commitment of the lenders from $750 million to $500 million . The maturity date of the facility is March 2017. As of April 3, 2015 and January 30, 2015, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility contains certain customary representations and warranties, as well as certain affirmative and negative covenants. The financial covenants contained in the amended credit facility require that, for a period of four trailing fiscal quarters, we maintain a ratio of consolidated funded debt, including borrowings under this facility, to EBITDA (adjusted for other items as defined in the credit facility) of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 no later than January 29, 2016 and 3.75 to 1.0 thereafter and a ratio of EBITDA (adjusted for certain items as defined in the credit facility) to interest expense of greater than 3.5 to 1.0. We were in compliance with these financial covenants as of April 3, 2015. A failure to meet these financial covenants in the future could eliminate our borrowing capacity under the credit facility. The available borrowing capacity on the credit facility may vary each quarter based on the trailing four quarters of EBITDA. If our trailing four quarters of EBITDA declines below a certain threshold in relation to outstanding debt, the borrowing capacity available under the credit facility is reduced. Our available borrowing capacity based on the results of our trailing four quarters of EBITDA as of April 3, 2015 is $500 million . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain of our unconsolidated joint venture investments. We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to guarantees on contracts with foreign government customers and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds. These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition. Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits and other uncertainties related to our business. For a discussion of these items, see Note 10 - Legal Proceedings and Note 11 - Other Commitments and Contingencies of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended April 3, 2015 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 37 LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC. LEIDOS, INC. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and assumptions have been prepared by management on the basis of the most current reasonably available information. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We have several critical accounting policies, which were described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 30, 2015, that are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective, and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the three months ended April 3, 2015. Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of these items, see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the combined notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for the first quarter ended April 3, 2015 contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Effects of Inflation Approximately 48% of our revenues are derived from cost-reimbursement type contracts, which are generally completed within one year. Bids for long-term FFP and T&M and FP-LOE contracts typically include sufficient provisions for labor and other cost escalations to cover anticipated cost increases over the period of performance. As a result, our revenues and costs have generally both increased commensurate with inflation and net income as a percentage of total revenues has not been significantly affected.