Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read this Annual Report and the documents that we reference in this Annual Report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by applicable law, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein, whether as a result of any new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. In this Annual Report, unless we indicate otherwise or the context otherwise requires, "Lemonade," the Company," "we," "our," "ours" and "us" refer to Lemonade, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Lemonade Insurance Company, Lemonade Insurance Agency, LLC, Metromile, Inc. and Metromile Insurance Company. 2 Table of Contents SUMMARY RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report, when investing in our common stock or warrants. The principal risks and uncertainties affecting our business include the following: We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our success and ability to grow our business depend on retaining and expanding our customer base. If we fail to add new customers or retain current customers, our business, revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The "Lemonade" brand may not become as widely known as incumbents' brands or the brand may become tarnished. Denial of claims or our failure to accurately and timely pay claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our future revenue growth and prospects depend on attaining greater value from each user. Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business and impact our capital needs. Furthermore, reinsurance subjects us to counterparty risk and may not be adequate to protect us against losses, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business performance, implementation of our business model, and our future prospects. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. Our proprietary artificial intelligence algorithms may not operate properly or as we expect them to, which could cause us to write policies we should not write, price those policies inappropriately or overpay claims that are made by our customers. Intense competition in the segments of the insurance industry in which we operate could negatively affect our ability to attain or increase profitability. Failure to maintain our risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain regulatory authority to conduct our business. If we are unable to maintain and implement relationships with third-party service providers, or renew contracts with them on favorable terms, or if those parties are adversely impacted by financial, reputational, regulatory and other risks, our prospects for future growth and our business may be adversely affected. If we are unable to expand our product offerings, or expand into new markets, our prospects for future growth may be adversely affected. The novelty of our business model makes its efficacy unpredictable and susceptible to unintended consequences. We could be forced to modify or eliminate our Giveback, which could undermine our business model and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Regulators may limit our ability to develop or implement our proprietary artificial intelligence algorithms and/or may eliminate or restrict the confidentiality of our proprietary technology, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Existing and new legislation or legal requirements may affect how we communicate with our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business model, financial condition, and results of operations. The insurance business, including the market for renters, homeowners, pet, life and car insurance, is historically cyclical in nature, and we may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates, which could adversely affect our business. We rely on artificial intelligence, telematics, mobile technology, and our digital platforms to collect data that we evaluate in pricing and underwriting our insurance policies, managing claims and customer support, and improving business processes, and any legal or regulatory requirements that prohibit or restrict our ability to collect or use this data could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may require additional capital to grow our business, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. 3 Table of Contents Security incidents or real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our systems, website or app could impair our operations, result in loss of personal customer information, damage our reputation and brand, and harm our business and operating results. We are periodically subject to examinations by our primary state insurance regulators, which could result in adverse examination findings and necessitate remedial actions. If we are unable to underwrite risks accurately and charge competitive yet profitable rates to our customers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our product development cycles are complex and subject to regulatory approval, and we may incur significant expenses before we generate revenues, if any, from new products. Our expansion within the United States and any future international expansion strategy will subject us to additional costs and risks and our plans may not be successful. We are subject to extensive insurance industry regulations. State insurance regulators impose additional reporting requirements regarding enterprise risk on insurance holding company systems, with which we must comply as an insurance holding company. Severe weather events and other catastrophes, including the effects of climate change and global pandemics, are inherently unpredictable and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition. Climate risks, including risks associated with disruptions caused by the transition to a low-carbon economy, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increasing scrutiny, actions and changing expectations from investors, clients, regulators, our employees and other stakeholders with respect to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters may impose additional costs on us, impact our access to capital, or expose us to new or additional risks. The impact of the Customer Investment Agreement with General Catalyst is unpredictable, and the arrangement may not function as expected, and its failure to do so could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We expect our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. In addition, our operating results and operating metrics are subject to seasonality and volatility, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results or in perceptions of our business prospects. We rely on data from our customers and third parties for pricing and underwriting our insurance policies, handling claims and maximizing automation, the unavailability or inaccuracy of which could limit the functionality of our products and disrupt our business. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to limitations in the analytical models used to assess and predict our exposure to catastrophe losses. Our actual incurred losses may be greater than our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. We are subject to assessments and other surcharges from state guaranty funds, and mandatory state insurance facilities, which may affect our ability to achieve profitability. As a public benefit corporation, our focus on a specific public benefit purpose and producing a positive effect for society may negatively impact our financial performance. We conduct certain of our operations in Israel and therefore our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel and the surrounding region. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Lemonade is rebuilding insurance from the ground up on a digital substrate and an innovative business model. By leveraging technology, data, artificial intelligence, contemporary design, and social impact, we believe we are making insurance more delightful, more affordable, and more precise. To that end, we have built a vertically-integrated company with wholly-owned insurance carriers in the United States and Europe, including the UK and the full technology stack to power them. A brief chat with our bot, AI Maya, is all it takes to get covered with renters, homeowners, pet, car or life insurance, and we expect to offer a similar experience for other insurance products over time. Claims are filed by chatting with another bot, AI Jim, who pays claims in as little as two seconds. This breezy experience belies the extraordinary technology that enables it: a state-of-the-art platform that spans marketing to underwriting, customer care to claims processing, finance to regulation. Our architecture melds artificial intelligence with the human kind, and learns from the prodigious data it generates to become ever better at delighting customers and evaluating risk. In addition to digitizing insurance end-to-end, we also reimagined the underlying business model to minimize volatility while maximizing trust and social impact. To lessen the volatility inherent in an industry directly impacted by the weather, we utilize several forms of reinsurance, with the goal of dampening the impact on our gross margin. The result is that excess claims are generally offloaded to reinsurers, while excess premiums can be donated to nonprofits selected by our customers as part of our annual "Giveback". These two ballasts, reinsurance and Giveback, reduce volatility, while creating an aligned, trustful, and values-rich relationship with our customers. Our Business Model At the foundation of our business model is a direct, digital, customer-centric experience that enables rapid growth and strong retention. Our customer-centricity runs deep, and our underlying business model is designed to align interests between us and our customers. This technology-first customer acquisition and retention strategy, combined with our unconflicted business model, results in a highly attractive financial model. We leverage technology in everything we do. AI Maya and our APIs sell 98% of Lemonade's policies. Approximately 95% of homeowners insurance policies in the United States are sold via agents, making a platform that finds, onboards, and digitally serves consumers end-to-end very much an outlier. Our digital substrate enables us to integrate marketing and onboarding with underwriting and claims processing, collecting and deploying data throughout, to constantly drive efficient customer acquisition, enhance the customer experience, and mitigate risk. This approach results in significant, rapid scaling coupled with high customer satisfaction. To align our interests with those of our customers, encourage good behavior and build a long-term relationship based on mutual trust, we endeavor to decouple our financial incentives from variability in claims. Unlike many of our competitors, we work to minimize incentives to deny legitimate claims as we aim to give back, rather than pocket, leftover monies. Our reinsurance contracts serve to lessen volatility in our operating results, as a material portion of claims are borne by our reinsurance partners. See "Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business. In the future, reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business and impact our capital needs. Furthermore, reinsurance subjects us to counterparty risk and may not be adequate to protect us against losses, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. After our customers purchase a policy, we ask them to designate a charitable cause for us to support. As a result, we believe customers are less inclined to embellish claims as they could be hurting a nonprofit they care about, rather than an insurance company they do not. Strong retention rates and a subscription-based model create highly-recurring and naturally-growing revenue streams, and provide visibility into our topline results. Our reinsurance construct, in turn, mitigates the bottom-line volatility inherent in traditional insurance companies, where profits quite literally depend on the weather. With our reinsurance agreements offloading residual claims, and our Giveback policy offloading residual premiums, we have two powerful ballasts that reduce volatility, while creating an aligned, trustful, and values-rich relationship with our customers. 5 Table of Contents This combination of a customer-focused onboarding experience, a customer-aligned business model, and a revenue stream that grows along with our customers' insurance needs, has created a sustainable financial model that we are proud of. Over time, we believe our platform will continue to efficiently acquire new customers and give us the ability to service their growing needs at a lower cost, and with higher satisfaction levels, than the industry at large. Our Technology Data Advantage Our proprietary and entirely integrated technology stack is a key enabler of our strategy and business model. Interactions with our customers across our platform generate a trove of data, which in turn improves interactions with our customers across our platform. AI Maya AI Maya, our playful onboarding and customer experience bot, uses natural language to guide customers through an easy and fun process of joining Lemonade. Maya handles everything from collecting information and personalizing coverage to creating quotes and facilitating payments securely. By asking customers a limited number of high-impact questions, and adapting based on their responses, AI Maya is able to dramatically reduce onboarding times while still collecting and utilizing the data that is central to our continuous improvement. AI Jim AI Jim is our claims bot, and, as of December 31, 2024, 96% of the time, it is AI Jim that will take the first notice of loss from a Lemonade customer without human intervention (and with zero claims overhead, known as loss adjustment expense, or LAE). As of December 31, 2024, roughly 55% of our claims were automated, resulting in instant or near-instant processing from start to finish. AI Jim triages and assigns claims he is not authorized to settle, or ones where he identifies concerns, to human claims experts, analyzing each expert's specialty, qualifications, workload, and schedule to determine to whom to assign the claim. Even where human escalation is needed, AI Jim will have done much of the heavy lifting so our team can settle claims and support customers in their hour of need as quickly and smoothly as possible. The claims process represents the most acute pain point in the insurance experience, and it is where animosity toward the industry is most commonly cultivated. Re-imagining claims for the benefit of the customer, by aligning interests and incentives and by endeavoring to remove friction, hassle, cost, and delays, is therefore a key driver of our leadership in customer satisfaction. CX.AI CX.AI is our bot platform built to understand and resolve customer requests without human intervention. Currently, over half of Lemonades customer inquiries are handled this way. Customers often require assistance pre- or post-purchase, ranging from coverage questions to making changes to their policy, such as adding a spouse, updating coverage amounts, changing payment methods, or adding newly purchased items. CX.AI uses Natural Language Processing to analyze and understand customers' requests, helping them perform a growing set of tasks. Our customer-facing technologies, AI Maya, AI Jim, and CX.AI deliver a superior experience at a fraction of the cost, all the while collecting and utilizing far more data than their human counterparts. A similar construct powers the rest of the Company. Our 'behind the scenes technology' is structured within three proprietary applications: Forensic Graph, Blender, and Cooper. 6 Table of Contents Forensic Graph Forensic Graph utilizes the combined power of behavioral economics, big data, and AI to predict, deter, detect, and block fraud throughout the customer engagement. The FBI estimates that insurance fraud in the United States (excluding health insurance fraud) costs more than $40 billion per year in increased premiums. It is a complicated problem to solve for traditional insurers, mostly due to data paucity. Forensic Graph tracks untold signals and analyzes relationships between things which may appear trivial or invisible to humans, but in which our machine learning uncovers complex multivariate links that have helped us avoid millions of dollars' worth of potential losses. Blender Blender is a robust insurance management platform that we built with customer centricity and exponential efficiency in mind. This is a built-from-scratch, cutting edge backend system, designed as a single, cohesive, and streamlined management tool for our customer experience, underwriting, claims, growth, marketing, finance, and risk teams. When a claims experience specialist logs in to Blender, for example, they instantly see all claims assigned to them by AI Jim. Blender then provides them with instructions for next steps, and when possible, includes coverage determinations, and alerts of suspicious activity. Critically, they will also see an extraordinary amount of information about the users' behavior patterns and their claim, background information, risk indicators, insurance history, and much more. If a vendor is needed, for example, to assess the damage, all appropriate suppliers will pop up in Blender, and can be dispatched to the field, and paid, at the push of a button. Blender brings similar integrated, customer-centric, and focused workflows to the other Lemonade teams as well. Cooper Cooper is our internal bot (we like to think of him as our own Jarvis) who runs important parts of our Company. Cooper handles complex as well as repetitive tasks, from helping our customer experience team handle lengthy, manual processes such as processing paper checks, to automatically running tens of thousands of tests on each release of our software. Cooper continuously analyzes spectrometry imaging beamed from NASA's satellites, identifying wildfires in real time and blocking ads and sales in the affected areas; Cooper collates and formats materials for our regulatory filings; and he even handles most of our engineering task allocation, code deployment, Q&A, and more. Cooper makes our team dramatically more efficient and keeps evolving and learning with time. Forensic Graph, Blender, and Cooper, together with AI Maya, AI Jim, and CX.AI, run atop our Customer Cortex. The Customer Cortex, like a central nervous system, is the place where all data about our customers is transmitted, continuously analyzed, and then used by all six applications. Growth Opportunities Acquire more customers As of December 31, 2024, about 92% of our current home and renters customers said that they were not switching to Lemonade from another carrier. We are well positioned to grow our customer base by continuing to attract first time buyers, an underserved population replenishing every year. Our delightful experience and competitive pricing also attract customers who switch from their existing carriers. Our bot automatically files the necessary paperwork to cancel a customer's old policy, removing what is typically a barrier to switching. As we continue to strengthen brand recognition and execute our marketing strategy, we will look to increase the number of customers migrating to the Lemonade platform. 7 Table of Contents Grow within our existing customer base As our customers move up the economic ladder and through lifecycle events, their insurance needs evolve to higher value products: renters typically acquire more property and frequently upgrade to successively larger homes. Growing households often need car, pet, and life insurance, and additional coverage. These progressions regularly trigger orders of magnitude jumps in insurance premiums, and within states that offer all of Lemonades suite of products - Renters, Home, Car, Pet, and Life - we see a growing proportion of customers with multiple Lemonade policies and see ripe opportunities for the business. For instance, we see an incredible opportunity for Lemonade Car in selling to our existing customers, allowing us to acquire customers at no cost. Of the more than 2.2 million customers we have today, about 1.2 million already have car insurancethat translates to a potential multi-billion dollar opportunity in car premiums at nearly zero acquisition costs. We aim to provide an unmatched user experience in order to retain customers throughout their lifespan, expanding their lifetime value without incurring any incremental costs of acquisition. Expand to new products Our strategy of growing with our customers also lends itself to expanding into new lines of insurance, as lifecycle events trigger the need for additional insurance products. Our regulatory framework, technology stack, and brand are all extensible to new lines of insurance, and we anticipate that these will contribute to our growth in the future. In the last four years, we have added life, pet and car insurance to our growing portfolio of offerings, and have expanded product offerings in France and the UK to include Buildings insurance, and expect to add additional coverage types over time. 8 Table of Contents Expand to new geographies As of December 31, 2024, we are licensed to sell renters, homeowners, pet and/or car insurance policies in 50 states of the United States and Washington, D.C. We operate in 39 of those states and Washington, D.C., which collectively represent approximately 93% of the U.S. population. Our strong brand and unique business model drive rapid growth and allow us to quickly gain share in new markets. We also hold a pan-European license, enabling us to passport into and sell in 30 countries across Europe. Under this license we commenced operations in Germany in 2019, and in the Netherlands and France in 2020. In October 2022, we began selling contents insurance in the United Kingdom (UK) in a cross border basis under the UKs Temporary Permission Regime. We expanded our offerings to include Buildings insurance in both France and the UK in April and July 2024, respectively. We also registered two UK branches: (i) Lemonade Insurance N.V., UK Branch (UK Branch) and its affiliate (ii) Lemonade Agency B.V.. In May and June 2023 respectively, we received a third country branch authorization in the UK for both of these registered branches allowing us to operate on a permanent basis in the UK market. The Lemonade platform is inherently multilingual and agile by design, so that we can efficiently expand into new markets and new product offerings both within the United States and internationally. Our Product Offerings Renters and Homeowners Insurance We offer our products to renters and homeowners in the United States, France, and the UK (in addition to liability insurance for the latter two) and contents and liability insurance in Germany and the Netherlands. The insurance we offer in the United States covers stolen or damaged property, and also covers personal liability, which protects our customers if they are responsible for an accident or damage to another person or their property. In a number of states, we also offer landlord insurance policies to condo and co-op owners who rent out their property less than five times a year. In 2024, we expanded our offerings to include Buildings insurance in the UK and France, giving homeowners throughout France and the UK the ability to purchase extensive coverage for their home and belongings. Both expansions were supported by existing partnerships with Aviva in the UK and BNP Paribas Cardif in France, providing coverage options unique to each locale through our fully digital experience. The full Lemonade experience is available through our iOS and Android apps, as well as through our website. Before a customer purchases one of our policies, we allow the customer to review a summary of their coverage and a sample policy. We also enable the customer to reconfigure their coverage and other policy settings, such as the deductible and start date. After payment via a credit or debit card, we instantly issue the customer their policy documents and send it to them via email. From start to finish, the entire process is completed digitally. In the U.S., our products automatically cover all residents of a household who are related to the customer by marriage, blood, or adoption. In addition to the base coverage we offer for personal property, electronics, furniture, and clothing, our customers can purchase extra coverage to protect against accidental loss, damage, and theft, worldwide, of their jewelry, fine art, and other personal property. Pet Insurance We currently offer pet insurance that covers diagnostics, procedures, medication, accidents or illness. Even our basic pet insurance offering covers blood tests, urinalysis, X-rays, MRIs, lab work, and CT scans. We also offer two optional add-ons to the basic plan, a wellness package and an extended accident and illness package. These provide additional coverage for preventative care costs, including annual exams and vaccines, and recovery treatments, including physical therapy and hydrotherapy. 9 Table of Contents We believe our expansion into pet insurance will allow us to further achieve our long-term strategy of growing with our young customer base by offering new insurance experiences to customers as they progress in their lifecycles. Our leadership in leveraging AI has also allowed us to create a highly-efficient business. Since launching in 2020, our Pet book of business has increased more than 20x (in IFP), dropped 40 points off the loss ratio, and increased efficiencies by 70%, driving down the cost per claim from $65 to $19. About 83% of our pet insurance policies were sold to new customers, and about 6% of those have already added a renters or homeowners policy to their pet policy as of December 31, 2024. Customers that bundle our insurance offerings typically save money. The remaining 17% or so of pet insurance policies were sold to existing customers, whose median premium per customer grew roughly 3.7x with little to no incremental customer acquisition costs. Car We launched car insurance in December 2021 in Illinois, and now offer it in nine states. Lemonade Car insurance covers car accidents, weather damage, theft and vandalism, damage from fire, trees, or animals, glass and windshield repair, liability for bodily injury and property damage, medical expenses, roadside assistance, and reimburses drivers for expenses relating to temporary transportation when a car is being repaired, subject to certain exceptions. In July 2022, we announced the completion of the Metromile Acquisition, a pay-per-mile car insurance provider. As part of the transaction, we acquired a full-stack insurance entity with 49 state licenses plus Washington, D.C., and precision data from more than 500 million car trips. As of December 2024, we have substantially completed the migration of Metromile customers to the Lemonade platform. Life Lemonade also provides life insurance through a partnership arrangement with a third-party carrier. With Lemonades term life insurance offering, individuals can apply online for up to $1.5 million or more in coverage, for a term of 10 to 40 years. Applicants use Lemonades interface to receive an initial quote estimate and then are transferred to our partner to complete their final application. Giveback Feature Giveback is a distinctive feature, whereby each year we aim to donate leftover money to causes our customers care about. After our customers purchase a policy, we ask them to select, from a pre-vetted list, a charitable cause to support with the residual premiums from their policy. Behind the scenes, customers who select the same charitable cause are classified as members of the same "cohort." Once each year we review the loss ratio of each cohort, and provided that we pass the financial ratio tests required by our regulators, we aim to donate the funds remaining, if any, to the charitable cause selected by that cohort. Cohorts with a loss ratio above 40% usually will not receive a Giveback. The Giveback is paid only if payment is authorized by our board of directors in its sole discretion and consistent with its duty of care. See "Risk Factors We could be forced to modify or eliminate our Giveback, which could undermine our business model and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition." Our 2024 Giveback for the 12 month period ended June 30, 2024 amounted to $2,112,608 hitting a milestone of more than $10 million donated since the programs inception in 2017. We calculate our annual Giveback on each anniversary of our primary reinsurance contract. The Giveback is not a contractual obligation to any customer or to any cause, and customers may not take a tax deduction related to the donations. 10 Table of Contents We have informed, and intend to continue to inform, our customers of the amount donated to their selected nonprofit during each Giveback on an annual basis, details of which follow: Giveback Year Number of Nonprofit Organizations Amount 2024 43 $ 2,112,608 2023 58 $ 2,008,847 2022 59 $ 1,873,588 2021 65 $ 2,303,381 2020 34 $ 1,128,109 Nonprofit organizations chosen by customers in 2024 included: Charity Water, New Story, Malala Fund, and many others. Although a new and untested concept, we believe that donating a portion of the money left over after paying claims to nonprofits will discourage fraud and promote greater trust between us and our customers. The Giveback program, and our underlying ethos, has also helped build an honest relationship with our consumers. They trust us, and they also become part of a community; our policyholders are helping others while covering their own valuables, insuring their home, or making sure their pet can afford vital medical care. Our Vertically Integrated Platform Sales and Marketing Our goal is to increase brand awareness and the number of customers migrating to our platform by utilizing a number of marketing channels to aid our direct-to-consumer sales model. Our primary channel of advertisement is the internet, where we promote our ads and services through various media and social media platforms, including Facebook, TikTok, YouTube, and Instagram. We also use the data generated in customer support interactions to constantly refine and improve our marketing campaigns. We conduct drip campaigns via email to follow up with those who have inquired about us or started the on-boarding process. Additionally, we enter into agreements with parties who have access to potential customers, including insurance agencies, apartment building owners, and property management companies. Underwriting Our digital platform enables us to ask fewer questions of our customers but derive many times more data points from each customer interaction than our competitors. Applying machine learning to these data allows us to identify predictive patterns, and these inform our underwriting. Our underwriting process involves collecting this information, classifying and evaluating each individual risk exposure, assessing the impact of the risk on our existing portfolio, and pricing the risk accordingly. When we launched, and had no data of our own, pricing and underwriting were done using easily obtainable industry information. Due to the limitations of these data, customers appeared relatively undifferentiated. Claims Process Powered and driven by our technology, our claims process is conducted via our digital platform, which includes our iOS and Android mobile apps. Claims can be substantiated with receipts, notes of where and when the item was purchased, and in certain cases, police reports. We also ask the customer to record a video explaining their claim to enhance the claim review process. After the customer completes a claim report on our mobile app, the customer is asked to enter bank account information. If the claim is approved, a payment is issued and deposited directly into the customer's account. Claims are often paid or declined through our claims bot, AI Jim, within seconds. While a meaningful portion of simple theft and standard pet claims are paid almost instantly, in many cases the incident is also reviewed by a human before the claim is approved, and certain property damage claims or liability claims may take longer to settle. In an event that requires immediate assistance or temporary housing as a result of fire, ongoing water damage, or structural damage that leaves the customer's home exposed, we contact the customer to assess the situation and provide emergency services, such as water or fire damage cleanup, temporary housing, or a designated specialist. 11 Table of Contents Reinsurance Insurance often produces businesses with highly recurring revenue streams, and hence predictable top lines, but with significant bottom-line volatility, as profits can literally fluctuate with the weather. Earthquakes, hailstorms, wildfires and hurricanes strike with caprice, and can push an otherwise profitable business deep into the red with little or no warning. The first-order consequence of this uncertainty is that insurers often see unwelcome swings in their results. The second-order consequence is that regulators require insurers to keep significant reserves to absorb these swings, making them capital intensive. We set out to architect our business to be at once capital-light and possessed of a predictable and growing gross margin. Through judicious use of "reinsurance," we believe we have largely achieved these goals. Reinsurance is a financial instrument under which one insurer, the "reinsurer," agrees to cover a portion of the claims of another insurer, the "primary insurer," in return for a portion of their premiums. While this description characterizes all reinsurance, implementations come in different flavors, each with its own costs and benefits. We have entered into a range of reinsurance agreements, differing in both duration and terms, which combine, we believe, to deliver maximum capital efficiency, while optimizing our gross margin for both stability and size. Proportional Reinsurance: Maximize Capital Efficiency The low cost of capital for reinsurance companies creates an opportunity to share premiums and maintain our gross margin while dramatically reducing our capital requirements. We maintain proportional reinsurance contracts which cover all of the Companys products and geographies, and transfers, or cedes, a specified percentage of the premium to reinsurers (Proportional Reinsurance Contracts). Under U.S. and E.U. regulatory laws, insurance companies are required to set aside "surplus capital" in accordance with various formulae. These requirements tend to be more onerous for younger companies experiencing rapid growth, such that without reinsurance we would need to reserve as much as 50 cents for every dollar of premiums sold. Our proportional reinsurance structure shifts most of that surplus capital requirement to the reinsurer, reducing these capital requirements significantly. Non-Proportional Reinsurance: Optimize Gross Margin As described above, our Proportional Reinsurance Contracts provide that we cede a significant portion of our premiums to our reinsurers, pushing our capital efficiency to near maximized levels. We have opted to manage the remaining portion of our business with alternative forms of reinsurance, with a view to maximizing profitability. These two remaining goals live in tension with one another: leaving zero "wiggle room" around our fixed fee would guarantee its stability, but would preclude our benefiting from our improving loss ratio. Conversely, any room for improved profitability would also introduce additional volatility into our business. To balance our desire for both growing and stable gross margin, we set out to structure our remaining reinsurance such that variability in our gross margin will be largely contained, though not eliminated entirely. We believe we have achieved this through a combination of reinsurance structures known as "per risk reinsurance" and "facultative reinsurance" (the "Non-Proportional Reinsurance Contracts"). Together, these contracts reduce the maximum amount we would need to pay for any one claim. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes which are inherently unpredictable. To reduce this risk, we also purchase one year property catastrophe excess protection. In 2023, we formed a new risk-bearing entity, Lemonade Re SPC, in the Cayman Islands, where we hold some of our retained risk. We also established a captive cell facility at a Bermuda transformer vehicle that is authorized to write and purchase insurance / reinsurance where we retain most of our windstorm exposure. We believe our reinsurance structure achieves these important goals: making us capital-light, buffering our gross margin from the vicissitudes of claims, and leaving room for our gross margin to grow. 12 Table of Contents Duration Our goal of maximizing predictability of our results, while growing gross margin over time, led us to vary not only the terms of our reinsurance agreements, but their term, too. The Proportional Reinsurance Contracts are issued by a consortium of three reinsurers, including Hannover Ruck SE, MAPFRE Re (Spain), and Swiss Re America (US), each holding an A or better rating from A.M. Best, and each holding a share of the agreements commitments. In addition, we established a Cayman Islands-based captive reinsurer to which Metromile Insurance Company (MIC) cedes approximately 25% of its premiums and losses. Our Non-Proportional Reinsurance Contracts are issued by a collection of reinsurers, each holding an A or better rating from A.M. Best, have a one-year term that expires on June 30, 2025. We also have a reinsurance contract between Lemonade Insurance Company (LIC) and a Bermuda-based segregated cell insurer to cover catastrophe risks over the initial $50,000,000 limit for each loss occurrence, and further subject to a limit of $80,000,000 for each loss occurrence and in aggregate. We estimate that approximately half of our book is reinsured through June 30, 2025, and renewed and renegotiated on an annual basis. We believe that the terms of our reinsurance arrangements provide an appropriate balance between maximizing predictability, and enabling us to capture more margin over time. Investments Our portfolio of investable assets is primarily held in cash, money market funds, and fixed income securities which includes U.S. and non-US government and government agencies obligations, corporate debt securities and asset-backed securities with relatively short durations. We manage the portfolio in accordance with the investment policies and guidelines approved by the board of directors. We have designed our investment policy and objectives to provide a balance between current yield, conservation of capital, and liquidity requirements of our operations setting guidelines that provide for a well-diversified investment portfolio that is compliant with insurance regulations applicable to the states in which we operate. Furthermore, our investment policy prohibits investments in areas such as oil and gas, coal, tobacco, controversial weapons, and non-compliance with the United Nations Global Compact. The policy, which may change from time to time, is approved by the board of directors and is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the policy evolves in response to changes in the financial markets. See "Note 4 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Competition The homeowners, pet, car and, to a lesser extent, the renters insurance industries in which we operate are highly competitive. While we believe we are well positioned to execute our business model and reinvent insurance, we face significant competition from traditional insurance companies such as Allstate, Farmers, Liberty Mutual, State Farm, GEICO, Progressive and Travelers. Although we are tapping into markets that our competitors have struggled to reach, the incumbent insurance companies are larger than us and have significant competitive advantages over us, including increased name recognition, higher financial ratings, greater resources, additional access to capital. In particular, many of these competitors offer consumers the ability to purchase homeowners and multiple other types of insurance products and "bundle" them together, and in certain circumstances, to include an umbrella liability policy for additional coverage at competitive prices. Moreover, as we expand into new lines of business and offer additional products beyond renters and homeowners insurance, pet and car insurance, we may face intense competition from traditional insurance companies that are already established in such markets. Competitors in the pet insurance space include companies such as Nationwide, Embrace, and Trupanion. Competitors in the car insurance space include companies such as Progressive, GEICO and Allstate. We also compete with new market entrants. Competition is based on many factors, including the reputation and experience of the insurer, coverages offered, pricing and other terms and conditions, customer service, relationships with brokers and agents (including ease of doing business, service provided, and commission rates paid), size, and financial strength ratings, among other considerations. We believe we compete favorably across many of these factors, and have developed a digital platform and business model based on artificial intelligence and behavioral economics that we believe will be difficult for incumbent insurance providers to emulate. 13 Table of Contents Intellectual Property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important aspect of our business. We intend to rely upon a combination of trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality procedures, contractual commitments, and other legal rights to establish and protect our intellectual property. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements and invention of work product assignment agreements with our employees and consultants to control access to, and clarify ownership of, our proprietary information. As of December 31, 2024, we have 5 issued patents in the United States. The issued patents generally relate to determining the route and parking location of a vehicle, recording trip data associated with a vehicle, and estimating the usage of a vehicle based on refueling events. The issued patents are expected to expire between September 1, 2035 and January 11, 2036. We do not own any foreign patents and do not have any foreign patent applications pending. As of December 31, 2024, we hold 137 foreign registered trademarks and 10 registered trademarks in the United States, including the Lemonade and Metromile marks, have 4 foreign trademark applications pending and no U.S. trademark applications pending, and hold 3 copyrights in the United States, covering certain videos, texts, photographs, and artwork displayed on our mobile apps and website. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of intellectual property. Intellectual property laws, procedures, and restrictions provide only limited protection and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed, or misappropriated. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology. Certified B Corp Status While not required by Delaware law or the terms of our certificate of incorporation, we have been designated as a Certified B Corp. The term "Certified B Corp" does not refer to a particular form of legal entity, but instead refers to companies that are certified by B Lab, an independent nonprofit organization, as meeting rigorous standards of social and environmental performance, accountability, and transparency. The first step in becoming a Certified B Corp is completing a comprehensive and objective assessment of a business's positive impact on society and the environment. The assessment varies depending on the company's size (number of employees), and sector. The standards in the assessment are created and revised by an independent governing body that determines eligibility to be a Certified B Corp. By completing a set of over 200 questions that reflect impact indicators, best practices, and outcomes, a company receives a composite score on a 200-point scale representative of its overall impact on its employees, customers, communities, and the environment. Representative indicators in the assessment range from payment above a living wage, employee benefits, charitable giving/community service, and use of renewable energy. Recognition as a Certified B Corp currently requires that a company achieve a reviewed assessment score of at least 80. The review process includes a phone review and a random selection of indicators for purposes of verifying documentation. The assessment also includes a corporate structure review and a disclosure questionnaire, including certain practices, fines, and sanctions related to the company or its partners. Our certification also required us to adopt the public benefit corporation structure, a step we have already completed. Once certified, every Certified B Corp must make its assessment score transparent on the independent non-profit organization's website. Acceptance as a Certified B Corp and continued certification is at the sole discretion of the independent nonprofit organization. 14 Table of Contents Human Capital Resources Employees As of December 31, 2024, we had 1,235 employees, 796 of whom were based in the United States and the rest of whom were based outside of the United States, primarily in Israel and the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, certain employees are subject to a collective agreement between the Dutch Association of Insurers and various trade unions. The collective agreement covers wages and terms and conditions of employment. Participation in the collective agreement is mandatory for members of the Dutch Association of Insurers, a leading association of private insurance companies operating in the Netherlands. Beyond this, to our knowledge, none of our employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good and have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. As of December 31, 2024, and based on public information from five competing insurance companies in the United States, we estimate that the number of customers per employee for those companies ranges from approximately 150 to approximately 450 customers per employee. We base this estimate on publicly available information, which we have adjusted for comparability. The calculation of "employees" includes insurance agents and brokers because they are a significant cost component for other insurance companies. In comparison to these competitors, our number of customers per employee was approximately 2,000 as of December 31, 2024. Culture and Values Our status as a Certified B Corp and our commitment to charitable giving, in particular our Giveback program, distinguishes us from our competitors, with the goal of building a trusting relationship between us, our employees, and our customers. We value the power of creativity and encourage and support the sharing of ideas to enhance our business model. Like the industry in which we operate, we understand the importance and value of a community pooling its resources together for the public good. We value inclusivity, respecting differences, and seamless teamwork in every facet of our business. In 2020, we issued 500,000 shares of common stock as the initial endowment of the Lemonade Foundation, a 501(c)(4) social welfare organization established under Arizona law. By contributing approximately 1% of our common stock to the Lemonade Foundation, we hope to promote charitable giving and other community-centric activities with a nexus to our community. In 2023, the Foundation launched a first of its kind blockchain-based insurance product for the worlds most vulnerable farmers. The product was built with a goal of protecting subsistence farmers against the effects of climate change. Thousands of families in Kenya have already been protected by this product, and the Foundation expects to continue scaling this product in the coming years. The product was launched as part of the Lemonade Foundation Crypto Climate Coalition - in cooperation with a number of strategic partners, including Hannover Re, Pula, Chainlink, Avalanche, Etherisc and DAOstack. Human Capital Management We understand that strength lies in the unique backgrounds of our employees and drives the innovation behind our product. We encourage employees to bring their lived experiences, and personal strengths, to develop new ideas, improve customer experiences and shape our brand. We engage with employees for ideas of nonprofits to partner with, or resources to learn more about a social issue, and their candid (and anonymous, should they choose) feedback about our workplace culture and environment. Additionally, our employees organize several education groups across the Company addressing these importantt topics. Health, Safety and Wellness As a B Corp, it is part of our legal mission to advance the health, well-being and equity of employees. To that end, employees have access to health and wellness programs, and healthcare plans. 15 Table of Contents Geographic Scope of Business In the United States, as of December 31, 2024, LIC and MIC are licensed to sell our insurance products in the following states: We also currently hold a pan-European license, which enables us to sell in 30 countries across Europe. Under this license, we commenced operations in Germany in 2019, and in the Netherlands and France in 2020. In October 2022, we began selling contents insurance in the UK on a cross-border basis under the UK's Temporary Permission Regime. During 2023 Lemonade's UK branch establishments received a third country branch authorization from the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority in the UK allowing us to operate in the UK permanently. Seasonality For information regarding the seasonality of our business, please refer to Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report. 16 Table of Contents Regulation of our Business Insurance Regulation Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the states in which we operate. State insurance laws and regulations generally are designed to protect the interests of customers, consumers, and claimants rather than stockholders or other investors. State regulation generally have broad administrative power with respect to all aspects of the insurance business. The regulatory requirements and restrictions include, among others, the following: approval of policy forms and premium rates; approval for intercompany service agreements; advertising, marketing, and trade practices; and restrictions on the ability of our regulated insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us or enter into certain related party transactions Regulation of insurance companies constantly changes as governmental agencies and legislatures react to real or perceived issues. Recently, state insurance regulators have been scrutinizing the industrys practices with respect to the collection and uses of consumer data. Required Licensing Our regulated U.S. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and admitted in the states of New York and Delaware. Under a provision of the California Insurance Code, MIC is deemed commercially domiciled in California, meaning that the California Department of Insurance is entitled to regulate certain aspects of MICs business as if it were actually domiciled in California. LIC, MIC, Lemonade Insurance Agency, LLC, Lemonade Life Insurance Agency, LLC, Lemonade E&S Insurance Agency, LLC and Metromile Insurance Services LLC must apply for and maintain licenses to provide and sell insurance in those jurisdictions in which they transact insurance businesses. Our insurance company and insurance producer subsidiaries are required to adhere to myriad laws and regulatory requirements. The insurance regulators in the states in which our subsidiaries do the business of insurance are empowered to conduct on-site visits and examine the financial affairs and market conduct practices of those entities. Insurance regulators have broad administrative powers to impose monetary penalties and/or restrict or revoke licenses to transact business for violations of applicable laws and regulations. Restrictions on Paying Dividends We are a holding company that transacts a majority of our business through operating subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay dividends to stockholders and meet our debt payment obligations is largely dependent on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Applicable insurance laws restrict the ability of our regulated insurance subsidiaries to declare stockholder dividends. Applicable insurance regulators require insurance companies to maintain specified levels of statutory capital and surplus. Insurance regulators have broad powers to prevent reduction of statutory surplus to inadequate levels, and there is no assurance that dividends of the maximum amounts calculated under any applicable formula would be permitted to be made by our insurance subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory authorities that have jurisdiction over the payment of dividends by our regulated insurance subsidiaries may in the future adopt statutory provisions more restrictive than those currently in effect. 17 Table of Contents Investment Regulation LIC is subject to New Yorks insurance laws and MIC is subject to Delaware and Californias laws regarding the composition of their investments. Those laws generally require diversification of their investment portfolios and limits on the amount of their investments in certain categories. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause non-conforming investments to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and, in some instances, would require those companies to sell those investments. Licensing of Our Employees and Adjusters In most states in which we operate, insurance claims adjusters are required to be licensed and some must fulfill annual continuing education requirements. In most instances, our employees who are negotiating coverage terms are underwriters and are not required to be licensed agents. As of December 31, 2024, 422 employees were required to maintain and did maintain requisite licenses for these activities in most states in which we operate. Enterprise Risk, Cybersecurity, and Other Recent Developments The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has engaged in a concerted effort to strengthen the ability of U.S. state insurance regulators to monitor U.S. insurance holding company groups. Among other things, the NAICs model, when adopted, requires the ultimate controlling person of an insurance company to submit an annual enterprise risk management report that describes the risk that an activity, circumstance, event, or series of events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer will, if not remedied promptly, be likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. Recently, the NAIC has developed model laws requiring annual reports concerning the nature of corporate governance within an insurance holding company. In 2012, the NAIC adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) Model Act (the ORSA Model Act) to require domestic insurers to maintain a risk management framework and establishes a legal requirement for domestic insurers to conduct an ORSA in accordance with the NAICs ORSA Guidance Manual. The ORSA Model Act provides that domestic insurers, or their insurance group, must regularly conduct an ORSA consistent with a process comparable to the ORSA Guidance Manual process. The ORSA Model Act also provides that, no more than once a year, an insurers domiciliary regulator may request that an insurer submit an ORSA summary report, or any combination of reports that together contain the information described in the ORSA Guidance Manual, with respect to the insurer and the insurance group of which it is a member. When the ORSA Model Act is adopted by a particular state, it imposes more extensive filing requirements on parents and affiliates of domestic insurers.Delaware has adopted its version of the ORSA Model Act and New York has implemented portions of the ORSA Model Act. In the course of our business, we collect and maintain confidential and personal information. As a result, we are subject to U.S. federal and state privacy and data security laws and regulations that, among other things, require that we institute and maintain certain policies and procedures to safeguard this information from improper use or disclosure. For example, in 2017, the New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS") adopted a broad cybersecurity regulation that requires financial services institutions to, among other things, implement and maintain a cybersecurity program and a cybersecurity policy that will be monitored and tested periodically, develop controls and technology standards for data protection, meet minimum standards in response to any cybersecurity breach and annually certify their compliance with the regulation. On November 1, 2023, the NYDFS issued a significant amendment to the cybersecurity requirements, mandating covered entities to adopt specific standards and controls to secure sensitive data. The recent amendment significantly expands obligations on entities regulated by NYDFS to report cybersecurity incidents and enhance their consumer data protection and cybersecurity infrastructure. Regulated entities are generally required to comply with the new requirements imposed by the Amendment in phases throughout 2024 and 2025. In 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law, which established standards for data security and for the investigation and notification of insurance commissioners of cybersecurity events involving unauthorized access to, or the misuse of, certain nonpublic information. Many states have enacted the Insurance Data Security Model Law or similar laws, and we expect more states to follow. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, a growing set of privacy regulations have created intense scrutiny regarding Interest-based advertising, or the use of data to draw inferences about a consumers interests and deliver relevant advertising to that consumer, by legislative, regulatory, and self-regulatory bodies, privacy advocates, academics, and commercial interests in the United States and abroad that focus on consumer data protection and privacy. In particular, much of this scrutiny has focused on the use of cookies and other tracking technologies that collect or aggregate information about consumers online browsing and mobile app usage activity. It is essential that we monitor legal requirements and other developments in this area, domestically and globally, maintain a robust privacy and security compliance program, and engage in responsible privacy practices, including providing consumers with notice of the types of data we collect, how we collect it, with whom we share it, how we use that data to provide our solutions, and the applicable choices we offer consumers. California has enacted legislation restricting the use of automated systems to communicate with people online. California enacted a statute making it unlawful for any person to use a bot to communicate with another person in California online with the intent to mislead the other person about its artificial identity for the purpose of knowingly deceiving the person about the content of the communication in order to incentivize a purchase or sale of goods or services in a commercial transaction. The statute provides that a person using a bot will not be liable under the statute if the person discloses that it is a bot. See Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business New legislation or legal requirements may affect how we communicate with our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business model, financial condition, and results of operations. GDPR The General Data Protection Regulation (E.U.) 2016/679 (the E.U. GDPR) applies to our activities to the extent that those activities take place in the context of our establishments in the European Union, and the UK General Data Protection Regulation and Data Protection Act 2018 (collectively, the UK GDPR) applies to our activities to the extent that those activities take place in the context of our establishments in the UK (EU GDPR and UK GDPR together referred to as the GDPR). In addition, the GDPR may apply to our activities that involve the processing of personal data of individuals in the European Union or UK to whom we offer our products or services. The GDPR could also apply to our business if we were to monitor the activities of individuals in the European Union or UK. As we expand into Europe or UK, the compliance obligations under the GDPR (as set out above) will become more significant. See Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We may face particular privacy, data security, and data protection risks as we continue to expand into Europe and the UK. in connection with the GDPR, UK GDPR and other data protection regulations. Federal and State Legislative and Regulatory Changes A number of federal laws affect and apply to the insurance industry, including various privacy laws, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), and the economic and trade sanctions implemented by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. OFAC maintains and enforces economic sanctions against certain foreign countries and groups and prohibits U.S. persons from engaging in certain transactions with certain persons or entities. OFAC has imposed civil penalties on persons, including insurance and reinsurance companies, arising from violations of its economic sanctions program. Credit for Reinsurance State insurance laws permit U.S. insurance companies, as ceding insurers, to take financial statement credit for reinsurance that is ceded, so long as the assuming reinsurer satisfies the states credit for reinsurance laws. There are several different ways in which the credit for reinsurance laws may be satisfied by an assuming reinsurer, including being licensed in the state, being accredited in the state, or maintaining certain types of qualifying collateral. We ensure that LIC and MIC are able to take full financial statement credit for their reinsurance. 19 Table of Contents Insolvency Funds and Associations, Mandatory Pools, and Insurance Facilities Most states require admitted property and casualty insurance companies to become members of insolvency funds or associations which generally protect customers against the insolvency of the admitted insurance companies. Members of the fund or association must contribute to the payment of certain claims made against insolvent insurance companies through annual assessments. The annual assessments required in any one year will vary from state to state, and are subject to various maximum assessments per line of insurance. Risk-Based Capital Risk-based capital laws are designed to assess the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall business operations and to ensure that it has an acceptably low expectation of becoming financially impaired. State insurance regulators use risk-based capital ratios to set capital requirements, considering the size and degree of risk taken by the insurer and taking into account various risk factors including asset risk, credit risk, underwriting risk, and interest rate risk. As the ratio of an insurers total adjusted capital and surplus decreases relative to its risk-based capital, the risk-based capital laws provide for increasing levels of regulatory intervention culminating with mandatory control of the operations of the insurer by the domiciliary insurance department at the so-called mandatory control level. Our regulators in New York, Delaware and California require annual reporting to confirm that LIC and MIC hold in excess of the minimum amount of risk-based capital necessary for their operations. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action. Failure to maintain risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of LIC and MIC to maintain the regulatory approvals necessary to conduct their businesses. As of December 31, 2024, LIC maintained a risk-based capital level of 577% and MIC maintained a risk-based capital level of 525%. IRIS Ratios The NAIC Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) is a collection of analytical tools designed to provide state insurance regulators with an integrated approach to screening and analyzing the financial condition of insurance companies operating in their respective states. IRIS consists of two phases: statistical and analytical. In the statistical phase, the NAIC database generates key financial ratio results based on financial information obtained from insurers annual statutory statements. The statistical phase highlights those insurers that merit the highest priority in the allocation of the state insurance regulators resources. The ratios are not, in themselves, indicative of adverse financial conditions. The analytical phase is a review of the annual statements, financial ratios, and other automated solvency tools. An insurance company may fall out of the usual range for one or more ratios for any number of reasons and a ratio falling outside the prescribed "usual range" is not considered a failing result. Rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. The primary goal of the analytical phase is to identify companies that appear to require immediate regulatory attention. Statutory Accounting Principles Statutory accounting principles (SAP) is a basis of accounting developed by U.S. insurance regulators to monitor and regulate the solvency of insurance companies. In developing SAP, insurance regulators were primarily concerned with evaluating an insurers ability to pay all its current and future obligations to customers. As a result, statutory accounting focuses on conservatively valuing the assets and liabilities of insurers, generally in accordance with standards specified by the insurers domiciliary jurisdiction. Uniform statutory accounting practices are established by the NAIC and generally adopted by regulators in the various U.S. jurisdictions. These accounting principles and related regulations determine, among other things, the amounts our regulated insurance subsidiaries may pay to us as dividends and differ somewhat from U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), which are designed to measure a business on a going-concern basis. GAAP gives consideration to matching of revenue and expenses and, as a result, certain expenses are capitalized when incurred and then amortized over the life of the associated policies. The valuation of assets and liabilities under GAAP is based in part on best estimate assumptions made by the insurer. Stockholders equity represents both amounts currently available and amounts expected to emerge over the life of the business. As a result, the values for assets, liabilities, and equity reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP may be different from those reflected in financial statements prepared under SAP. 20 Table of Contents Rate Regulation Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file rating plans, policy or coverage forms, and other information with the states regulatory authority. In many cases, such rating plans, policy forms, or both must be approved prior to use. The speed with which an insurer can change rates in response to competition or increasing costs depends, in part, on whether the rating laws are (i) prior approval, (ii) file-and-use, or (iii) use-and-file laws. In states having prior approval laws, the regulator must approve a rate before the insurer may use it. In states having file-and-use laws, the insurer does not have to wait for the regulators approval to use a rate, but the rate must be filed with the regulatory authority prior to being used. A use-and-file law requires an insurer to file rates within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using them. Eighteen states, including California and New York, have prior approval laws. Under all three types of rating laws, the regulator has the authority to disapprove a rate filing. An insurers ability to adjust its rates in response to competition or to changing costs is dependent on an insurers ability to demonstrate to the regulator that its rates or proposed rating plan meets the requirements of the rating laws. In those states that significantly restrict an insurers discretion in selecting the business that it wants to underwrite, an insurer can manage its risk of loss by charging a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance. In those states that significantly restrict an insurers ability to charge a rate that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance, the insurer can manage its risk of loss by being more selective in the type of business it underwrites. When a state significantly restricts both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability. From time to time, the personal lines insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators, and special-interest groups to reduce, freeze, or set rates at levels that do not correspond with our analysis of underlying costs and expenses. We expect this kind of pressure to persist. State regulators may interpret existing law or rely on future legislation or regulations to impose new restrictions that adversely affect profitability or growth. We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative and regulatory measures regarding insurance rates. European Regulation Our European insurance entities consist of Lemonade Insurance N.V., Lemonade Agency B.V., their respective UK branch undertakings, and Lemonade B.V.. We also establish and maintain an entity for the provision of intercompany support services; Lemonade Technology B.V.. Lemonade Insurance N.V. is a licensed non-life insurer established in the Netherlands and is subject to key financial rules and regulations including the Second European Solvency Directive 2009/138/EC (as amended, the Solvency II Directive); Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35 (as amended, the Delegated Regulation, together with the Solvency II Directive referred to as the Solvency II Regulations); the implementing technical standards and regulatory technical standards issued by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA); the European Insurance Distribution Directive (Directive (EU) 2016/97, IDD); the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht, DFSA) and the lower rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union ("IFRS EU"); and national regulations, as well as local conduct of business requirements, in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. Currently, the European Commission is preparing for a review of the Solvency II Directive. Lemonade Agency B.V. is subject to the IDD, the DFSA and national regulations, as well as local business conduct requirements and consumer laws, in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. Lemonade B.V. is an insurance holding company within the meaning of article 212 of the Solvency II Directive, as implemented in article 1:1 DFSA. Since 2022, Lemonade has operated in the UK market and is therefore also subject to relevant UK regulation including the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the FSMA), the Insurance Act 2015, and relevant subsidiary regulations. By virtue of its authorisation and oversight by both the Prudential Regulation Authority (the PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) in the UK, Lemonade is also subject to the regulatory requirements of the PRA Rulebook and the FCA Handbook respectively as they pertain to Insurers, distributing agents and financial service providers generally. 21 Table of Contents The Solvency II Regulations The Solvency II Directive, as implemented in the DFSA and other national regulations, such as the German Insurance Supervisory Act (Versicherungsaufsichtsgesetz), prescribes uniform rules for insurers and their activities and services. More specifically, the Solvency II Directive provides rules and regulations relating to, inter alia, Lemonade Insurance N.V.s authorization requirements (including the European passport regime), its minimum own funds and solvency and its governance. Governance requirements include the need to ensure sound business operations, implement mandatory key functions (including Actuarial, Compliance, Internal Audit and Risk) and requirements relating to Lemonade Insurance N.V.s Management Board members, Supervisory Board Members and other key personnel. The Delegated Regulation is promulgated under the Solvency II Directive and provides detailed requirements relating to some of the Solvency II Directives broader requirements. IDD and other conduct of business rules The IDD provides a harmonized regime for insurance distribution activities. It regulates the way insurance products are designed and sold both by insurance intermediaries (e.g. Lemonade Agency B.V.) and directly by insurance undertakings (e.g. Lemonade Insurance N.V.). The rules and regulations set out in the IDD have been implemented in the DFSA. The provisions set out in the IDD mainly relate to standards of product disclosure, promotional materials and product governance and oversight. Local regulations and conduct of business rules implemented in each of the European member states in which both Lemonade Agency B.V. and Lemonade Insurance N.V. do business supplement the requirements set out in the IDD. Financial and other Regulators Lemonade Insurance N.V. is subject to primary supervision by the Dutch Central Bank (De Nederlandsche Bank, DNB) as the supervisory authority of its home member state. In addition, it is subject to supervision by the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financile Markten, AFM). The AFM is the regulator tasked with conduct supervision relating to Lemonade Insurance N.V.s Dutch activities. The German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt fr Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin), as the supervisory authority of a host member state. BaFin is the competent regulator tasked with the supervision of Lemonade Insurance N.V.s compliance with German regulations and conduct requirements. The French Autorit de Contrle Prudentiel et de Rsolution, "ACPR", which is charged with preserving the stability of the financial system and protecting the customers, insurance policyholders, members and beneficiaries of the persons that it supervises, and Organisme pour le Registre des Intermdiaires en Assurance, "ORIAS", an association under the supervision of the Treasury Department in France and in charge of approving insurance intermediaries operating on the French market; the Bank of Englands Prudential Regulation Authority in charge of prudentially regulating and supervising financial services firms operating in the UK; the British Financial Conduct Authority, whose role includes protecting consumers, keeping the industry stable, and promoting healthy competition between financial service providers. Lemonade Agency B.V. is subject to supervision by the AFM. Lemonade B.V., as parent, and Lemonade Insurance N.V., as subsidiary, is an E.U. sub-group within the meaning of Article 213(2)(b) of Solvency II, as implemented in article 3:285 (2) DFSA. Lemonade B.V. is subject to group supervision by DNB under the Solvency II Directive. The relevant EU supervisory body for insurers, EIOPA, has limited supervisory powers in the Netherlands, however it plays an important role in drafting and issuing technical standards and preparing guidance relating to various European directives and regulations. EIOPA aims to accomplish efficient and harmonized financial supervision across the European Union. DNB and AFM employ a risk-based and proportionate approach to supervision, comprising a firm systemic framework, which focuses on the continuous assessment of how firms manage the risks they create and identifying the root causes of risk. DNB regularly pro-actively contacts insurers to discuss matters of strategy, day-to-day operations and the current (and expected future) financial standing of the undertaking, in order to assess what parts of a regulated undertaking, if any, which could pose systemic risks. In addition, DNB monitors operations and business through monthly updates, the submission of Quantitative Reporting Templates, by reviewing annual reports, approving prospective Management Board and Supervisory Board members prior to their appointment and through scheduled and unannounced audits. 22 Table of Contents DNB also regulates the acquisition and increase of control over certain authorized firms, including insurers. Under the DFSA, any person intending to acquire control of, or increase (or decrease) control over, an insurer must first obtain the consent of the DNB. In considering whether to grant or withhold its approval for the acquisition of control, DNB must be satisfied that the acquirer is a fit and proper person and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by their acquisition of, or increase in, control. A person will be treated as increasing (or decreasing) their control over an insurer if the level of their percentage of (indirect) shareholding or voting power in the insurer crosses the 10, 20, 33, 50 percent or 100 percent thresholds. Both Lemonade Insurance N.V. and Lemonade Agency B.V. commenced operations in the UK under the Temporary Permission Regime in accordance with which certain European Economic Area based firms may continue to operate in the UK for a limited period following the UK's departure from the European Union. During 2023, the UK branch establishments of Lemonade Insurance N.V., and Lemonade Agency B.V. (UK branch establishments) received a third country branch authorization in the UK allowing both companies to continue to operate in the UK market on a permanent basis. Lemonade Agency B.V., UK Branch (BR024862) is the UK establishment of Lemonade Agency B.V.. Lemonade Insurance N.V., UK branch (BR025196), is the UK establishment of Lemonade Insurance N.V.. See Required Licensing section below for a description. Enforcement DNB and AFM expect firms to avoid actions that jeopardize compliance with their statutory objectives and applicable rules and regulations and have extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of a regulated firm. When DNB is concerned that an insurer may present a risk, this may lead to negative consequences, including the requirement to maintain a higher level of regulatory capital (via capital add-ons under the Solvency II Directive) to match the higher perceived risks and enforcement action where the risks identified breach applicable rules and regulations. In case of a breach of our license requirements or obligations arising from the applicable rules and regulations, although both DNB and AFM must apply the principle of proportionality in all of their actions, the regulators have a large amount of discretion in determining what measures to impose, if any, in order to address, remedy, or sanction the breach. DNB and the AFM have a large amount of enforcement tools at their disposal to sanction breaches of applicable rules and regulations, including public formal warnings, orders to adopt a certain course of conduct, incremental penalties, and administrative fines. In addition, breaches may lead to a revocation of an undertaking license and, in the case of insurers, where the breach relates to material prudential shortcomings, DNB may impose emergency measures, including the appointment of an administrator or the imposition of measures aimed at winding-up the undertaking). Required Licensing Our subsidiary Lemonade Insurance N.V. is licensed and supervised by the insurance supervision division of DNB as a Solvency II non-life insurance company. DNB, as the supervisory authority of its home member state, has permitted us to sell in other European countries, such as Germany and France, on a Freedom of Services basis. In general, in addition to continuing to meet the threshold conditions to authorization, Lemonade Insurance N.V. and Lemonade Agency B.V. are obliged to comply with European regulations, European directives (in as far as these directives have direct effect in the Netherlands or other European member states in which our subsidiaries do business), the DFSA and the lower regulations set out thereunder, and other national regulations, all of which contain detailed rules covering, among other things, systems and controls, conduct of business, and prudential (i.e. capital and solvency) requirements. Lemonade Insurance N.V. launched its first product in the UK market in October 2022, and operates in the UK through its registered branch establishment, Lemonade Insurance N.V., UK Branch (BR025196) which received third-country branch authorization from the Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK in May 2023. This allows the company to operate in the UK market permanently. Lemonade Insurance N.V. is licensed as an insurance company by De Nederlandsche Bank in the Netherlands (R162036). Authorized by the Prudential Regulation Authority. Subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority (FRN 846181). Lemonade Agency B.V. commenced operations in the UK under the TPR as described above, and received third country branch authorisation through its registered branch establishment Lemonade Agency B.V., UK Branch (BR024862) in 2023. Lemonade Agency B.V., UK Branch is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FRN: 989294). 23 Table of Contents Additional Information Our internet website address is www.lemonade.com. In addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this Annual Report, information about us can be found on our website. Our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this Annual Report. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Additionally the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. The address of the SECs website is www.sec.gov. 24 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report, before deciding to invest in our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or uncertainties. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have not been profitable since our inception in 2015 and had an accumulated deficit of $1,298.8 million and $1,096.6 million as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. We incurred net losses of $202.2 million and $236.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. We expect to make significant investments to further develop and expand our business. In particular, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on marketing and advertising as part of our strategy to increase our customer base. The marketing and advertising expenses that we incur are typically expensed immediately while any revenues that they generate are recognized ratably over the 12-month term of each insurance policy that we write. This timing difference can therefore result in expenses that exceed the related revenue generated in any given year. As a public company, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We expect that our net loss will increase in the near term as we continue to make such investments to grow our business. Despite these investments, we may not succeed in increasing our revenue on the timeline that we expect or in an amount sufficient to lower our net loss and ultimately become profitable. Moreover, if our revenue declines, we may not be able to reduce costs in a timely manner because many of our costs are fixed in the short term. In addition, if we reduce variable costs to respond to losses, this may limit our ability to sign up new customers and grow our revenues. Accordingly, we may not achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. Our success and ability to grow our business depend on retaining and expanding our customer base. If we fail to add new customers or retain current customers, our business, revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We have experienced significant customer growth since we commenced operations; however, we may not be able to maintain this growth and thus, our customer base could stop growing or even shrink over time. Our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers depends, in large part, on our ability to continue to be perceived as providing delightful and superior insurance-buying and claims- filing customer experiences, competitive pricing, and adequate insurance coverage. In order to maintain this perception, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing and advertising expenses, costs related to improving our service, and lower margins in order to attract new customers and retain existing customers. If we fail to remain competitive on customer experience, pricing, and insurance coverage options, our ability to grow our business and generate revenue by attracting and retaining customers may be adversely affected. There are many factors that could negatively affect our ability to grow our customer base, including if: we fail to effectively use search engines, social media platforms, digital app stores, content- based online advertising, and other online sources for generating traffic to our website and our online app; potential customers in a particular marketplace or generally do not meet our underwriting guidelines; our competitors mimic our digital platform, causing current and potential customers to purchase their insurance products instead of our products; our digital platform experiences disruptions; we experience unfavorable shifts in customer perception of our chat-bots; we suffer reputational harm to our brand resulting from negative publicity, whether accurate or inaccurate; we fail to expand geographically; we fail to offer new and competitive products; customers have difficulty installing, updating or otherwise accessing our app or website on mobile devices or web browsers as a result of actions by us or third parties; technical or other problems frustrate the customer experience, particularly if those problems prevent us from generating quotes or paying claims in a fast and reliable manner; or 25 Table of Contents we are unable to address customer concerns regarding the content, privacy, and security of our digital platform. Our inability to overcome these challenges could impair our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, operating results and financial condition. The "Lemonade" brand may not become as widely known as incumbents' brands or the brand may become tarnished. Many of our competitors have brands that are well recognized. As a relatively new entrant into the insurance market, we spend considerable money and other resources to create brand awareness and build our reputation. We may not be able to build brand awareness, and our efforts at building, maintaining and enhancing our reputation could fail. Complaints or negative publicity about our business practices, our marketing and advertising campaigns, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the integrity of the data that we provide to consumers or business partners, data privacy and security issues, and other aspects of our business, whether valid or not, could diminish confidence in our brand, which could adversely affect our reputation and business. As we expand our product offerings and enter new markets, we need to establish our reputation with new customers, and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these newer markets could be adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain or enhance our reputation, and failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brand cost-effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Denial of claims or our failure to accurately and timely pay claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We must accurately and timely evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies. Many factors affect our ability to pay claims accurately and timely, including the efficacy of our artificial intelligence claims processing, the training and experience of our claims adjusters, including our third-party claims administrators, and our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support our claims functions. The speed by which our artificial intelligence technology allows us to process and pay claims is a differentiating factor for our business and an increase in the average time to process claims could undermine our reputation and position in the insurance marketplace. Any failure to pay claims accurately or timely could also lead to regulatory and administrative actions or material litigation, or result in damage to our reputation, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. If our claims adjusters or third party claims administrators are unable to effectively process our volume of non-automated claims, our ability to grow our business while maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction could be compromised, which in turn, could adversely affect our operating margins. Our future revenue growth and prospects depend on attaining greater value from each customer. Our future growth and prospects depend on our ability to increase the premium per customer, as described in the section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Currently, the large majority of our customers are renters. In order to increase our premium per customer, we must increase the number of higher-priced customers, such as homeowners, and the proportion of higher-priced customers relative to lower-priced customers, such as renters. Our business model is premised on the expectation that a significant number of our customers that are renters will continue to retain coverage with us as they move from being renters to homeowners. Currently, however, given our limited operating history, substantially all of our current homeowner users are new customers who were not previously renters with us. The purchase of a home is a significant event in a person's life and we cannot provide assurances that we will succeed in retaining existing customers that are renters as they become homeowners. This may occur for a variety of factors. For example, at the time a renter purchases a home, he or she is exposed to a large number of service providers who have direct and personal access to that renter in a way that we do not. Those service providers may have, and share, their own views and preferences for homeowners insurance. Furthermore, given the expenditure involved in a home purchasing decision, differences in price between our insurance product and that of our competitors may appear less significant. In addition, there may even be a perception that a higher priced policy from a traditional brand name insurer may be of higher quality when coupled with the size and longevity of such traditional insurers. A failure to 26 Table of Contents retain renters as they transition to homeowner status may materially adversely impact our future growth and prospects. Moreover, we also sell homeowner policies directly, or indirectly through independent insurance agencies, to customers who did not previously have a renters policy with us. To the extent we are unable to sell homeowner policies directly or via our insurance agency partners to new customers either now or in the future, our ability to increase our premium per customer would be negatively impacted, which could materially adversely impact our future growth and prospects. The novelty of our business model makes its efficacy unpredictable and susceptible to unintended consequences. Our business model is predicated on behavioral economics. Under our model, excess premiums can be donated to nonprofits selected by our customers as part of our annual 'Giveback'. We designed our business model to attract customers, align our incentives with those customers, discourage fraudulent claims and allow us to offer competitive pricing, but it may not operate as intended over time and on a larger scale. For example: Our commitment to charitable giving through our Giveback program may not align our interests with those of our customers or prospective customers to the extent anticipated. Moreover, our commitment to charitable giving may not resonate with our existing customers or may fail to attract new customers. The amount contributed to nonprofits may be viewed as insufficient by existing or new customers. Furthermore, there may be insufficient money remaining after paying claims to make charitable contributions. See "Business Our Vertically-Integrated Platform Reinsurance." False claims or higher than expected claims could cause reinsurers to charge higher rates, refuse to provide reinsurance or provide reinsurance on less favorable terms. The control procedures we have implemented to detect false claims, may not prevent such claims from being filed or prevent a sufficient number of them from being paid out. The failure of our business model to function as intended could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We could be forced to modify or eliminate our Giveback, which could undermine our business model and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Giveback is a cornerstone of our business model that, when coupled with our fixed fee, works to align our interests with those of our customers, which we believe builds trust, minimizes fraud, and keeps our costs down. If a state, federal authority or foreign jurisdiction was to find that the Giveback was a rebate rather than a charitable contribution, or impermissible on other grounds, we may not be able to donate the residual value of our customers' premiums to nonprofits in certain, or any, of the states or foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. If even one regulator were to disallow the Giveback, it could force us to abandon the Giveback in part or entirely, either of which could undermine the behavioral economics foundation on which our business model is based, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our brand, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we could modify, reduce or eliminate the Giveback at our discretion for a variety of reasons. LIC's board of directors may determine the amount and distribution of the Giveback by taking into consideration various factors such as the current goodwill and reputation of the nonprofit selected by customers, the amount of funds available for distribution by each cohort, the reasonableness of such contribution, and general shareholders' interests, such as the proposed amount and distribution of the Giveback against factors like overall shareholder returns, our financial and operating performance, and our social responsibility and the benefits shareholders and their communities receive from proposed contributions. Before determining the amount of the Giveback, LICs board of directors may also analyze the extent of our reinsurance coverage and management's expectations with respect to such reinsurance coverage for the upcoming fiscal year, particularly as it relates to the amount of capital and surplus required to continue to operate successfully. If after weighing any of these factors, LIC's board of directors were to reduce or eliminate the Giveback, our business model would be impacted, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our brand, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business performance, implementation of our business model, and our future prospects. We launched our business to sell renters and homeowners insurance in late 2016 and have a limited operating history. Due to our limited operating history and the rapid growth we have experienced since we began operations, our operating results are hard to predict, and our historical results may not be indicative of, or comparable to, our future results. In addition, we have limited data to validate key aspects of our business model. For example, our customer base is made up primarily of renters and we have very few instances of those renters becoming homeowners, a key element of our business model. It is also difficult for us to track that data and the data that we collect may not provide useful measures for evaluating our business model. Our inability to adequately assess our performance and growth could have a material adverse effect on our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. Our revenue grew from $256.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, $429.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, to $526.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. Our rapid growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. Our organizational structure has become and will continue to become more complex to the extent that we add staff, and we will continue to enhance our operational, financial and management controls as well as our reporting systems and procedures. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas without undermining our corporate culture of rapid innovation, teamwork and attention to the insurance buying experience for the customer. If we cannot manage our growth effectively to maintain the quality and efficiency of our customers' insurance- buying experience, as well as their experience as ongoing customers, our business could be harmed as a result, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Intense competition in the segments of the insurance industry in which we operate could negatively affect our ability to attain or increase profitability. The renters, homeowners (including buildings and content), pet, life and car insurance market is highly competitive with carriers competing through product coverage, reputation, financial strength, advertising, price, customer service and distribution. While we face limited direct competition from traditional insurance companies for first-time renters, we face significant competition from traditional insurance companies for homeowners, car and life. Competitors include companies such as Allstate, Farmers, Liberty Mutual, State Farm, GEICO, Progressive and Travelers. These companies are larger than us and have significant competitive advantages over us, including increased name recognition, higher financial ratings, greater resources, and additional access to capital. Our future growth will depend in large part on our ability to grow our homeowners insurance business in which traditional insurance companies retain certain advantages. In particular, unlike us, many of these competitors offer consumers the ability to purchase renters, homeowners and multiple other types of insurance coverage and "bundle" them together into one policy and, in certain circumstances, include an umbrella liability policy for additional coverage at competitive prices. Moreover, as we expand into new lines of business and offer additional products beyond renters, homeowners, pet, life and car insurance, we could face intense competition from insurance companies that are already established in such markets. Competitors in the pet insurance space include companies such as Nationwide, Embrace, and Trupanion. Competitors in the car insurance space include companies such as Progressive, GEICO and Allstate. Additionally, any new insurance products could take months to be approved by regulatory authorities, or may not be approved at all. We currently face competition by technology companies in the markets in which we operate. There are various technology companies that have recently started operating in adjacent insurance categories that may in the future offer renters, homeowners, pet, life and car insurance products. Technology companies may in the future begin operating and offering products at better and more competitive pricing than us, which could cause our results of operations and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, traditional insurance companies may seek to adapt their businesses to sell insurance and process claims using technology similar to ours. Given their size, resources, and other competitive advantages, they may be able to erode any market advantage we may currently have over them. 28 Table of Contents Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business and impact our capital needs. Furthermore, reinsurance subjects us to counterparty risk and may not be adequate to protect us against losses, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Reinsurance is a contract by which an insurer, which may be referred to as the ceding insurer, agrees with a second insurer, called a reinsurer, that the reinsurer will cover a portion of the losses incurred by the ceding insurer in the event a claim is made under a policy issued by the ceding insurer, in exchange for a premium. Our insurance subsidiaries, LIC and MIC, obtain reinsurance to help manage their exposure to property and casualty insurance risks. Although our reinsurance counterparties are liable to us according to the terms of the reinsurance policies, we remain primarily liable to our policyholders as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. As a result, reinsurance does not eliminate the obligation of our insurance subsidiaries to pay all claims, and we are subject to the risk that one or more of our reinsurers will be unable or unwilling to honor its obligations, that the reinsurers will not pay in a timely fashion, or that our losses are so large that they exceed the limits inherent in our reinsurance contracts, limiting recovery. Reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time that they are called upon to pay amounts due, which may not occur for many years, in which case we may have no legal ability to recover what is due to us under our agreement with such reinsurer. Any disputes with reinsurers regarding coverage under reinsurance contracts could be time consuming, costly, and uncertain of success. Under the Proportional Reinsurance Contracts, which span all of our products and geographies, we transfer, or cede, a specified percentage of our premiums to our reinsurers. In exchange, these reinsurers pay us a ceding commission on all premiums ceded to the Reinsurers, in addition to funding the corresponding claims, subject to certain limitations. We have also opted to manage the remaining portion of our business with alternative forms of reinsurance through the Non-Proportional Reinsurance Contracts. Our business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes which are inherently unpredictable. On July 1, 2024, we entered into a one year property catastrophe excess of loss treaty. If we are unable to renegotiate, at the same or more favorable terms, the Proportional Reinsurance Contracts or the Non-Proportional Reinsurance Contracts when each expires, such changes could have an adverse impact on our business model. We may change the structure of our reinsurance arrangement in the future, which may impact our overall risk profile and financial and capital condition. We may be unable to negotiate a new reinsurance contract to provide continuous coverage or negotiate reinsurance on the same terms and rates as are currently available, as such availability depends in part on factors outside of our control. A new contract may not provide sufficient reinsurance protection. Market forces and external factors, such as significant losses from hurricanes or terrorist attacks or an increase in capital requirements, impact the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance, extend our reinsurance contracts or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient at acceptable prices, we would have to either accept an increase in our exposure, reduce our insurance writings or develop or seek other alternatives. The unavailability of acceptable reinsurance cover would have an adverse impact on our business model, which depends on reinsurance companies to absorb any unfavorable variance from the level of losses anticipated at underwriting. If we are unable to obtain adequate reinsurance at reasonable rates, we would have to increase our risk exposure or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, each of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business volume and profitability. Alternatively, we could elect to pay higher than reasonable rates for reinsurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect upon our profitability until policy premium rates could be raised, in most cases subject to approval by state regulators, to offset this additional cost. Moreover, if adequate reinsurance cannot be obtained or maintained at reasonable rates, we may be unable to make contributions to the nonprofit organizations selected by our customers as part of our Giveback, which could erode customer trust, damage our brand, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Failure to maintain our risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain regulatory authority to conduct our business. We must have sufficient capital to comply with insurance regulatory requirements and maintain authority to conduct our business. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has developed a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital of U.S.-based insurers, known as risk-based capital that all states have adopted. This system establishes the minimum amount of capital necessary for an insurance company to support its overall business operations. It identifies insurers, including property-casualty insurers, that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at certain inherent risks of each insurer's assets and liabilities and its mix of net written premiums. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Moreover, as a new entrant to the insurance industry, we may face additional capital requirements as compared to those of our larger and more established competitors. Failure to maintain adequate risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain regulatory authority to conduct its business. See "Regulation Risk-Based Capital." If we are unable to maintain and implement relationships with third-party service providers, or renew contracts with them on favorable terms, or if those parties are adversely impacted by financial, reputational, regulatory and other risks, our prospects for future growth and our business may be adversely affected. Some parts of our business depend on our relationships and contractual arrangements with third parties. If our third parties terminate business arrangements with us, or renew contracts on terms less favorable to us, we may fail to meet our business objectives and targets, and our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. For example, our life insurance product is offered through an arrangement with a life insurance provider. In these relationships, we rely on the third-partys internal controls, to manage the product. Our monitoring efforts of the third party providers and other service providers may not be adequate, or our providers could exceed their authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us, which could result in operational disruption, reputational damage and regulatory intervention and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Furthermore, these third parties are subject to many of the same risks that we face, including those related to cybersecurity and fraudulent claims. These parties also experience intense competition in the segments of the insurance industry in which they operate. They may be acquired or form alliances with our competitors thereby reducing or eliminating their business with us. If we are unsuccessful in our ability to maintain successful relationships with these third-party service providers and implement our arrangements with them for any of these reasons, our business may be adversely affected. If we are unable to expand our product offerings, or expand into new markets, our prospects for future growth may be adversely affected. Our ability to attract and retain customers and therefore increase our revenue depends on our ability to successfully expand our product offerings into new markets. In 2020, we launched pet insurance and in 2021 we launched our life and car insurance products to add to our renters and homeowners insurance offerings, and in 2024, we expanded our offerings in the UK and France to include Buildings insurance. Our success in the renters, homeowners, pet, life and car insurance markets depend on our deep understanding of each market and associated business challenges faced by participants in them. Developing this level of understanding of the newer markets we have entered may require substantial investments of time and resources, and we may not be successful. In addition to the need for substantial resources, insurance regulation could limit our ability to introduce new product offerings or the states in which we offer them. Additionally, any new insurance products could take months to be approved by regulatory authorities, or may not be approved at all. If our products are not competitive in current markets or we do not penetrate new markets successfully, our revenue may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our decision to expand our insurance product offerings beyond the renters, homeowners, pet, life and car insurance market would subject us to additional regulatory requirements specific to such insurance products, which, in turn, could require us to incur additional costs or devote additional resources to compliance. 30 Table of Contents Our proprietary artificial intelligence algorithms may not operate properly or as we expect them to, which could cause us to write policies we should not write, price those policies inappropriately or overpay claims that are made by our customers. We utilize the data gathered from the insurance application process to determine whether or not to write a particular policy and, if so, how to price that particular policy. Similarly, we use proprietary artificial intelligence algorithms to process many of our claims. The data that we gather through our interactions with our customers is evaluated and curated by proprietary artificial intelligence algorithms. The continuous development, maintenance and operation of our deep-learning backend data analytics engine is expensive and complex, and may involve unforeseen difficulties including material performance problems, undetected defects or errors, for example, with new capabilities incorporating artificial intelligence. We may encounter technical obstacles, and it is possible that we may discover additional problems that prevent our proprietary algorithms from operating properly. If our data analytics do not function reliably, we may incorrectly price insurance products for our customers or incorrectly pay or deny claims made by our customers. Either of these situations could result in customer dissatisfaction with us, which could cause customers to cancel their insurance policies with us, prevent prospective customers from obtaining new insurance policies, or cause us to underprice policies or overpay claims. Such situations may also result in fines and monetary penalties as well as regulatory orders requiring remedial, injunctive, or other corrective action. Regulators may limit our ability to develop or implement our proprietary artificial intelligence algorithms and/or may eliminate or restrict the confidentiality of our proprietary technology, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement our proprietary artificial intelligence algorithms, and to maintain the confidentiality of this technology. Changes to existing regulations, their interpretation or implementation, or new regulations could impede our use of this technology, or require that we disclose our proprietary technology to our competitors, which could impair our competitive position and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Existing and new legislation or legal requirements may affect how we communicate with our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business model, financial condition, and results of operations. State and federal lawmakers, and insurance regulators are focusing upon the use of AI broadly, including concerns about transparency, deception, and fairness in particular. Changes in laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, specific to the use of AI, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business. In addition, our business and operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state, and local consumer protection laws, including laws which place restrictions on the use of automated and non-automated tools and technologies to communicate with wireless telephone subscribers or consumers generally. For example, in the United States, the CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future commercial emails from the sender. In addition, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) places restrictions on making outbound calls, faxes, and SMS text messages to consumers using certain types of automated or prerecorded technology or that involve marketing. Among other restrictions under the TCPA, with respect to phone calls and text messages, prior express consent, and in the case of certain marketing messages, prior express written consent, of consumers may be required before sending certain outbound calls or text messages. We could face allegations that we have violated the TCPA, CAN-SPAM Act, or similar laws, rules and regulations, and even if these allegations are without merit, we could face regulatory inquiries, lawsuits and related defense costs, liability (such as fines, damages, consent decrees, and injunctions), harm to our reputation and other losses that could harm our business. 31 Table of Contents A California law, effective as of July 2019, makes it unlawful for any person to use a bot to communicate with a person in California online with the intent to mislead the other person about its artificial identity for the purpose of knowingly deceiving the person about the content of the communication in order to incentivize a purchase of goods or services in a commercial transaction. Although we have taken steps to mitigate our liability for violations of this and other laws restricting the use of electronic communication tools, no assurance can be given that we will not be exposed to civil litigation or regulatory enforcement. Further, to the extent that any changes in law or regulation further restrict the ways in which we communicate with prospective or current customers before or during onboarding, customer care, or claims management, these restrictions could result in a material reduction in our customer acquisition and retention, reducing the growth prospects of our business, and adversely affecting our financial condition and future cash flows. We rely on artificial intelligence, telematics, mobile technology, and our digital platforms to collect data that we evaluate in pricing and underwriting our insurance policies, managing claims and customer support, and improving business processes, and any legal or regulatory requirements that prohibit or restrict our ability to collect or use this data could thus materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We use artificial intelligence, telematics, mobile technology, and our digital platforms to collect data that we evaluate in pricing and underwriting certain of our insurance policies, managing claims and customer support, and improving business processes. If federal, state or international regulators or courts were to determine that the type of data we collect, the process we use for collecting this data or how we use it unfairly discriminates against or otherwise violates the rights of some groups of people, laws and regulations could be interpreted or implemented to prohibit or restrict our ability to collect or use this data. State legislatures and insurance regulators have also shown interest in the use of external data and artificial intelligence in insurance practices, including underwriting, marketing and claims practices. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) adopted its Artificial Intelligence Principles in August 2020, a model bulletin titled Use of Artificial Intelligence Systems by Insurers, and a number of states have had legislative or regulatory initiatives relating to the use of external data and artificial intelligence in the insurance industry, including bulletins issued in 2022 by the California and Connecticut Departments of Insurance, and more recently in July 2024 by the New York State Department of Financial Services, advising insurers of their obligations related to unfair discrimination when using big data and artificial intelligence. Due to Proposition 103 in California, our largest market for car insurance, we are currently limited in our ability to use telematics data beyond miles-driven to underwrite insurance, including data on how the car is driven. This could hinder our ability to accurately assess the risks that we underwrite in other states if they were to pass similar laws or regulations. In three other states where we currently operate, we do not use behavioral telematics data because it is either (a) permitted, but we opted out given uncertainty regarding the impact such data would have on pricing, or (b) it is voluntary (meaning the policyholder has to opt in). As we aim to be a fully national provider of insurance across 50 states and Washington, D.C. in the future, we will need to comply with the rules and regulations of each market. At this time, we do not know which of our target markets prohibit, permit with conditions, or fully permit the use of behavioral telematics to set premiums, and if permitted, if this will be of benefit to us in pricing. While we are currently in discussions with regulators to allow the use of telematics to a greater extent to underwrite and price insurance policies, we cannot predict the outcome of these discussions, and there can be no assurance that state regulators will revise regulations accordingly, if at all, nor that current permissive states will further restrict the use of such data. Although there is currently limited federal and state legislation outside of California restricting our ability to collect driving behavior data, private organizations are implementing principles and guidelines to protect driver privacy. Some state regulators have expressed interest in the use of external data sources, algorithms and/or predictive models in insurance underwriting or rating. Specifically, regulators have raised questions about the potential for unfair discrimination, disparate impact, and lack of transparency associated with the use of external consumer data. Regulators may also require us to disclose the external data we use, algorithms and/or predictive matters prior to approving our underwriting models and rates. Such disclosures could put our intellectual property at risk. 32 Table of Contents Additionally, existing laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA, collectively CCPA), future laws, and evolving attitudes about privacy protection may impair our ability to collect, use, and maintain data points of sufficient type or quantity to develop and train our artificial intelligence algorithms. If such laws or regulations were enacted federally or in a large number of states in which we operate, it could impact the integrity and quality of our pricing and underwriting processes. There is also increasing focus on regulating the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in Europe. In 2023, the European Union legislators reached a political agreement on the EU Artificial Intelligence Act (EU AI Act), which establishes a comprehensive, risk-based governance framework for artificial intelligence in the EU market. The EU AI Act became effective on August 1, 2024, and the majority of the substantive requirements will apply by 2026. The EU AI Act will apply to companies like ours that develop, use and/ or provide artificial intelligence in the EU and includes requirements around transparency, conformity assessments and monitoring, risk assessments, human oversight, security, accuracy, general purpose artificial intelligence and foundation models, and proposes fines for breach of up to 7% of worldwide annual turnover for the most serious compliance failures. In addition, the revised EU Product Liability Directive came into force in December 2024, to be implemented into EU Member State national law by December 2026. This Directive extends the EUs existing strict product liability regime to artificial intelligence technologies and artificial intelligence -enabled products and facilitates civil claims in respect of harm caused by artificial intelligence and there are further legislative proposals to regulate AI. With these developments, legislation relating to artificial intelligence including the EU AI Act has a material impact on the way artificial intelligence is regulated in the EU, and together with developing guidance and/ or decisions in this area, is likely to affect our use of artificial intelligence and our ability to provide and to improve our services, require additional compliance measures and changes to our operations and processes, result in increased compliance costs and potential increases in civil claims against us, and could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. We depend on search engines, social media platforms, digital app stores, content-based online advertising and other online sources to attract consumers to our website and our online app, which may be affected by third-party interference beyond our control. Our success depends on our ability to attract consumers to our website and our online app and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. We depend, in large part, on search engines, social media platforms, digital app stores, content-based online advertising and other online sources for traffic to our website and our online app. With respect to search engines, we are included in search results as a result of both paid search listings, where we purchase specific search terms that result in the inclusion of our advertisement, and free search listings, which depend on algorithms used by search engines. For paid search listings, if one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, we could lose consumers and traffic to our website could decrease, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For free search listings, if search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, our websites may appear less prominently or not at all in search results, which could result in reduced traffic to our websites. Our ability to maintain and increase the number of consumers directed to our products from digital platforms is not within our control. Search engines, social media platforms and other online sources often revise their algorithms and introduce new advertising products. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for traffic to our website and our online app were to modify its general methodology for how it displays our advertisements or keyword search results, resulting in fewer consumers clicking through to our website and our online app, our business and operating results are likely to suffer. In addition, if our online display advertisements are no longer effective or are not able to reach certain consumers due to consumers' use of ad-blocking software, our business and operating results could suffer. 33 Table of Contents Additionally, changes in regulations or commercial practices have limited and will continue to limit the ability of search engines and social media platforms, including, but not limited to, Google and Facebook, to collect data from users and engage in targeted advertising. For example, the proposed Designing Accounting Safeguards to Help Broaden Oversight and Regulations on Data (DASHBOARD) Act would mandate annual disclosure to the SEC of the type and "aggregate value" of user data used by harvesting companies, such as, but not limited to, Facebook, Google and Amazon, including how revenue is generated by user data and what measures are taken to protect the data. If the costs of advertising on search engines and social media platforms increase, we may incur additional marketing expenses or be required to allocate a larger portion of our marketing spend to other channels and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Similarly, insurance brokerage and distribution regulation may limit our ability to rely on key distribution platforms, such as the Lemonade API, if the third party distribution platforms are unable to continue to distribute our insurance products pursuant to insurance law and regulations. The marketing of our insurance products depends on our ability to cultivate and maintain cost-effective and otherwise satisfactory relationships with digital app stores, in particular, those operated by Google and Apple. Furthermore, because many of our customers access our insurance products through an online app, we depend on the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store to distribute our online app. Both Apple and Google have broad discretion to change their respective terms and conditions applicable to the distribution of our online app, including those relating to the amount of (and requirement to pay) certain fees associated with purchases facilitated by Apple and Google through our online app, to interpret their respective terms and conditions in ways that may limit, eliminate or otherwise interfere with our ability to distribute online app through their stores, the features we provide and the manner in which we market in-app products. We cannot be certain that Apple or Google will not limit, eliminate or otherwise interfere with the distribution of our online app, the features we provide and the manner in which we market our online app. To the extent either or both of them do so, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, one of the factors we use to evaluate our customer satisfaction and market position is our Apple App Store ratings. This rating, however, may not be a reliable indicator of our customer satisfaction relative to other companies who are rated on the Apple App Store since, to date, we have received a fraction of the number of reviews of some of the companies we benchmark against. We also attract customers through our relationships with certain business development partners. If our business development partners were to charge higher rates or decide to terminate their relationships with us, our ability to attract customers could be materially impaired. In addition, we have expanded our direct to customer acquisition channels, including subway and taxicab panels. Our efforts to acquire customers through direct marketing may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny by state insurance regulators pursuant to unfair methods of competition or unfair or deceptive acts or practices laws. We may require additional capital to grow our business, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. To the extent that our capital is insufficient at any point in time to meet future operating requirements (including regulatory capital requirements) or to cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our projected growth. Many factors will affect our capital needs as well as their amount and timing, including our growth and profitability, the availability of reinsurance, as well as market disruptions and other developments. Historically, we have funded our operations, marketing expenditures and capital expenditures primarily through equity issuances. We evaluate financing opportunities from time to time, and our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans and operating performance, and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. In addition, the NYDFS, Delaware Department of Insurance ("DE Dept."), California Department of Insurance ("CDI"), and other regulatory bodies may not permit additional equity issuances or other forms of financing that we may wish to pursue. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. 34 Table of Contents If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and warrants, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. Our stockholders may also face dilution as the warrants issued to Chewy Insurance Services, LLC which will vest in installments, in increasing amounts over a period of five years, subject to certain vesting events and thresholds. See Note 16 for more information about the terms of these warrants.Furthermore, any debt financing secured by us in the future could require that a substantial portion of our operating cash flow be devoted to the payment of interest and principal on such indebtedness, which may decrease available funds for other business activities, and could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth, maintain minimum amounts of risk-based capital and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Interruptions or delays in the services provided by our sole provider of third-party data centers or our internet service providers could impair the operability of our website and our online app and may cause our business to suffer. We currently offer our products through our website and online app using Amazon Web Services ("AWS") data centers, a provider of cloud infrastructure services. We do not have control over the operations of the facilities of AWS that we use. AWSs facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, floods, fires, severe storms, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events, many of which are beyond our control, any of which could disrupt our services, prevent customers from accessing our products, destroy customer data, or prevent us from being able to continuously back up and record data. In the event of significant physical damage to one of these data centers, it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our services, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. If our data centers or related systems fail to operate properly or become disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to customers or damage to our reputation. We may not be able to easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud or other data center provider if there are disruptions or interference with our use of AWS, and, even if we do switch our operations, other cloud and data center providers are subject to the same risks. Moreover, negative publicity arising from these types of disruptions could damage our reputation and may adversely impact use of our website and online app. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance, it may not be sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business that may result from interruptions in our services or products. AWS enables us to order and reserve server capacity in varying amounts and sizes distributed across multiple regions and provides us with computing and storage capacity pursuant to an agreement that continues until terminated by either party. Termination of the AWS agreement may harm our ability to access data centers we need to host our website and online app or to do so on terms as favorable as those we have with AWS. As we continue to expand the number of customers to whom we provide our products and services, we may not be able to scale our technology to accommodate the increased capacity requirements, which may result in interruptions or delays in service. In addition, the failure of AWS data centers or third-party internet service providers to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions or delays in access to our website or online app or impede our ability to scale our operations. In the event that our AWS service agreements are terminated, or there is a lapse of service, interruption of internet service provider connectivity or damage to such facilities, we could experience interruptions in access to our website or online app as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities and services, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Security incidents or real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our systems, website or app could impair our operations, result in loss of personal customer information, damage our reputation and brand, and harm our business and operating results. Our continued success is dependent on our systems, applications, and software continuing to operate and to meet the changing needs of our customers and users. We rely on our technology and engineering staff and vendors to successfully implement changes to and maintain our systems and services in an efficient and secure manner. Like all information systems and technology, our website and online app may contain material errors, failures, vulnerabilities or bugs, particularly when new features or capabilities are released, and may be subject to computer viruses or malicious code, break-ins, phishing impersonation attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service or other attacks, ransomware and similar incidents or disruptions from unauthorized use of our computer systems, as well as unintentional incidents causing data leakage, any of which could lead to interruptions, delays or website or online app shutdowns, or could cause loss of critical data, or the unauthorized disclosure, access, acquisition, alteration or use of personal or other confidential information. If we experience compromises to our security that result in technology performance, integrity, or availability problems, the complete shutdown of our website or our online app or the loss or unauthorized disclosure, access, acquisition, alteration or use of confidential information, customers may lose trust and confidence in us, and customers may decrease the use of our website or our online app, or stop using our website or our online app entirely. Further, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our information or customers' information. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often they are not recognized until launched against a target, and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Even if we take steps that we believe are adequate to protect us from cyber threats, hacking against our competitors or other companies could create the perception among our customers or potential customers that our digital platform is not safe to use. A significant impact on the performance, reliability, security, and availability of our systems, software, or services may harm our reputation, impair our ability to operate, retain existing customers or attract new customers, and expose us to legal claims and government action, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. We are periodically subject to examinations by our primary state insurance regulators, which could result in adverse examination findings and necessitate remedial actions. We provide insurance through our subsidiaries, LIC and MIC. Since LIC is a New York State-domiciled insurance company, LICs primary insurance regulator responsible for supervision and examination is the NYDFS. Since MIC is domiciled in Delaware and is commercially domiciled in California, MICs primary insurance regulators responsible for supervision and examination are the Delaware Department of Insurance and the California Department of Insurance. LIC and MIC are subject to a financial examination by their primary insurance regulators generally every three to five years, under which they will evaluate the financial condition and identify current and prospective risks of each company by obtaining information about each company including corporate governance, identifying and assessing inherent risks within each company and evaluating system