Item 2 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Current Economic and Business Environment and Item 2 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Liquidity. Separately, if neither Springstone nor the Company can arrange for other investors to invest in or purchase Pool B loans that Springstone facilitates and that are originated by an issuing bank partner, Springstone and the Company are contractually committed to purchase these loans. The Company and the issuing bank have entered into purchase agreements with three investors to purchase Pool B loans or participation interests in Pool B loans. As of January 5, 2016, any contractual minimum purchase requirements by these three investors had expired. During the first quarter of 2016 , the Company was not required to purchase any Pool B loans or interests in such loans. In connection with re-negotiations of the program agreement with the issuing bank in the first quarter of 2016, the Company deposited $9.0 million into an account at the bank to secure potential, future purchases of these loans. Credit Support Agreement The Company is subject to a credit support agreement with Cirrix Capital (Investment Fund). The credit support agreement requires the Company to pledge and restrict cash in support of its contingent obligation to reimburse the Investment Fund for net credit losses on loans underlying the Investment Fund's certificates that are in excess of a specified, aggregate net loss threshold. The Company is contingently obligated to pledge cash, not to exceed $5.0 million , to support this contingent obligation. As of March 31, 2016 , $3.4 million was pledged and restricted to support this contingent obligation. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , the net credit losses pertaining to the Investment Fund's certificates have not exceeded the specified threshold, nor are future net credit losses expected to exceed the specified threshold, and thus no liability has been recorded. The Company currently does not anticipate recording losses under this credit support agreement. If losses related to the credit support agreement are later determined to be likely to occur and are estimable, results of operations could be affected in the period in which such losses are recorded. Legal Federal Securities Class Actions. In the first quarter of 2016, four putative class action lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws were filed in the California Superior Court in San Mateo County, naming as defendants the Company, its directors, certain officers, and the underwriters in the initial public offering that closed on December 16, 2014 (the IPO). The lawsuits allege violations of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) by the Company, the individual defendants and the underwriters for allegedly making materially false and misleading statements in the registration statement and prospectus issued in connection with the IPO regarding, among other things, the Companys business model, compliance with regulatory matters and their impact on the Companys business, operations and future results. The Company, the selling stockholders and the underwriters have agreed to indemnify each other against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Plaintiffs seek to represent a class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Companys securities pursuant or traceable to the IPO registration statement and prospectus. Plaintiffs seek class certification, unspecified compensatory damages, costs and expenses, including attorneys fees, and other further relief as the Court may deem just and proper. The 30 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted) (Unaudited) Company believes that the plaintiffs allegations are without merit, and intends to vigorously defend against the claims. Federal Consumer Class Action. In April 2016, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in federal court in New York, alleging that persons received loans, through the Company's platform, that exceeded states' usury limits in violation of state usury and consumer protection laws, and the federal RICO statute. The defendants, in addition to the Company, are WebBank, Steel Partners Holdings, L.P. and the Lending Club Members Trust. The Company has agreed to indemnify WebBank and Steel Partners Holdings, L.P. against certain liabilities in connection with this matter. The plaintiff seeks treble damages, attorneys' fees, and injunctive relief. The Company believes that the plaintiff's allegations are without merit, and intends to defend this matter vigorously. The Company was engaged in an arbitration proceeding with a prior employee who claimed that additional equity was due to him. The Company believed the claim to be without merit. The Company did not accrue a liability for this action as of March 31, 2016. On May 3, 2016, the arbitration panel delivered its final opinion denying all claims of the employee. On February 23, 2016, Phoenix Licensing, L.L.C. and LPL Licensing, L.L.C. filed a complaint for patent infringement against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 8,234,184, 6,999,938, 5,987,434, 8,352,317, and 7,860,744 by generating customized marketing materials, replies, and offers to client responses. The Company believes the plaintiffs allegations are without merit, and intends to defend this matter vigorously. On May 9, 2016, following the announcement of the board review described elsewhere in this filing, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). The Company also contacted the SEC. The Company intends to cooperate with the DOJ and the SEC. The DOJ and the SEC may have additional requests, and no assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of these matters. In addition to the foregoing, the Company may be subject to legal proceedings and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of business. The Company does not believe it is probable that the ultimate liability, if any, arising out of any such matter will have a material effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 17. Segment Reporting The Company defines operating segments to be components of the Company for which discrete financial information is evaluated regularly by the Companys chief operating decision maker (CODM). For purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance, the Companys CODM reviews financial information by the product types of personal loans, and education and patient finance loans. These product types are aggregated and viewed as one operating segment, and therefore, one reportable segment due to their similar economic characteristics, product economics, production process, and regulatory environment. Substantially all of the Companys revenue is generated in the United States. No individual customer accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net revenue for any of the periods presented. 18. Related Party Transactions Related party transactions must be reviewed and approved by the audit committee of the Companys board of directors when not conducted in the ordinary course of business subject to the standard terms of the Companys online marketplace or certificate investment program. Related party transactions may include any transaction between entities under common control or with a related person occurring since the beginning of the Companys latest fiscal year, or any currently proposed transaction involving the Company where the amount involved exceeds 31 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Amounts, Ratios, or as Noted) (Unaudited) $120,000 . This review also includes any material amendment or modification to an existing related party transaction. The Company has defined related persons as members of the board of directors, executive officers, principal owners of the Companys outstanding stock and any immediate family members of each such related persons, as well as any other person or entity with significant influence over the Companys management or operations. Several of the Company's executive officers and directors (including immediate family members) have made deposits and withdrawals to their investor accounts and purchased loans, notes and certificates or have investments in private funds managed by LCA. The Company believes all such transactions by related persons were made in the ordinary course of business and were transacted on terms and conditions that were not more favorable than those obtained by similarly situated third-party investors. At December 31, 2015, Mr. Laplanche, the Company's former CEO and Chairman, and Mr. Mack, a director, owned approximately 2.0% and 10% , respectively, of limited partnership interests in the Investment Fund, a holding company that participates in a family of funds with other unrelated third parties and purchases whole loans and interests in loans from the Company. During the first quarter of 2016, this family of funds purchased $114.5 million of whole loans and interests in whole loans. During the first quarter of 2016, the Company earned $380 thousand in servicing fees and $15 thousand in management fees from this family of funds, and paid interest of $2.0 million to the family of funds. The Company believes that the sales of whole loans and interests in whole loans, and the servicing and management fees charged were on terms and conditions that were not more favorable than those obtained by other third-party investors. In the first quarter of 2016, Mr. Laplanche invested an additional $4.0 million to increase his limited partnership interest in the Investment Fund to approximately 8% . On April 1, 2016, the Company closed its $10.0 million investment, for an ownership interest in the Investment Fund of approximately 15% . As of close of business April 1, 2016, the Company, Mr. Laplanche and Mr. Mack owned approximately 15% , 8% , and 8% of limited partnership interests in the Investment Fund, respectively, for an aggregate interest of approximately 31% . 19. Subsequent Events The Company has evaluated the impact of events that have occurred subsequent to March 31, 2016 , through the date the condensed consolidated financial statements were filed with the SEC. Based on this evaluation, other than as recorded or disclosed within these condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes or as below, the Company has determined none of these events were required to be recognized or disclosed. In May 2016, the board of directors or the compensation committee of the board of directors, as appropriate, approved incentive awards to certain members of the executive management team and other key personnel. The incentive awards consist of an aggregate of $11.0 million of RSUs, $1.0 million in stock options, and $4.9 million of cash. For additional information on the vesting terms and recipients of these awards see Part II Other Information Item 5 Other Information. 32 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Report). In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly in Part II Other Information Item 1A Risk Factors in this Report and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (Annual Report). Overview Lending Club is the worlds largest online marketplace connecting borrowers and investors. We believe a technology-powered marketplace is a more efficient mechanism to allocate capital between borrowers and investors than the traditional banking system. Qualified consumers and small business owners borrow through Lending Club to lower the cost of their credit and enjoy a better experience than traditional bank lending. Investors use Lending Club to earn attractive risk-adjusted returns from an asset class that has generally been closed to many investors and only available on a limited basis to institutional investors. The capital to invest in the loans enabled through our marketplace comes directly from a wide range of investors, including retail investors, high-net-worth individuals and family offices, banks and finance companies, insurance companies, hedge funds, foundations, pension plans and university endowments, and through a variety of investment channels. Historically, our overall business model is not premised on using our balance sheet and assuming credit risk for loans facilitated by our marketplace. In order to support: contractual obligations (Pool B loans and repurchase obligations), regulatory commitments (direct mail), short-term marketplace equilibrium, customer accommodations, or other possible events including a decline in overall investor participation on the platform, we may use our capital on the platform from time to time on terms that are substantially similar to other investors. Additionally, we may use our capital to invest in loans associated with the testing or initial launch of alternative or new loan terms, programs or channels to establish a track record of performance prior to facilitating third-party investments in these loans. We generate revenue from transaction fees from our marketplaces role in accepting and decisioning applications for our bank partners to enable loan originations, servicing fees from investors for matching available loan assets with capital, and management fees from investment funds and other managed accounts. Generally, the transaction fees we receive from issuing banks in connection with our marketplaces role in facilitating loan originations range from 1% to 7% of the initial principal amount of the loan as of March 31, 2016 . In addition, for education and patient finance loans, transaction fees may exceed 7% as they include fees earned from issuing banks and service providers. Servicing fees paid to us vary based on investment channel. Note investors generally pay us a servicing fee equal to 1% of payment amounts received from the borrower; whole loan purchasers pay a monthly servicing fee of up to 1.3% per annum on the month-end principal balance of loans serviced and certificate holders generally pay a monthly management fee of up to 1.5% per annum of the month-end balance of assets under management. Since beginning operations in 2007 , our marketplace has facilitated approximately $18.7 billion in loan originations. These loans were facilitated through the following investment channels: (i) the issuance of notes, (ii) the sale of certificates, or (iii) the sale of whole loans to qualified investors. Approximately $3.7 billion of our loan originations since inception were invested in through notes, $6.0 billion were invested in through certificates and $9.0 billion were invested in through whole loan sales. In the first quarter of 2016 , our marketplace facilitated approximately 33 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) $2.8 billion of loan originations, of which approximately $0.4 billion were invested in through notes, $0.5 billion were invested in through certificates and $1.9 billion were invested in through whole loan sales. Board Review In light of the circumstances relating to $22.3 million of near-prime loan sales in private transactions with a single institutional investor, as described below, and related issues involving data integrity and contract approval monitoring and review processes, we conducted a review under the supervision of an independent sub-committee of the board of directors and with the assistance of independent outside counsel and other advisors. The review also focused on investment transactions in the Investment Fund by us and two related persons and the other matters described below. After the end of the first quarter, we became aware that approximately $15.1 million and $7.2 million in near-prime loans were sold to a single institutional investor in March and April 2016, respectively. The loans in question failed to conform to the investor's express instructions as to a non-credit, non-pricing element. Certain personnel apparently were aware that the sale did not meet the investor's criteria. In one case, involving $3.0 million in loans, an application date was changed in a live Company database in an attempt to appear to meet the investor's requirement, and the balance of the loans were sold in direct contravention of the investor's direction. The change in application date was promptly remediated. The financial impact of the sales of these $22.3 million in near-prime loans would have been to increase reported gains on sales of loans by approximately $150,000, and to derecognize the loans from the condensed consolidated balance sheet. In April 2016, we repurchased these loans at par. As the original transfers to the investor did not meet sale criteria for accounting purposes, the transactions in March 2016 were recorded as secured borrowings and the loans sold to the investor in March are included in loans at fair value on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2016. In April 2016, we resold these loans at par to a different investor who was aware of the reason for the original repurchase. In connection with this review, the Company concluded that, as of March 31, 2016, the Companys internal control over financial reporting was ineffective due to a material weakness and, therefore, the Companys disclosure