Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations for the Years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 - Revenue." On July 23, 2018, we acquired Student Loan Hero, Inc. (Student Loan Hero), a personal finance website dedicated to helping student loan borrowers manage their student debt. Student Loan Hero offers current and former students in-depth financial comparison tools, educational resources, and unbiased, personalized advice. This strategic transaction allows us to scale our student loan business and provide consumers with the tools and resources to better understand their personal finances and make smarter financial decisions. On June 11, 2018, we acquired Ovation Credit Services, Inc. (Ovation), a leading provider of credit services with a strong customer service reputation. Ovation utilizes a proprietary software application that facilitates the credit repair process and is integrated directly with certain credit bureaus while educating consumers on credit improvement via ongoing outreach with Ovation case advisors. The proprietary software application offers consumers a simple, streamlined process to identify, dispute, and correct inaccuracies within their credit reports. Ovation's experienced management team, strong credit bureau relationships and customized software platform enable us to help more consumers achieve their original financial goals through the LendingTree platform. On September 19, 2017, we acquired certain assets of Snap Capital LLC ("SnapCap"). SnapCap is a tech-enabled online platform, which connects business owners with lenders offering small business loans, lines of credit and merchant cash advance products through a concierge-based sales approach. SnapCap's high-touch, high-conversion sales approach with our brand and performance marketing expertise has enabled growth in our small business offering. On June 20, 2017, we acquired the membership interests of Camino Del Avion (Delaware), LLC, which does business under the name MagnifyMoney. MagnifyMoney is a leading consumer-facing media property that offers editorial content, expert commentary, tools and resources to help consumers compare financial products and make informed financial decisions. The 4 Table of Contents MagnifyMoney team brings the expertise and infrastructure to expand content creation and distribution across all of our consumer facing brands, improving our presence and efficacy in acquisition channels such as search engine optimization. On June 14, 2017, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Deposits Online, LLC, which does business under the name DepositAccounts.com (DepositAccounts). DepositAccounts is a leading consumer-facing media property in the depository industry and is one of the most comprehensive sources of depository deals and analysis on the Internet, covering all major deposit product categories through editorial content, programmatic rate tables and user-generated content. This acquisition represented our first offering to address the asset side of the consumer balance sheet. On November 16, 2016, we acquired Iron Horse Holdings, LLC, which does business under the name CompareCards. CompareCards is a leading online source for side-by-side credit card comparison shopping. CompareCards provides consumers with one centralized location for pertinent credit card information needed to find the best card for their needs. CompareCards unique marketing platform and strong relationships with card issuers combined with LendingTrees scale and organizational support have delivered substantial growth in our credit card business. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations for the Years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 - Revenue." These acquisitions continue our diversification strategy. Products We currently report our revenues in two product categories: (i) mortgage products and (ii) non-mortgage products. Non-mortgage products include credit cards, personal loans, home equity loans, reverse mortgage loans, auto loans, small business loans, student loans and insurance quotes. Non-mortgage products also include deposit accounts, home improvement referrals and other credit products such as credit repair and debt settlement. Mortgage and non-mortgage product revenue is as follows (in thousands) : For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Mortgage products $ 242,175 $ 275,910 $ 219,991 Non-mortgage products 522,690 341,826 164,411 Total revenue $ 764,865 $ 617,736 $ 384,402 LendingTree does not charge consumers or small businesses for the use of our services, except for credit repair services. Revenues from our mortgage products are mostly derived from upfront match fees paid by Network Partners that receive a consumer request, and in some cases upfront fees for clicks or call transfers. Because a given consumer request form can be matched with more than one Network Partner, up to five match fees may be generated from a single consumer request form. Revenues from our non-mortgage products are derived from upfront match fees paid on delivery of a consumer request, click or call and closed loan fees. For our credit card product, we send click traffic to issuers and are paid per card approval. For the year ended December 31, 2018, there were no Network Partners accounting for more than 10% of total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 , one Network Partner, Quicken Loans, accounted for 11% and 15% of total revenue, respectively. Another Network Partner, loanDepot, LLC, accounted for 13% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016. Mortgage Products Our mortgage products category includes our purchase and refinance products. We partner with lenders throughout the United States to provide full geographic lending coverage and to offer a complete suite of loan offerings on our marketplace. To participate on our marketplace, lenders are required to enter into contracts with us that state the terms and conditions for such participation, although these contracts generally may be terminated for convenience by either party. We perform certain due diligence procedures on prospective new lenders, including screening against a national anti-fraud database maintained by the Mortgage Asset Research Institute, which helps manage our risk exposure. The data is utilized to determine whether a lender and its principals are eligible to participate on our marketplace and have not been convicted of and/or penalized for fraudulent activity. Consumers seeking mortgage loans through our loan marketplace can receive multiple conditional loan offers from participating lenders in response to a single consumer request form. We refer to the process by which we match consumers and Network Partners as the matching process. This matching process consists of the following steps: (1) Consumer Request. Consumers complete a single request form with information regarding the type of mortgage loan product they are seeking, loan preferences and other data. Consumers also consent to a soft inquiry regarding their credit. 5 Table of Contents (2) Consumer Request Form Matching and Transmission. Our proprietary systems and technology match a given consumer's request form data, credit profile and geographic location against certain pre-established criteria of Network Partners, which may be modified from time to time. Once a given request passes through the matching process, the request is automatically transmitted to up to five participating Network Partners. (3) Lender Evaluation and Response. Network Partners that receive a consumer request form evaluate the information contained in it to determine whether to make a conditional loan offer. (4) Communication of a Conditional Offer. All matched Network Partners and any conditional offers are presented to the consumer upon completion of the consumer request form. Consumers can return to the site and view their offer(s) at any time by logging in to their My LendingTree profile. Additionally, matched lenders and offers are also sent to the email address associated with the consumer request. We also offer consumers other mortgage products such as: an alternative "short-form" matching process, which provides them with lender contact information rather than conditional offers from Network Partners, and a "rate table" loan marketplace, where consumers can enter their loan and credit profile and dynamically view real-time rates from lenders without entering their contact information. Non-Mortgage Products Lending Products . Other lending products on our online marketplace include information, tools and access to multiple conditional loan offers for the following: Auto, which includes our auto refinance and purchase loan products. Auto loans enable consumers to purchase new or used vehicles or refinance an existing loan secured by an automobile. Credit cards, which include offerings from most major card issuers. As described above, during the fourth quarter of 2016, we purchased CompareCards, a leader in the online credit card comparison industry, enhancing this product. Home equity loans and lines of credit, which enable home owners to borrow against the equity in their home, as measured by the difference between the market value of the home and any existing loans secured by the home. Home equity loans are one-time lump sum loans, whereas a home equity line of credit reflects a line of revolving credit where the borrower has flexibility to draw down and repay the line over time. Personal loans, which are unsecured obligations generally carrying shorter terms and smaller loan amounts than home mortgages. Reverse mortgage loans, which are a loan product available to qualifying homeowners age 62 or older. Small business loans, which include a broad array of financing types, including but not limited to loans secured by working capital, equipment, real estate and other forms of financing, provided to small and medium-sized businesses. As described above, during the third quarter of 2017, we purchased SnapCap, an online platform with a concierge-based approach to connecting business owners with sources of credit, enhancing this product. Student loans, which includes both new loans to finance an education and related expenses, as well as refinancing of existing loans. During the second quarter of 2016, we purchased SimpleTuition, a leading online marketing platform for student loans, and during the third quarter of 2018, we purchased Student Loan Hero, a personal finance website dedicated to helping student loan borrowers manage their student debt, enhancing this product. We intend to continue adding new offerings for consumers, small businesses and partners on our online marketplace, in order to grow and diversify our sources of revenue. We may develop such new offerings through internal product development efforts, strategic business relationships with third parties and/or acquisitions. Other Products . Other products also includes information, tools and access to the following: Deposit accounts, through which consumers can access depository deals and analysis covering all major deposit product categories. On June 14, 2017, we acquired DepositAccounts.com, a leading consumer-facing media property in the depository industry and is one of the most comprehensive sources of depository deals and analysis on the Internet, covering all major deposit product categories through editorial content, programmatic rate tables and user-generated content. Credit repair, through which consumers can obtain assistance improving their credit profiles, in order to expand and improve loan and other financial product opportunities available to them. During the second quarter of 2018, we purchased Ovation, a leading provider of credit services with a strong customer service reputation, enhancing this product. Debt relief services, through which consumers can obtain assistance negotiating existing loans. 6 Table of Contents Home improvement services, through which consumers have the opportunity to research and find home improvement professional services. Insurance products, including home and automobile, through which consumers are matched with insurance lead aggregators to obtain insurance offers. We enhanced our insurance products by acquiring QuoteWizard, one of the largest insurance comparison marketplaces in the growing online insurance advertising market, in the fourth quarter of 2018. We also purchased ValuePenguin, a personal finance website that offers consumers objective analysis on a variety of financial topics from insurance to credit cards, in the first quarter of 2019. Personal credit data, through which consumers can gain insights into how prospective lenders and other third parties view their credit profiles. Real estate brokerage services, through which consumers are matched with local realtors who can assist them in their home purchase or sale efforts. Revenue earned through resale of online advertising space to third parties is also classified in other products. We refer to the various purchasers of leads from our other marketplaces as lead purchasers. We generate revenue from the deposit account product from a consumer clicking from our website through to a financial institution's website. We generate revenue from insurance products through match fees, fees for website clicks or fees for calls. We generate revenue from real estate brokerage services through match fees paid to us by real estate brokers participating in our online marketplace. We generate revenue from credit repair and debt relief services through subscription fees from consumers that enroll in our credit repair product, or a fee for a customer referral to a service provider partner or through a fee at the time a consumer enrolls in a program with one of our partners. Revenue for home services is derived primarily through matching of leads to other home services lead aggregators. Seasonality Revenue in our lending business is subject to cyclical and seasonal trends. Home sales (and purchase mortgages) typically rise during the spring and summer months and decline during the fall and winter months, while refinancing and home equity activity is principally driven by mortgage interest rates as well as real estate values. However, in certain historical periods additional factors affecting the mortgage and real estate markets, such as the 2008-2009 financial crisis and ensuing recession have impacted customary seasonal trends. We anticipate revenue in our newer products to be cyclical as well; however, we have limited historical data to predict the nature and magnitude of this cyclicality. Based on industry data, we anticipate that as our personal loan product matures we will experience less consumer demand during the fourth and first quarters of each year. We also anticipate less consumer demand for credit cards in the fourth quarter of each year and we anticipate higher consumer demand for deposit accounts in the first quarter of each year. The majority of consumer demand for in-school student loan products occurs in the third quarter coinciding with collegiate enrollment in late summer. Other factors affecting our businesses include macro factors such as credit availability in the market, interest rates, the strength of the economy and employment. Competition Our lending and other businesses compete with other online marketing companies, including online intermediaries that operate network-type arrangements. We also face competition from lenders and insurance agents that source consumers directly. These companies typically operate consumer-branded websites and attract consumers via online banner ads, keyword placement on search engines, direct mail, television ads, retail branches, realtors, brokers, radio and other sources, partnerships with affiliates and business development arrangements with others, including major online portals. Corporate History LendingTree, Inc., is the parent of LendingTree, LLC and several companies owned by LendingTree, LLC. LendingTree, LLC, formerly known as LendingTree, Inc., was incorporated in the state of Delaware in June 1996 and commenced nationwide operations in July 1998. LendingTree, Inc., was acquired by IAC/InterActiveCorp ("IAC") in 2003 and converted to a Delaware limited liability company (LendingTree, LLC) in December 2004. LendingTree, LLC entered the mortgage origination business through the acquisition of Home Loan Center, Inc. in 2004. On August 20, 2008, LendingTree, LLC (along with its parent holding company Tree.com, Inc.) was spun off from IAC/InterActiveCorp into a separate publicly-traded company. We refer to the separation transaction as the "spin-off" in this report. Tree.com was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in April 2008 in anticipation of the spin-off. The Home Loan Center business was sold to Discover Financial Services in 2012. Since then, the Company has operated as a pure online marketplace and does not originate loans. Effective January 1, 2015, we changed our corporate name from Tree.com, Inc. to LendingTree, Inc. 7 Table of Contents Regulation and Legal Compliance Our businesses market and provide services in heavily regulated industries through a number of different online and offline channels across the United States. As a result, we are subject to a variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions in the United States, including: Restrictions on the manner in which consumer loans are marketed and originated, including, but not limited to, the making of required consumer disclosures, such as the Federal Trade Commission's Mortgage Advertising Practices ("MAP") Rules, federal Truth-in-Lending Act, the federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, the federal Fair Housing Act, the federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ("RESPA"), and similar state laws; Restrictions imposed by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd Frank Act") and current or future rules promulgated thereunder, including, but not limited to, limitations on fees charged by mortgage lenders, mortgage broker disclosures and rules promulgated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), which was created under the Dodd-Frank Act; Restrictions on the amount and nature of fees that may be charged to lenders and real estate professionals for providing or obtaining consumer loan requests, such as under RESPA; Federal and State laws relating to the implementation of the Secure and Fair Enforcement of Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (the "SAFE Act") that require us to be licensed in all States and the District of Columbia (licensing requirements are applicable to both individuals and/or businesses engaged in the solicitation of or the brokering of residential mortgage loans and/or the brokering of real estate transactions); State and federal restrictions on the marketing activities conducted by telephone, mail, email, mobile device or the internet, including the Telemarketing Sales Rule ("TSR"), the Telephone Consumer Protection Act ("TCPA"), state telemarketing laws, federal and state privacy laws, the CAN-SPAM Act, and the Federal Trade Commission Act and their accompanying regulations and guidelines; State laws requiring licensure for or otherwise imposing restrictions on the solicitation of or brokering of consumer loans which could affect us in our personal loan, automobile loan, student loan, credit card, or other non-mortgage consumer lending businesses; Federal and state laws relating to offering of credit repair services to consumers, such as Credit Repair Organizations Act ("CROA") and state level CROA-type statutes. Restrictions on the usage and storage of consumer credit information, such as those contained in the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act and the federal CROA; and State "Bird Dog" laws which restrict the amount and nature of fees, if any, that may be charged to consumers for automobile direct and indirect financing. Intellectual Property We believe that our intellectual property rights are vital to our success. To protect our intellectual property rights in our brand, technology, products, improvements and inventions, we rely on a combination of trademarks, trade secrets, patents and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, including confidentiality agreements with strategic partners, employees, consultants and other third parties. As new or improved proprietary technologies are developed or inventions are identified, we seek patent protection in the United States and abroad, as appropriate. We have one issued U.S. patent related to the system and method for collecting financial information over a global communications network, which expires in 2032. Many of our services are offered under proprietary trademarks and service marks. We generally apply to register or secure by contract our principal trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used. We have 28 trademarks and service marks registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These registrations can typically be renewed at 10-year intervals. We reserve and register domain names when and where we deem appropriate and we currently have over 1,500 registered domain names. We also have agreements with third parties that provide for the licensing of patented and proprietary technology used in our business. 8 Table of Contents From time to time, we may be subjected to legal proceedings and claims, or threatened legal proceedings or claims, including allegations of infringement of third-party trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, the use of litigation and other dispute resolution processes, such as Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution, may be necessary for us to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Employees As of December 31, 2018 , we had 909 employees, of which approximately 892 are full-time and 17 are temporary or part-time. None of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements and we consider our relations with employees and independent contractors to be good. Additional Information Website and Public Filings We maintain a corporate website at www.lendingtree.com and an investor relations website at investors.lendingtree.com . None of the information on our website is incorporated by reference in this report, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We make available, free of charge through our website, our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, our proxy statement for the annual shareholders' meeting and beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers and senior financial officers and directors, is posted on our website at investors.lendingtree.com/governance/board-of-directors . This is our code of ethics pursuant to Item 406 of SEC Regulation S-K and the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Any amendments to or waivers of the code of business conduct and ethics that are of the type described in Item 406(b) and (d) of Regulation S-K will be disclosed on our website. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report and the information incorporated by reference herein. If any of the risks described below, or incorporated by reference into this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties we have described are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain statements below are forward-looking statements. See the information included under the heading "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information." Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Adverse conditions in the primary and secondary mortgage markets, as well as the general economy, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Constraints in the primary and secondary mortgage markets have in the past had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Generally, increases in interest rates adversely affect the ability of our mortgage Network Partners to close loans, and adverse economic trends limit the ability of our mortgage Network Partners to offer home loans other than low-margin conforming loans. Our businesses may experience a decline in demand for their offerings due to decreased consumer demand as a result of the conditions described above, now or in the future. The decreased consumer demand for mortgage refinancing typically leads to decreased traffic to our website and higher associated selling and marketing efforts associated with that traffic. While higher lender demand during these periods often leads to an increase in the amount lenders will pay per matched lead and higher revenue earned per consumer, increases in the amount lenders will pay per matched lead in this situation is limited by the overall cost models of our lenders, and our revenue earned per consumer can be adversely affected by the overall reduced demand for refinancing in a rising rate environment. These factors combined to cause lower revenue earned per consumer in the second half of 2018 compared to the prior year period. Conversely, during periods with decreased interest rates, mortgage Network Partners have less incentive to use our marketplaces, or in the case of sudden increases in consumer demand, our mortgage Network Partners may lack the ability to support sudden increases in volume. We depend on relationships with Network Partners and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in significant part on the financial strength of lenders and lead purchasers participating on our marketplaces and continuing relationships with such lenders and lead purchases. Network Partners could, for any reason, experience financial difficulties and cease participating on our marketplaces, fail to pay match and/or closing fees when due and/or drop the quality of their services to consumers. We could also have commercial or other disputes with such Network Partners from time to time. The occurrence of one or more of these events with a significant number of Network Partners could, alone or in combination, have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to meet certain metrics required by Network Partners, then our business and financial results may be harmed. We compete against other online marketing companies in significant part based on the quality and convertibility of the leads we generate. Network Partners have expectations as to the quality and conversion rate of the leads that we generate. These expectations sometimes change over time. The leads that we supply to Network Partners may not meet the expectations that they have for such leads. Conversion rates for leads may be impacted by factors other than the lead quality, many of which are outside our control. Such factors include competition in lending and insurance markets and sales practices of Network Partners. Failure to meet the expectations of Network Partners in terms of quality and convertibility of leads may result in reduced fees paid to us by such Network Partners, or in extreme cases, the loss of one or more Network Partners, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain brand recognition and attract and retain consumers in a cost-effective manner could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to attract visitors to our websites, convert these visitors into loan or other financial product requests for our Network Partners and lead purchasers and generate repeat visits from consumers, our businesses must promote and maintain their various brands. Brand promotion and maintenance requires the expenditure of considerable money and resources for online and offline advertising, marketing and related efforts, as well as the continued provision and introduction of high-quality products and services. 10 Table of Contents Brand recognition is a key differentiating factor among providers of online services. We believe that continuing to build and maintain the recognition of our various brands is critical to achieving increased demand for the services provided by our businesses. Accordingly, we have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant amounts on, and devote significant resources to, branding, advertising and other marketing initiatives, which may not be successful or cost-effective. The failure of our businesses to maintain the recognition of their respective brands and attract and retain consumers in a cost-effective manner could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse publicity from legal proceedings against us or our businesses, including governmental proceedings and consumer class action litigation, or from the disclosure of information security breaches, could negatively impact our various brands, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the actions of our third-party marketing partners who engage in advertising on our behalf could negatively impact our various brands. Furthermore, adverse publicity and the potential corresponding impact on our reputation may be accelerated and amplified by the widespread use of social media platforms. We depend on search engines, online advertising and other online sources to attract visitors to our websites, and if we are unable to attract these visitors and convert them into consumer requests for our Network Partners in a cost-effective manner, our business and financial results may be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract online consumers to our websites and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. We depend, in part, on search engines, online advertising and other online sources for our website traffic. We are included in search results as a result of both paid search listings, where we purchase specific search terms that result in the inclusion of our advertisement, and, separately, organic searches, that depend upon the searchable content on our sites. Search engines and other online sources revise their algorithms, and introduce new advertising products, from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for website traffic were to modify its general methodology for how it displays our websites, resulting in fewer consumers clicking through to our websites, our business could suffer. If any free search engine traffic on which we rely begins charging fees for listing or placement, or if one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings, modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, we could lose customers, and traffic to our websites could decrease, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if our online advertisements are not able to reach certain consumers due to consumers use of ad-blocking software, our business could suffer. We compete with a number of other online marketing companies, and we face the possibility of new competitors. We currently compete with a number of other online marketing companies and we expect that competition will intensify. Some of these existing competitors may have more capital or complementary products or services than we do, and they may leverage their greater capital or diversification in a manner that adversely affects our competitive position, including by making strategic acquisitions. In addition, new competitors may enter the market and may be able to innovate and bring products and services to market faster, or anticipate and meet consumer or Network Partner demand before we do. Other newcomers, including major search engines and content aggregators, may be able to leverage their existing products and services or access to data to our disadvantage. We may be forced to expend significant resources to remain competitive with current and potential competitors. If any of our competitors are more successful than we are at attracting and retaining customers or Network Partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructures. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructures may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructures, including websites, information and related systems, call centers and distribution and fulfillment facilities. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems and infrastructures may materially and adversely affect our ability to operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent our businesses from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We also rely on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems and infrastructures, our businesses, our affiliates and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructures, could impair the ability of our businesses to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, unauthorized intrusions or computer viruses, and similar 11 Table of Contents events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent our businesses from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While our businesses have backup systems for certain aspects of their operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these events were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also in the process of transitioning certain product exchanges to a new technology platform. The risks associated with this transition include, but are not limited to, operational implementation, downtimes, and diversion of management and technical resources. If the transition to the new platform is more challenging or time consuming than expected, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Breaches or failures of our network and website security, the theft, unauthorized access, acquisition, use, disclosure or misappropriation of personal consumer information, the occurrence of fraudulent activity, or other data security-related incidents may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Breaches or failures of security involving our systems and website or those of any of our affiliated third-parties may occur, and could result in the theft, unauthorized access, acquisition, use, disclosure, or misappropriation of personal consumer information, fraudulent activity, or system disruptions or shutdowns. Any breach, penetration, or failure of network security or theft, unauthorized access, acquisition, use, disclosure or misappropriate of personal consumer information collected, processed, or maintained by us or our affiliated third-parties could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject us to increased costs, litigation, and other liabilities. The occurrence of any real or attempted breach, penetration, or failure of security, or the reporting of such an incident, whether accurate or not, could result in claims made against us or our third-party affiliates for the theft, unauthorized access, acquisition, use, disclosure, or misappropriation of personal information, which could result in state and/or federal litigation and related financial liabilities, as well as criminal penalties or civil liabilities and regulatory actions from state and/or federal governmental authorities. Real or perceived security breaches or failures could also significantly damage our brand and reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business and result in adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, and reduced sales and profits. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against, respond to, and recover from any potential, attempted, or existing security breaches or failures and their consequences. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with whom we are affiliated or otherwise conduct business. Consumers are generally concerned with security and privacy of the Internet, and any publicized security problems affecting our businesses and/or those of third parties may discourage consumers from doing business with us, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are susceptible to fraudulent activity and data security-related incidents that may be committed against us, our Network Partners or external service providers which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us, disclosure or misuse of our information, theft, unauthorized access, acquisition, use, disclosure or misappropriation of personal information, misappropriation of assets, privacy litigation, regulatory actions, or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent and malicious activity may take many forms, including check fraud, fraudulent inducement, electronic fraud, wire fraud, computer viruses, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts, any of which could be the result of a circumvention or failure of our data security processes, procedures, tools, and controls. Information security breaches and failures may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us, Network Partners, or external service providers, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware, such as ransomware, or other cyber-attacks. We rely on a framework of security, processes, procedures, tools, and controls designed to protect our information and assets, but despite our reasonable efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and website, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventative measures against all security breaches or failures and fraudulent activity, especially because the methods of attack and deception change frequently and because such conduct can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties such as external service providers. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Litigation and indemnification of secondary market purchasers, including a pending case brought by Residential Funding Company, LLC, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In connection with the sale of loans to secondary market purchasers, Home Loan Center, Inc. ("HLC") may be liable for certain indemnification, repurchase and premium repayment obligations. For example, in connection with the sale of loans to secondary market purchasers, HLC made certain representations regarding related borrower credit information, loan documentation and collateral. To the extent that these representations were incorrect, HLC may be required to repurchase loans or indemnify secondary market purchasers for losses due to borrower defaults. HLC has made payments for these liabilities in the past and expects to make payments for these liabilities in the future. 12 Table of Contents We continue to be liable for these indemnification obligations, repurchase obligations and premium repayment obligations following the sale of substantially all of the operating assets of our LendingTree Loans business. We have in the past and intend to continue to negotiate in the future with secondary market purchasers to settle any existing and future contingent liabilities, but we cannot assure you we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In the fourth quarter of 2018, the case of Residential Funding Company, LLC v Home Loan Center, Inc., went to trial, and the jury returned a verdict of $28.7 million in favor of the plaintiff. The plaintiff is also seeking up to $28.8 million in attorneys fees and $30.6 million in pre-judgment interest in addition to the jury verdict amount. As of February 28, 2019, the court has not yet entered judgment in favor of the plaintiff. HLC believes it has strong grounds for appeal and further believes that the plaintiffs demand for attorneys fees and pre-judgment interest is excessive (and, if granted, would be subject to appeal). HLC intends to vigorously pursue an appeal but we cannot assure you that the appeal will be successful or that even if successful on certain theories, the plaintiff would not receive a substantial recovery upon retrial or otherwise. See Note 15 - Contingencies, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. We have incurred substantial legal fees in this matter. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016-Discontinued Operations. The ultimate outcome of the Residential Funding Company, LLC matter and the outcomes of other pending of indemnification claims, repurchase obligations or premium repayments beyond our reserves for these contingencies, including legal fees we incur, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the mortgage industry. Declines in the housing market from 2006 through early 2012, as measured by the S&P/Case-Schiller 20-city composite home price index, with home price declines and increased foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but subsequently of other asset-backed securities, credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the housing markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market disruption and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence and increased market volatility. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has had in the past and may have in the future, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While conditions in the housing markets have improved since 2013, the failure to sustain such improvements could have adverse effects on us and our mortgage Network Partners. Further, our business could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other businesses in the financial services sector, including our non-lender lead purchasers. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more of these entities, or the financial services industry generally, have in the past, and may in the future, lead to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to disruptions in the financial technology industry. Any such disruption could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue growth in 2017 and 2018 has been driven by our credit card product. Our credit card product offering is subject to particular risks: adverse conditions in the economy may affect credit card issuers and their willingness to issue new credit; credit losses among credit card issuers may increase beyond normal and budgeted levels which could cause a reduction in demand; interest rate increases may make balance transfer cards less profitable for issuers; credit card issuers and other advertisers in the business verticals in which we operate may be unwilling to advertise on our websites or mobile applications; changes in application approval rates by credit card issuer customers; increased competition and its effect on our website traffic, click-through rates, advertising rates, revenue, margins, and market share; ability to provide competitive service to credit card issuers and to consumers using our online offerings and other platforms; 13 Table of Contents credit card issuers may determine that the online digital marketing channel is no longer a viable marketing platform for generating new credit card customers; our ability to maintain brand recognition for both LendingTree and CompareCards and to effectively leverage the LendingTree brand with the CompareCards brand; and our ability to develop new products and services and enhance existing ones. If our credit card product is impacted by the risks described above, then our results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenue growth in 2018 has been driven by our insurance leads business through our acquisition of QuoteWizard, which was completed in October 2018. The QuoteWizard acquisition poses risks for our ongoing operations, including, among others: adverse conditions in the economy may affect insurance carriers and their willingness to issue policies; covered losses among insurance carriers may increase beyond normal and budgeted levels which could cause a reduction in demand; insurance carriers and other advertisers in the business verticals in which we or QuoteWizard operate may be unwilling to advertise on our or QuoteWizards websites or mobile applications; changes in underwriting approval rates by insurance carrier customers; increased competition and its effect on our or QuoteWizards website traffic, click-through rates, advertising rates, revenue, margins, and market share; ability to provide competitive service to insurance carriers and to consumers using QuoteWizards and our online offerings and other platforms; insurance carriers may determine that the online digital marketing channel is no longer a viable marketing platform for generating new insurance customers; our ability to maintain brand recognition for both LendingTree and QuoteWizard and to effectively leverage the LendingTree brand with the QuoteWizard brand; our ability to develop new products and services and enhance existing ones; our ability to retain key employees of QuoteWizard; costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities; that the business acquired in the acquisition may not continue to perform as well as anticipated; and assumed liabilities associated with QuoteWizards historical operations, including liabilities arising from privacy and security regulations or security breaches. If the QuoteWizard business is impacted by the risks described above, then our results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. A portion of our revenue growth in recent years has been driven by personal loan offerings. If lenders participating on our marketplace decide to reduce their offerings of personal loans or if such loans become unattractive to consumers because of higher interest rates demanded by lenders, then our results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Revenue from personal loan offerings was responsible for a significant portion of the growth in the non-mortgage revenue over the last few years. Revenue from our personal loan product increased $46.0 million in 2018 from 2017 and $21.7 million in 2017 from 2016. Personal loans are unsecured obligations and generally carry shorter terms and smaller loan amounts than mortgages. Because they are unsecured, they are generally riskier assets for lenders than mortgages or other secured loans. Consumer demand for unsecured loans offered on our marketplace is often for refinancing of higher interest credit card debt or for a lower interest alternative to credit card debt for a contemplated larger purchase that would otherwise be purchased with a credit card. Lenders 14 Table of Contents participating on our marketplace may reduce their willingness to make personal loans at more attractive interest rates than credit card debt and may for that reason, or for any other reason, reduce their demand for personal consumer requests generated from our personal loan marketplace. Reasons that lenders might reduce their willingness to make personal loans at attractive interest rates may include regulatory changes, stricter institutional lending criteria, a lack of adequate funding sources or capital for loan originations, or increased borrower default levels, which may occur upon adverse changes in regional, national or global economic conditions. Additionally, lenders may tighten their underwriting standards, making it more difficult for consumers to qualify for personal loans. If lenders participating on our marketplace decide to reduce their offerings of personal loans, tighten their underwriting standards, or if personal loans become unattractive to consumers because of higher interest rates demanded by lenders, then our results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Network Partners affiliated with our marketplaces are not precluded from offering products and services outside of our marketplaces, or obtaining products and services from our competitors. Because our businesses do not have exclusive relationships with Network Partners, consumers may obtain loans and other financial products from these third-party service providers without having to use our marketplaces. Network Partners can offer loans and other financial products directly to consumers through their own marketing campaigns or other traditional methods of distribution, such as referral arrangements, physical store-front operations or broker agreements. Network Partners may also offer loans and other financial products and services to prospective customers online directly, through one or more online competitors of our businesses, or both. If a significant number of consumers seek loans and other financial products and services directly from Network Partners or through our competitors as opposed to through our marketplaces, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our non-mortgage products are new to the market and may fail to achieve or maintain customer acceptance and profitability. We have launched a number of new non-mortgage products over the last several years. We do not have as much experience with these new non-mortgage products as with the mortgage products and our other mature non-mortgage products. Accordingly, new non-mortgage products may be subject to greater risks than our more mature products. The success of new products we may offer will depend on a number of factors, including: Implementing, at an acceptable cost, product features offered by our competitors and/or expected by consumers, lenders and lead purchasers; Market acceptance by consumers, lenders and lead purchasers; Offerings by current and future competitors; Our ability to attract and retain management and other skilled personnel for these businesses; Our ability to collect amounts owed to us from third parties; Our ability to develop successful and cost-effective marketing campaigns; and Our ability to timely adjust marketing expenditures in relation to changes in demand for the underlying products and services offered by our Network Partners. Our results of operations may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with new products. If we are unable to continually enhance our products and services and adapt them to technological changes and consumer and lender and/or lead purchaser needs, including the emergence of new computing devices and more sophisticated online services, we may lose market share and revenue and our business could suffer. We need to anticipate, develop and introduce new products, services and applications on a timely and cost-effective basis that keep pace with technological developments and changing consumer and customer needs. For example, the number of individuals who access the internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as tablets, mobile telephones, voice assistants, televisions and set-top box devices has increased significantly and this trend is likely to continue. Because each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, our websites may not be functional or viewable on these devices. Additionally, new devices and new platforms are continually being released. Consumers access many traditional web services on mobile devices through applications, or apps. It is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in improving our websites' functionality with these alternative devices or developing apps for mobile platforms. If we fail to develop our websites or apps to respond to these or other technological developments and changing consumer and customer needs cost effectively, or if consumers and customers respond negatively to 15 Table of Contents changes, we may lose market share, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We improve our products and services in ways that forego short-term gains. We are constantly striving to improve the user experience for our consumers who use our websites and applications and for our Network Partners. Some of our changes may have the effect of reducing our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the benefits will ultimately improve our financial performance over the long-term. Any short-term reductions in revenue or profitability could be more severe than we anticipate or these decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our intellectual property rights, including patents, service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property (as applicable), as critical to our success. Our businesses also rely heavily upon software codes, informational databases and other components that make up their products and services. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use trade secrets or registered intellectual property without authorization which, if discovered, might require legal action to correct. In addition, third parties may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar intellectual properties. We have generally registered and continue to apply to register, or secure by contract when appropriate, our principal trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve and register domain names when and where we deem appropriate. We generally consider the protection of our trademarks to be important for purposes of brand maintenance and reputation. While we vigorously protect our trademarks, service marks and domain names, effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which products and services are made available, and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in a meaningful manner or challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit our ability to control marketing on or through the Internet using our various domain names or otherwise, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been granted patents and from time to time we may have patent applications pending with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign patent authorities for various proprietary technologies and other inventions. The status of any patent involves complex legal and factual questions, and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Accordingly, any patent application filed may not result in a patent being issued, or existing or future patents may not be adjudicated valid by a court or be afforded adequate protection against competitors with similar technology. In addition, third parties may create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents that we own. Likewise, the issuance of a patent to us does not mean that our processes or inventions will be found not to infringe upon patents or other rights previously issued to third parties. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business we are subjected to legal proceedings, claims and counterclaims, or threatened legal proceedings, claims or counterclaims, including allegations relating to misappropriation of trade secrets or infringement of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating our risk of loss. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. There may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially and adversely affected. The intended benefits of recent acquisitions may not be realized. Our acquisitions pose risks for our ongoing operations, including, among others: 16 Table of Contents that senior managements attention may be diverted from the management of daily operations to the integration of the businesses acquired in the acquisition; we may be unable to retain key employees of businesses acquired; costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities; that the businesses acquired in the acquisition may not perform as well as anticipated; adverse conditions in the economy may affect the lenders or customers of the acquired businesses and their willingness to issue new credit; advertisers in the business verticals in which we or the acquired businesses operate may be unwilling to advertise on our websites or mobile applications; increased competition and its effect on our or the acquired businesses' website traffic, click-through rates, submitted consumer requests, advertising rates, revenue, margins, and market share; our ability to maintain brand recognition for both us and the acquired businesses and to effectively leverage the LendingTree brand with the newly acquired brands; our ability to develop new products and services and enhance existing ones; assumed liabilities associated with the historical operations of the acquired businesses, including as a result of privacy regulations or data breaches. As a result of the foregoing, our acquisitions may not be accretive to us in the near term or at all. Furthermore, if we fail to realize the intended benefits of the business acquired in the acquisition, the market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects an expectation of those benefits. Other acquisitions or strategic investments that we pursue may not be successful and could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may consider or undertake strategic acquisitions of, or material investments in, businesses, products or technologies. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or even if we do identify suitable candidates, they may be difficult to finance, expensive to fund and there is no guarantee that we can obtain any necessary regulatory approvals or complete such transactions on terms that are favorable to us. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash or through borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, it would reduce our cash balances and/or result in indebtedness we must service, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If the purchase price is paid with our stock, it would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, we may assume liabilities associated with a business acquisition or investment, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment of those liabilities may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. There may also be litigation or other claims arising in connection with an acquisition itself. We may not be able to successfully integrate the personnel, operations, businesses, products or technologies of an acquisition or investment. Integration may be particularly challenging if we enter into a line of business in which we have limited experience and the business operates in a difficult legal, regulatory or competitive environment. We may find that we do not have adequate operations or expertise to manage the new business. The integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management's time and resources from our core business, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners and disrupt our operations. Acquisitions and investments also may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel or customers. If we fail to integrate acquisitions or investments or realize the expected benefits, we may lose the return on these acquisitions or investments or incur additional transaction costs and our business and financial condition may be harmed as a result. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have experienced rapid and significant growth in our headcount and operations, including as a result of acquisitions, which places substantial demand on management and our operational infrastructure. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our services and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our business and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate well-qualified employees, our business could be harmed. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our management team and our highly skilled employees, including our software engineers, analysts, marketing professionals and sales staff. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. The loss of any of our senior management or key employees could materially and adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Network Partners on our marketplaces may not provide competitive levels of service to consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our brands and businesses and their ability to attract consumers. The ability of our businesses to provide consumers with a high-quality experience depends, in part, on consumers receiving competitive levels of convenience, customer service, price and responsiveness from Network Partners participating on our other marketplaces with whom they are matched. If these providers do not provide consumers with competitive levels of convenience, customer service, price and responsiveness, the value of our various brands may be harmed, the ability of our businesses to attract consumers to our websites may be limited and the number of consumers matched through our marketplaces may decline, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our total revenue is derived from two Network Partners, and our results from operations could be adversely affected and stockholder value harmed if we lose significant business from either of these Network Partners. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, one Network Partner accounted for 11% and 15% of total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2016, another Network Partner accounted for 13% of total revenue. If either of these significant Network Partners were to cease purchasing consumer requests and we were unable to replace the associated demand, the loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the short term and potentially also the longer term. Also, if either Network Partner reduces its volume of consumer requests for any reason, our business could be adversely affected. Our current lack of geographic diversity exposes us to risk. Other than a support services office in India, our operations are geographically limited to and dependent upon the economic condition of the United States. As a result of this geographical concentration, we are more vulnerable to downturns or other conditions that affect the US economy. We may choose to expand our operations in order to increase our geographic diversity, and if we do, such expansion would place increased responsibilities on our management, divert resources from other operations and expose us to new risks of foreign operations. We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to be profitable over the long term. We have incurred operating losses from continuing operations at times in our history, and although we were profitable in 2016, 2017 and 2018, we have an accumulated deficit of $610.5 million at December 31, 2018 . If we fail to maintain or grow our revenue and manage our expenses, we may incur significant losses in the future and not be able to maintain profitability. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), which legislation significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. This tax legislation significantly reduced the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate and made other changes that could have a favorable impact on our overall U.S. federal tax liability in a given period. However, the tax legislation also included a number of provisions, including, but not limited to, the limitation or elimination of various deductions or credits (including for interest expense and for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code), the changing of the timing of the recognition of certain income and deductions or their character, and the limitation of asset basis under certain circumstances, that could significantly and adversely affect our U.S. federal income tax position. The legislation also made changes to the tax rules applicable to financial institutions and other entities with which we do business. We revalued deferred tax assets at December 31, 2017 in light of the changes in the TCJA, and we recorded a net tax expense of $9.1 million during the fourth quarter of 2017. 18 Table of Contents The impact of the TCJA and associated anticipated regulations on future years may be material to our consolidated financial statements. For example, we have historically relied extensively on performance-based compensation for our executive officers. The non-deductibility of future performance-based compensation to executive officers, and the expanded definition of covered employees whose compensation is subject to Section 162(m) may have material adverse effects on our effective tax rates. In addition, the limitations on the deductibility of interest may affect our anticipated tax benefits for the convertible note and hedge transactions described in Note 13 Debt to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. Similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our Network Partners or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. Any changes in enacted tax laws (such as the recent U.S. tax legislation), rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2018, we had pre-tax consolidated federal net operating losses (NOLs) of $203.5 million . The federal NOLs no longer expire under the new TCJA. Our NOLs will be available to offset taxable income subject to the limitations found in Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383. In addition, we have state NOLs of approximately $498.5 million at December 31, 2018, that will expire at various times between 2020 and 2038. If we experience one or more ownership changes in the future as a result of future transactions in our stock, our ability to utilize NOLs could be limited. Our ability to use our NOLs was limited by the TCJA. See "U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us." We will need to relocate our corporate headquarters due to our growth and we may experience costs and risks associated with our ownership of a two-building office complex we purchased in Charlotte, North Carolina. Our principal executive offices are currently located in approximately 37,800 square feet of office space in Charlotte, North Carolina under a lease that expires in December 2020. We have determined that we will need to relocate our principal executive offices to accommodate our growth and we are in the process of selecting an alternative site. We will incur relocation costs associated with the movement of employees to a new principal executive office or other sites. We may experience loss of employees or lost employee productivity resulting from this relocation and other work location changes necessitated by our growth. Any of these costs and risks may negatively impact our earnings and cause our stock price to decline. In December 2016, we completed the purchase of two office buildings in Charlotte, North Carolina for an aggregate purchase price of $23.5 million. We currently lease a portion of this space to other tenants. We acquired these buildings with the intent to use such buildings as our principal executive offices in the future, and rent any unused space. In November 2018, our board of directors approved a plan to sell these two office buildings and they were classified as held for sale. In February 2019, we agreed to sell these buildings to an unrelated third party. For additional information, see Item 9B. Other Information and Note 7 - Assets Held For Sale in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. There are costs and risks associated with our leasing and holding this real estate for sale, including: real estate taxes and maintenance costs; financial difficulties or lease defaults by our tenants; tenant turnover and loss of potential tenants to competing landlords; actions by competing landlords that may decrease or prevent increases in the occupancy and rental rates of our properties; costs of compliance with governmental rules and regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, and zoning laws and potential liability thereunder; changes in the cost or availability of adequate insurance, including coverage for mold and asbestos; costs associated with environmental conditions or retained liabilities for such conditions; costs associated with remodeling the buildings; securing required governmental construction, zoning or other approvals and permits; management of modifications in the design to the size and scope of the remodeling or other unforeseen engineering problems; 19 Table of Contents exposure to real estate market conditions affecting the marketability and realizable value of the property; the risk that binding purchase agreements for the sale of properties such as these buildings customarily have a post-signing inspection period during which the buyer is able to terminate the agreement with limited remedies to us as the seller; and the potential for retained liabilities following a sale, such as those imposed under environmental laws or that we may otherwise agree to. Our Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants and other restrictions on our actions, and it could therefore limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. Failure to comply with the terms of any such facility could impair our rights to the assets that have been pledged as collateral under the facility. On November 21, 2017, our wholly-owned subsidiary LendingTree, LLC entered into an amended and restated $250.0 million five-year senior secured revolving credit facility which matures on November 21, 2022 (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). On October 26, 2018, we amended the Revolving Credit Facility to increase its borrowing capacity by $100.0 million to $350.0 million. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility can be used to finance working capital needs, capital expenditures, and general corporate purposes, including to finance permitted acquisitions. As of February 28, 2019, there was $195.0 million borrowed under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility contains a restrictive financial covenant, which limits the total consolidated debt to an EBITDA ratio. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, subject to certain exceptions, restrictions on our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; grant liens; make loans and investments; enter into mergers or make certain fundamental changes; make certain restricted payments, including dividends, distributions, stock repurchases or redemptions; sell assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into restrictive transactions; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into hedging transactions; and engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders. The Revolving Credit Facility requires LendingTree, LLC to pledge as collateral, subject to certain customary exclusions, substantially all of its assets, including 100% of its equity in all of its domestic subsidiaries and 66% of the voting equity, and 100% of the non-voting equity, in all of its material foreign subsidiaries (of which there are currently none). The obligations under this facility are unconditionally guaranteed on a senior basis by LendingTree, Inc. and material domestic subsidiaries of LendingTree, LLC, which guaranties are secured by a pledge as collateral, subject to certain customary exclusions, of 100% of each such guarantor's assets, including 100% of each such guarantors equity in all of its domestic subsidiaries and 66% of the voting equity, and 100% of the non-voting equity, in all of its material foreign subsidiaries (of which there are currently none). If an event of default occurs or if we otherwise fail to comply with any of the negative or affirmative covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility, the lenders may declare all of the obligations and indebtedness under such facility due and payable. In such a scenario, the lenders could exercise their lien on the pledged collateral, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. For additional information on the Revolving Credit Facility, see Note 13 Debt, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 20 Table of Contents If our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), we review the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis as of October 1, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry or our customers' industries. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during a period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. Under GAAP, when we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets acquired at their acquisition date fair values. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. We also estimate the fair value of any contingent consideration. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are uncertain and involve significant judgments by management. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; impairment of long-lived assets; identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities; changes in the fair value of any contingent consideration; charges to our operating results due to duplicative pre-merger activities; charges to our operating results from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. Substantially all of these potential charges would be accounted for as expenses that would decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our acquisitions and the extent of acquisition accounting adjustments. For acquisitions with potential future contingent consideration payments, we assign a fair value to the contingent consideration and reassess this fair value quarterly. Increases or decreases based on the actual performance of the acquired company against the contingent consideration targets or other factors will cause decreases or increases, respectively, in our results of operations. These quarterly adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During 2018 and 2017, we incurred $10.8 million and $23.9 million, respectively, of contingent consideration expense due to the change in estimated fair value of the earnout payments. Risks Related to Compliance and Regulation Failure to comply with past, existing or new laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain and maintain required licenses, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We market and provide services in heavily regulated industries through a number of different channels across the United States. As a result, our businesses have been and remain subject to a variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions in the United States, which are subject to change at any time. The failure of our businesses to comply with past, existing or new laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain and maintain required licenses, could result in administrative fines and/or proceedings against us or our businesses by governmental agencies and/or litigation by consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our brand. Our businesses conduct marketing activities via the telephone, the mail and/or through online marketing channels, which general marketing activities are governed by numerous federal and state regulations, such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, state 21 Table of Contents telemarketing laws, federal and state privacy laws, the CAN-SPAM Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act and its accompanying regulations and guidelines, among others. Increased regulation by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") has resulted in restrictions on telephone calls to residential and wireless telephone subscribers. Additional federal, state and in some instances, local laws regulate secured and unsecured lending activities, which impacts the marketplace, lenders and consumers. These laws generally regulate the manner in which lending and lending-related activities are marketed or made available, including advertising and other consumer disclosures, payments for services and record keeping requirements; these laws include RESPA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and various state laws. State laws often restrict the amount (and nature) of interest and fees that may be charged by a lender or mortgage broker, or otherwise regulate the manner in which lenders or mortgage brokers operate or advertise. State, federal and foreign lending laws and regulations generally require accurate disclosure of the critical components of credit costs so that consumers can readily compare credit terms from various lenders. These laws and regulations also impose certain restrictions on the advertisement of these credit terms. Because we are an aggregator of rate and other information regarding many financial products, including mortgages, deposits and credit cards, we may be subject to some of these laws and regulations and we may be held liable under these laws and regulations for information provided through our online services. The insurance industry is also subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including licensing requirements. Our operations in India may subject us to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of or inability to renew required licenses or registrations, loss of approval status, termination of contracts without compensation, administrative enforcement actions and fines, private lawsuits, including those styled as class actions, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. Most states require licenses to solicit, broker or make loans secured by residential mortgages and other consumer loans to residents of those states, as well as to operate real estate referral and brokerage services, and in many cases require the licensure or registration of individual employees engaged in aspects of these businesses. Further, as mandated by the federal Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (the "SAFE Act"), states adopted certain minimum standards for the licensing of individuals involved in mortgage lending or loan brokering. Compliance with these requirements may render it more difficult for us and our Network Partners to operate or may raise our internal costs or the costs of our Network Partners, which may be passed on to us through less favorable commercial arrangements. While our businesses have endeavored to comply with applicable requirements, the application of these requirements to persons operating online is not always clear. Moreover, any of the licenses or rights currently held by our businesses or our employees may be revoked prior to, or may not be renewed upon, their expiration. In addition, our businesses or our employees may not be granted new licenses or rights for which they may be required to apply from time to time in the future. Likewise, states or municipalities may adopt statutes or regulations making it unattractive, impracticable or infeasible for our businesses to continue to conduct business in such jurisdictions. The withdrawal from any jurisdiction due to emerging legal requirements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are also subject to various state, federal and/or local laws, rules and regulations that regulate the amount and nature of fees that may be charged for transactions and incentives, such as rebates, that may be offered to consumers by our businesses, as well as the manner in which these businesses may offer, advertise or promote transactions. For example, RESPA generally prohibits the payment or receipt of referral fees and fee shares or splits in connection with residential mortgage loan transactions, subject to certain exceptions. The applicability of referral fee and fee sharing prohibitions to lenders and real estate providers, including online networks, may have the effect of reducing the types and amounts of fees that may be charged or paid in connection with real estate-secured loan offerings or activities, including mortgage brokerage, lending and real estate brokerage services, or otherwise limiting our and our Network Partners' ability to conduct marketing and referral activities. Various federal, state and, in some instances, local, laws also prohibit unfair and deceptive sales practices. We have adopted appropriate policies and procedures to address these requirements (such as appropriate consumer disclosures and call scripting, call monitoring and other quality assurance and compliance measures), but it is not possible to ensure that all employees comply with our policies and procedures at all times. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations is a significant component of our internal costs, and new laws, rules and regulations are frequently proposed and adopted, requiring us to adopt new procedures and practices. Changes to existing laws, rules and regulations or changes to interpretation of existing laws, rules and regulations could result in further restriction of activities incidental to our business and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Parties through which our businesses conduct business similarly may be subject to federal and state regulation. These parties typically act as independent contractors and not as agents in their solicitations and transactions with consumers. We cannot ensure that these entities will comply with applicable laws and regulations at all times. Failure on the part of a lender, website operator or other third party to comply with these laws or regulations could result in, among other things, claims of vicarious liability or a negative impact on our reputation and business. Regulatory authorities and private plaintiffs may allege that we failed to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations where we believe we have complied. These allegations may relate to past conduct and/or past business operations, such as our discontinued mortgage origination operation (which was subject to various state and local laws, rules and regulations). Even allegations that our activities have not complied or do not comply with all applicable laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The alleged violation of such laws, rules or regulations may entitle an individual plaintiff to seek monetary damages, or may entitle an enforcing government agency to seek significant civil or criminal penalties, costs and attorneys' fees. Regardless of its merit, an allegation typically requires legal fee expenditures to defend against. We have in the past and may in the future decide to settle allegations of non-compliance with laws, rules and regulations when we determine that the cost of settlement is less than the cost and risk of continuing to defend against an allegation. Settlements may require us to pay monetary fines and may require us to adopt new procedures and practices, which may render it more difficult to operate or may raise our internal costs. The future occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In response to conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, as well as a heightened regulatory and Congressional focus on consumer lending, regulators have increased their scrutiny of the financial services industry, the result of which has included new regulations and guidance. We are unable to predict the long-term impact of this enhanced scrutiny. We are also unable to predict whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. The collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. In the processing of consumer transactions, our businesses receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The collection, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by us and our businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and data security, and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure, protection of, and a natural person's rights relating to and in their personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. In the United States, regulations and interpretations concerning personally identifiable and data security promulgated by state and federal regulators, including the CFPB and FTC, could conflict or give rise to differing views of personal privacy rights. We could be materially and adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, procedures, and controls relating to the privacy and data security of personal information or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third-party vendors and service providers with whom we do business, or the perceived failure, to comply with applicable privacy and data security policies, procedures, or controls, or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the theft, unauthorized access, acquisition, use, disclosure, or misappropriation of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of these businesses, discourage potential users from our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings or litigation by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the regulation of the Internet could negatively affect our business. Laws, rules and regulations governing Internet communications, advertising and e-commerce are dynamic and the extent of future government regulation is uncertain. Federal and state regulations govern various aspects of our online business, including intellectual property ownership and infringement, trade secrets, the distribution of electronic communications, marketing and advertising, user privacy and data security, search engines and Internet tracking technologies. Future taxation on the use of the Internet or e-commerce transactions could also be imposed. Existing or future regulation or taxation could hinder growth in or negatively impact the use of the Internet generally, including the viability of Internet e-commerce, which could reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses and expose us to significant liabilities. 23 Table of Contents If Network Partners fail to produce required documents for examination by, or other affiliated parties fail to make certain filings with, state regulators, we may be subject to fines, forfeitures and the revocation of required licenses. Some of the states in which our businesses maintain licenses require them to collect various loan documents from Network Partners and produce these documents for examination by state regulators. While Network Partners are contractually obligated to provide these documents upon request, these measures may be insufficient. Failure to produce required documents for examination could result in fines, as well as the revocation of our licenses to operate in certain states, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations promulgated by some states may impose compliance obligations on directors, executive officers, large customers and any person who acquires a certain percentage (for example, 10% or more) of the equity in a licensed entity, including requiring such persons to periodically file financial and other personal and business information with state regulators. If any such person refuses or fails to comply with these requirements, we may be unable to obtain certain licenses and existing licensing arrangements may be jeopardized. The inability to obtain, or the loss of, required licenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock Fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in significant decreases in the price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has been volatile since our spin-off. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, causing significant price variations to occur. As of December 31, 2018, since our spin-off, the price per share of our common stock has fluctuated from an intra-day low of $1.42 per share to an intra-day high of $404.40 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: variations in our quarterly operating and financial results; variations in our projected operating and financial results; failure to meet analysts' earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us, our Network Partners or our industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common shares or our industry; additions or departures of key management personnel; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or preferred or common shares we may issue in the future; actions by stockholders, including "activist" investors; changes in market valuations of other companies in our industry, including our customers and competitors; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; speculation in the press or investment community, including short selling; changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting our industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; changes in estimated fair value of contingent consideration related to acquisitions; and changes in general economic or market conditions. Recently, and in the past, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the trading price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment in our common shares. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business or financial results, including in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if those events do not directly affect us. You should also be aware that price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock are low. These factors may result in short-term or long-term negative pressure on the value of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for internet marketplace operators and lead-generation companies depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about the industry and specific companies. If one or more analysts covering us currently or in the future fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decline, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. If one or more recognized securities or industry analysts that cover our company or our industry in the future downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or industry, our stock price would likely decline. Two holders of our common stock own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which concentrates voting control and limits your ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 20, 2019 , Douglas Lebda, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock. Additionally, Mr. Lebda holds restricted stock unit awards representing 9,896 shares and options to purchase a maximum of 797,082 shares that are not included in beneficial ownership because Mr. Lebda does not have the right to acquire them within 60 days. If these restricted stock units were to settle and these options were exercisable, they would represent additional beneficial ownership of approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock. As of February 20, 2019 , GCI Liberty, Inc. beneficially owned approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. GCI Liberty, Inc. also has the right to nominate 20% of the total number of directors serving on the board, rounded up. Two of our ten directors, Neal Dermer and Craig Troyer, were nominated by Liberty Interactive Corporation, the predecessor in interest of GCI Liberty, Inc. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, Mr. Lebda and GCI Liberty, Inc. will each have influence over our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal (with or without cause) of directors and approval of any significant corporate transaction, such as a merger or other sale of us or our assets. The interests of Mr. Lebda or GCI Liberty, Inc. may not necessarily align with the interests of our other stockholders. Mr. Lebda or GCI Liberty, Inc. could elect to sell a significant interest in us and you may receive less than the then-current fair market value or the price you paid for your shares as a result of such transaction. This concentrated control could delay, defer or prevent a change of control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us that other stockholders may otherwise support. This concentrated control could also discourage a potential investor from acquiring our common stock and might harm the market price of our common stock. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future pursuant to current or future equity incentive plans, or in connection with current or future acquisitions or financings. If we were to raise capital in the future by selling shares of our common stock, or securities that are convertible into our common stock or issuing shares of our common stock in a business acquisition, their issuance would have a dilutive effect on the percentage ownership of our stockholders and, depending on the prices at which such shares or convertible securities are sold or issued, on their investment in our common stock and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the market prices of our common stock. Under a registration rights agreement with GCI Liberty, Inc., GCI Liberty, Inc. and its permitted transferees are entitled to three demand registrations rights (and unlimited piggyback registration rights) in respect of the shares of our common stock received by GCI Liberty, Inc. as a result of the spin-off and other shares of our common stock acquired by GCI Liberty, Inc. or its affiliates. These holders will also be permitted to exercise their registration rights in connection with certain hedging transactions that they may enter into in respect of the registrable shares. The presence of additional shares of our common stock trading in the public market, as a result of the exercise of such registration rights, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult, limit attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our management and affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and/or amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: Authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to five million shares of undesignated preferred stock, sometimes referred to as "blank check preferred"; 25 Table of Contents Prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; Provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office or by the sole remaining director; Provide that only our board of directors may change the size of our board of directors; Specify that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a person specifically designated with such authority by the board; and Prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent. The provisions described above may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing our management. These provisions may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, even if stockholders support such a change of control. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock during the six most recent fiscal years. We have no current intention to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. See Note 13 Debt, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. The declaration, payment and amount of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for the foreseeable future for holders of our common stock. Our financial results fluctuate as a result of seasonality, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance and may adversely affect our common stock price. Our mortgage products business is historically subject to seasonal trends. These trends reflect the general patterns of the mortgage industry and housing sales, which typically peak in the spring and summer seasons. In recent periods, broader cyclical trends in interest rates, as well as the mortgage and real estate markets, have upset the customary seasonal trends. However, seasonal trends may resume and our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our non-mortgage products businesses have various seasonality trends which may create further uncertainty in our quarterly operating results. See Item 1. BusinessSeasonality included elsewhere in this report for more information. Any of these seasonal trends, or the combination of them, may negatively impact the price of our common stock. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. While the conditional conversion feature of the 0.625% Convertible Senior Notes due June 1, 2022 (the Notes) is triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. Because of the trading price of our common stock during the measurement period applicable to the quarter ended December 31, 2018, holders of the Notes are not entitled to convert the Notes during the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2019. Convertibility for each quarter thereafter will be determined based on whether the last reported sales price of our common stock, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on, and including, the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price under the Notes on each applicable trading day. If so, then the Notes will be convertible during that calendar quarter. The Notes will also be convertible at any time during the five business day period immediately following any five consecutive trading day period in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for each trading Day of such five trading day period is less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock on each such trading day and the conversion ratio under the Notes, as more fully described in the indenture governing the Notes, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this annual report. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. 26 Table of Contents We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Notes in cash or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes. Holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid special interest, if any. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefore, or pay cash with respect to Notes being converted if we elect not to issue shares, which could harm our reputation and affect the trading price of our common stock. Our hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the Notes and our common stock. In connection with the pricing of the Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain counterparties. The hedge transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be. We also entered into warrant transactions with such counterparties. However, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. The initial strike price of the warrants is $266.39. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of the hedge and warrant transactions, the counterparties or their respective affiliates may have purchased shares of our common stock and/or entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the Notes. In addition, the counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes or following any repurchase of Notes by us on any fundamental repurchase date or otherwise). This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Notes. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as debt discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include the current periods amortization of the debt discount, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes. We may still incur substantially more debt in the future or take other actions which would intensify the risks associated with our debt. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. We are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the Notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the Notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the Notes when due. Our existing credit facility restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, but if the facility matures or is repaid, we may not be subject to such restrictions under the terms of any subsequent indebtedness. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 2. Properties 27 Table of Contents Our principal executive offices are currently located in approximately 37,800 square feet of office space in Charlotte, North Carolina under a lease that expires in December 2020. We have determined that we will need to relocate our principal executive offices to accommodate our growth and we are in the process of selecting an alternative site. In addition, we have offices located in approximately 9,400 square feet of office space in Burlingame, California under a lease that expires in March 2020 and approximately 9,400 square feet, 13,100 square feet and 27,800 square feet of additional office space in Charlotte, North Carolina under leases that expire in April 2019, December 2020 and September 2021, respectively. As a result of our acquisitions during 2018, 2017 and 2016, we also operate offices in: Charleston, South Carolina; Denver, Colorado; Jacksonville, Florida; New York City, New York; Northbrook, Illinois; Sacramento, California; Seattle, Washington; and Makarba, India. In December 2016, we completed the acquisition of two office buildings in Charlotte, North Carolina, with approximately 64,000 and 73,000 square feet of office space, respectively. In November 2018, the office buildings were classified as held for sale. In February 2019, we agreed to sell these buildings to an unrelated third party. For additional information, see Item 9B. Other Information and see Note 7 Assets Held for Sale in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of business, we are party to litigation involving property, contract, intellectual property and a variety of other claims. The amounts that may be recovered in such matters may be subject to insurance coverage. See Note 15 Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for a discussion of our current and recently settled litigation. ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities General Market Information, Holders and Dividends Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol "TREE". As of February 20, 2019 , there were approximately 660 holders of record of our common stock. We have no current intention to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The declaration, payment and amount of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Performance Graph The performance graph shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. Set forth below is a line graph, for the period from December 31, 2013 through December 31, 2018, comparing the cumulative total stockholder return of $100 invested (assuming that all dividends were reinvested) in (1) our common stock, (2) the cumulative return of all companies listed on the Nasdaq Composite Index and (3) the cumulative total return of the Research Development Group ("RDG") Internet index. Returns over the indicated periods should not be considered indicative of future stock prices or stockholder returns. 29 Table of Contents Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds During the year ended December 31, 2018 , we did not issue or sell any shares of our common stock or other equity securities in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In each of May 2014, January 2016, February 2016, February 2018 and February 2019, the board of directors authorized and we announced a stock repurchase program which allowed for the repurchase of up to $10.0 million, $50.0 million, $40.0 million, $100.0 million and $150.0 million, respectively, of our common stock. Under this program, we can repurchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions. We have used available cash to finance these repurchases. We will determine the timing and amount of any additional repurchases based on our evaluation of market conditions, applicable SEC guidelines and regulations, and other factors. This program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at the discretion of our board of directors. During the quarter ended December 31, 2018 , 174,139 shares of common stock were repurchased under the stock repurchase program. As of February 28, 2019, approximately $181.2 million is authorized for future share repurchases. Additionally, the LendingTree Fifth Amended and Restated 2008 Stock and Award Incentive Plan and the LendingTree 2017 Inducement Grant Plan allow employees to forfeit shares of our common stock to satisfy federal and state withholding obligations upon the exercise of stock options, the settlement of restricted stock unit awards and the vesting of restricted stock awards granted to those individuals under the plans. During the quarter ended December 31, 2018 , 8,586 shares were purchased related to these obligations under the LendingTree Fifth Amended and Restated 2008 Stock and Award Incentive Plan and no shares have yet been purchased related to these obligations under the LendingTree 2017 Inducement Grant Plan. The withholding of those shares does not affect the dollar amount or number of shares that may be purchased under the stock repurchase program described above. The following table provides information about the Company's purchases of equity securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 . Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (2) Maximum Number/Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (in thousands) 10/1/18 - 10/31/18 177,185 $ 203.46 174,039 $ 35,163 11/1/18 - 11/30/18 4,915 $ 231.70 $ 35,163 12/1/18 - 12/31/18 625 $ 233.24 100 $ 35,143 Total 182,725 $ 204.32 174,139 $ 35,143 (1) During October 2018, November 2018 and December 2018, 3,146 shares, 4,915 shares and 525 shares, respectively (totaling 8,586 shares), were purchased to satisfy federal and state withholding obligations of our employees upon the settlement of restricted stock unit awards, all in accordance with our Fifth Amended and Restated 2008 Stock and Award Incentive Plan, as described above. (2) See the narrative disclosure above the table for further description of our publicly announced stock repurchase program. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The summary financial data presented below represents portions of our consolidated financial statements and are not complete. The following financial information should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in