Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investments in Quarterly Originations by Investment Channel and Investor Concentration for further discussion of and information regarding our investor concentration. Credit scoring and decisioning Our lending marketplace provides an integrated and automated loan application and credit decisioning and scoring process that incorporates underwriting, pricing and fraud detection. Borrowers come to our platform to apply online for a loan. During the simple application process, our platform uses proprietary risk algorithms that leverage behavioral data, transactional data and employment information to supplement traditional risk assessment tools, such as FICO scores, to assess a borrowers risk profile. Borrowers are then assigned a loan grade based on their risk profile, loan term and loan amount. For certain loans, our verification processes and analysts then verify the borrowers identity, income or employment by connecting with various data providers to determine whether to approve the loan request, in accordance with the issuing banks credit policy. We utilize an outsourced provider to assist us in the processing of certain loan applications. Our lending marketplaces credit decisioning and scoring models are evaluated on a regular basis and the additional data on loan history experience, borrower behavior, economic factors and prepayment trends that we accumulate are leveraged through machine learning and can be rapidly deployed to make modifications to the models. This information assists us in assessing if and when to propose further changes to the credit model or pricing for consideration by the issuing banks who originate loans facilitated through our platform. Our lending marketplaces credit decisioning and scoring models assign each loan offered on our lending marketplace a corresponding interest rate and origination fee. We believe we have the experience and capabilities to effectively evaluate a borrowers credit worthiness and likelihood of default, offering competitive risk-adjusted return opportunities for loan investors. Loan Servicing We service the majority of the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace, except for patient and education finance loans and auto refinance loans. Loan servicing includes account maintenance, collections, processing payments from borrowers and distributions to investors. We utilize a business process outsourcing provider and various third-party collection agencies to assist us in the servicing of certain loans. We also have made arrangements for backup servicing with First Associates Loan Servicing, LLC and Millennium Trust Company, LLC. Payments for loans that we service are primarily made through an ACH withdrawal from the borrowers bank account. Principal and interest payments on loans are then remitted to investors utilizing ACH. This automated process provides a higher degree of certainty for timely payments. This process also provides us with prompt notice in the event of a missed payment, which allows us to respond quickly to attempt to resolve the delinquency with the borrower. Generally, in the first 30 days that a loan is delinquent, our Payment Solutions team works to bring the account current. Once the loan becomes more than 30 days delinquent, we will typically outsource subsequent servicing efforts to third-party collection agencies. The servicing fee paid by investors is designed to cover the day-to-day processing costs of loans. If a loan needs more intensive collection focus, whether internal or external, we may charge investors a collection fee to compensate us for the costs of this collection activity. There is no collection fee charged if no loan payments are 9 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION recovered. We sell most loans that have been charged-off to third parties. All proceeds received on these sales are subject to a collection fee. Seasonality Personal loan volume on our platform is generally lower in the first quarter of the year, primarily due to seasonality of borrower behavior. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of the year, we typically observe fluctuations in marketing effectiveness and borrower behavior due to the holidays, which can impact volume. These seasonal trends contribute to fluctuations in our operating results and operating cash flow. Revenue Transaction Fees : We generate revenue primarily from transaction fees paid by issuing banks or education and patient service providers to us for our platforms role in marketing to borrowers, and accepting and decisioning applications for our issuing bank partners to facilitate loan originations. The amount of these fees is based upon the terms of the loan, including amount, grade, term, channel and other factors. Net Investor Revenue includes net interest income and fair value adjustments of loans and securities available for sale, gain on sales of loans invested in by the Company and investor fees from servicing of loans. Net Interest Income and Fair Value Adjustments reflect earned interest income and assumed principal and interest rate risk on loans during the period that we own the loans. We have financed a portion of the purchase of these loans with draws on our credit facilities and securities sold under repurchase agreements and the associated interest expense reduces net interest income. Fair value adjustments are impacted by timing differences between changes in market interest rates, interest rates on loans, credit performance and investor yield expectations, which may result in a difference between the actual yield and the investor required yield on a loan. This allows us to adjust the effective yield on a loan through its sale price, thereby maintaining marketplace equilibrium. Any discount to par will result in negative fair value adjustments. Investor Fees compensate us for the costs we incur in servicing loans, including managing payments from borrowers, collections, payments to investors, maintaining investors account portfolios, providing information and issuing monthly statements. The amount of investor fee revenue earned is predominantly affected by the servicing rates paid by investors, the outstanding principal balance of loans and the amount of principal and interest collected from borrowers and remitted to investors. Investor fee revenue related to whole loans sold also includes the change in fair value of our servicing assets and liabilities associated with the loans. Gain (Loss) on Sales of Loans connected to whole loan sales and Structured Program transactions are recognized based on the level to which the contractual loan servicing fee is above or below an estimated market rate loan servicing fee. Additionally, we recognize transactions costs as a loss on sale of loans. Referral Revenue fees are earned from third-party companies when customers referred by us consider or purchase products or services from such third-party companies. Regulatory and Compliance Framework The regulatory environment for lending and online marketplaces such as ours is complex, evolving and uncertain, creating both challenges and opportunities that could affect our financial performance. We are subject to extensive and complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination by various federal, state and local government authorities designed to, among other things, protect borrowers (such as truth in lending, equal credit opportunity, fair credit reporting and fair debt collection practices) and investors (such as the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws). State and federal laws may limit the fees that may be assessed on the loans facilitated through our platform, require extensive disclosure to, and consents from, borrowers and investors, prohibit discrimination and unfair, deceptive, 10 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION or abusive acts or practices and may impose multiple qualification and licensing obligations on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace. Failure to comply with any of these rules, regulations or requirements may result in, among other things, lawsuits (including class action lawsuits) or administrative enforcement actions seeking monetary damages, fines or civil monetary penalties, restitution or other payments to borrowers or investors, modifications to business practices, revocation of required licenses or registrations, or voiding of loan contracts. Our compliance framework is a cornerstone of the lending marketplace that allows investors to participate in consumer credit as an asset class. Our relationship with issuing banks is a key component of our compliance framework, as described below. WebBank, the primary bank whose loans we facilitate, is subject to oversight by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank, whose education and patient finance loans we facilitate, are our two other issuing banks. NBT Bank is subject to oversight by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and Comenity Capital Bank is subject to oversight by the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. These authorities impose obligations and restrictions on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace. As part of our ongoing compliance program, we have customer identification processes in place to enable us to detect and prevent fraud, money laundering, and terrorist financing, and identify customers who may be on government watchlists, such as those from the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. We compare users identities against these lists at least twice a month for continued compliance and oversight. If a user were to appear on a list, we would take appropriate action to resolve the issue in accordance with company policies and anti-money laundering regulations. In addition to our identification and transaction monitoring compliance programs, we use technology to assist us in complying with applicable federal anti-money laundering laws on both sides of our platform for borrowers and investors. Regulations and Licensing The lending and securities industries are highly regulated and we are subject to direct oversight by a number of federal and state governmental authorities. In certain respects, we are regulated differently than a bank because, unlike a bank, we do not take deposits or issue our own loans under a bank charter. Our current issuing banks originate all of the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace and are subject to regulation by the FDIC and/or other relevant federal and state regulators. Further, federal and state governmental authorities impose additional obligations, direct oversight and restrictions on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace as part of their oversight of the third-party service providers of the issuing banks. While compliance with such requirements is at times complicated by our business model, the Company strives to ensure compliance with all applicable rules and regulations. Current Regulatory Environment We believe that our issuing bank partnership model is appropriate for all the jurisdictions in which we operate and we strive to work with federal, state and local regulatory agencies to help them understand our model and its benefits for consumers. However, we operate in a complex and evolving regulatory environment at the federal and state level and some enforcement authorities and private parties have challenged the ability of nonbank agents in certain lending programs, in some cases with similarities to ours, to rely on legislative and judicial authority that permits an FDIC-insured depository institution, such as WebBank, to "export" interest rates permitted by the laws of the state where the bank is located, regardless of the usury limitations imposed by the laws of the state of the borrowers residence. 11 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Madden and Regulatory Landscape Relating to Bank Partnership Model In May 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its decision in Madden v. Midland Funding , LLC that interpreted the scope of federal preemption under the National Bank Act (NBA) and held that a nonbank assignee of a loan originated by a national bank was not entitled to the benefits of federal preemption of claims of usury. The Second Circuits decision is binding on federal courts located in Connecticut, New York, and Vermont, but the decision could also be adopted by other courts. An extension of the application of the Second Circuit's decision, either within or outside the states in the Second Circuit, could challenge the federal preemption of state laws setting interest rate limitations for loans made by issuing bank partners in those states. The defendant petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to review the decision and in March 2016, the Court invited the Solicitor General to file a brief expressing the views of the U.S. on the petition. The Solicitor General filed an amicus brief that stated the Second Circuit decision was incorrect, but that the case was not yet ready to be heard by the Supreme Court. In June 2016, the Supreme Court declined to hear the case. In June 2019, certain Capital One and Chase credit card holders filed putative class actions in U.S. District Court in New York against certain non-bank Capital One and Chase special purpose entities and trusts, and the trustees thereof, that purchased and/or played a role in facilitating the securitization of Capital One and Chase credit card receivables. The plaintiffs allege that the preemption of New York usury laws by the National Bank Act (NBA) ceased once the credit card receivables were purchased and securitized by or via the non-bank defendants and therefore any interest being charged on the securitized receivables in excess of New Yorks usury limits violates New York law. The plaintiffs seek to recoup the allegedly excessive interest payments and an order requiring the defendants to cease their allegedly wrongful conduct, among other relief. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits aim to leverage the Second Circuits decision in Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC that interpreted the scope of federal preemption under the NBA and held that a non-bank debt collector that purchased a loan originated by a national bank was not entitled to the benefits of federal preemption of claims of usury. In September 2019, the OCC and the FDIC filed an amicus brief in U.S. District Court in Colorado supporting a bankruptcy courts rejection of the Madden case in a case before it. In re Rent-Rite Super Kegs West Ltd., Case No. 1:19-cv-015520-REB (D. Colo.), Dkt.11. In addition, in late 2019 the OCC issued a proposed rulemaking to amend its regulations to clarify that interest on a loan that is lawful under federal law for national banks and federal savings associations remains lawful upon the sale, assignment or other transfer of the loan. The FDIC issued a similar proposal that is applicable to FDIC insured state-chartered banks. Various comments to the proposed rules were submitted from a variety of companies and other regulators. It is unclear what impact the position of these various regulators on the Madden decision will have in existing or future litigation or regulatory proceedings involving arguments of federal preemption of state usury laws. In addition, a bill was passed in late 2017 by the House of Representatives that could clarify that any loan originated by a national bank would be entitled to the benefits of federal preemption on claims of usury provided that certain criteria are met. However, the bill was never passed by the Senate and we do not know whether this bill will be reintroduced in the current Congress or, if it is, whether it will pass or, if it does pass, what its final terms will be or its potential impact on our business. Although we believe that our program is factually distinguishable from the Madden case, an extension of the application of the Second Circuit's decision, either within or outside the states in the Second Circuit, could challenge the federal preemption of state laws setting interest rate limitations for loans made by issuing bank partners in those states. Financial Technology Industry Regulatory Environment At the state level, certain states are considering the scope of their regulation and oversight of the financial technology industry. For example, we have participated with other financial technology companies in providing information and perspective to the California Department of Business Oversight. The application of state laws to our business, now or as they may be written or interpreted in the future, could have a significant impact on our 12 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION ability to do business in any given state. See Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Regulatory Environment for further discussion of applicable matters in Colorado and New York. The CFPB, which commenced operations in July 2011, has broad authority over the businesses in which we engage. This includes authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and to enforce those laws against and examine large financial institutions, such as our issuing banks, for compliance. The CFPB is authorized to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices through its regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority. We are subject to the regulatory and enforcement authority of the CFPB, as a facilitator, servicer or acquirer of consumer credit. Since its creation, the CFPB has announced larger participant rules to expand its supervisory authority in various areas of the financial industry. The CFPB has announced larger participant rules for auto lenders, and as our auto refinance business grows, we may eventually meet the definition of a larger participant in the auto loan arena and become subject to supervision, examination and greater oversight by the CFPB. The CFPB has not yet announced specifics regarding its proposed rulemaking for installment loan lenders and, consequently, there continues to be uncertainty as to how the CFPBs strategies and priorities, including any final rules, will impact our unsecured installment loan business and our results of operations going forward. Also in July 2018, the United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury) issued a report entitled, A Financial System That Creates Economic Opportunities: Nonbank Financials, Fintech, and Innovation (Treasury Report). In the Treasury Report, the Treasury sought to identify improvements to the regulatory landscape that will better support nonbank financial institutions, embrace financial technology, and foster innovation. In the Treasury Report, the Treasury recommended that Congress codify (or regulators clarify) that a bank originating loans through a partnership with a third party (including financial technology companies) remains the true lender and that the loans may be fully enforceable according to their terms. State Licensing Requirements In most states we believe, because of our issuing bank model, we are exempt from or satisfy relevant licensing requirements with respect to the origination of loans we facilitate. However, we may need, and have obtained, one or more state licenses to broker, acquire, service and/or enforce loans. As needed, we have endeavored to apply for and obtain the appropriate licenses. In addition, we have applied for and obtained certain licenses in a number of states that we believe are not necessary to conduct our current activities, but which may facilitate potential evolutions of our business model and provide transparency and an opportunity for interaction with state licensing authorities. Where we have obtained licenses, state licensing statutes may impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on us, including: record-keeping requirements; restrictions on servicing practices, including limits on finance charges and fees; restrictions on collections; usury rate caps; disclosure requirements; examination requirements; surety bond and minimum net worth requirements; financial reporting requirements; notification requirements for changes in principal officers, stock ownership or corporate control; restrictions on marketing and advertising; data security and privacy requirements; and review requirements for loan forms. 13 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION These statutes may also subject us to the supervisory and examination authority of state regulators in certain cases, and we have experienced, are currently and will likely continue to be subject to and experience exams by state regulators. These examinations have and may continue to result in findings or recommendations that require us to modify our internal controls and/or business practices. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Regulation , Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Regulatory Environment and Part II