Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Overview. Robust Network Effects. Our online lending marketplace exhibits network effects that are driven by the number of participants and investments enabled through our lending marketplace. More participation leads to greater potential to match borrowers with investors. Additionally, increased participation also results in the generation of substantial data that is used to improve the effectiveness of our credit decisioning and scoring models, enhancing our performance record and generating increasing trust in our lending marketplace. As trust increases, we believe investors will continue to demonstrate a willingness to accept lower risk premiums (all else being equal), which will allow us to offer lower interest rates and attract additional high-quality borrowers, thereby reinforcing our track record and fueling a virtuous cycle for our business. Technology Platform. Our technology platform powers our online lending marketplace and enables us to deliver proprietary solutions to borrowers and investors. Our technology platform automates our operations and, we believe, provides a significant time and cost advantage over many traditional banks. 5 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Proprietary Risk Assessment. We use proprietary algorithms that leverage behavioral data, transactional data, bank data and employment information to supplement traditional risk assessment tools, such as Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) scores. We have built our technology platform to automate the application of these proprietary algorithms to each individual borrowers application profile at scale. This approach allows us to evaluate and segment each potential borrowers risk profile and price the loan accordingly. Products Borrowers Our lending marketplace facilitates several types of loan products for consumers and small businesses. Personal Loans. Our lending marketplace facilitates unsecured personal loans that can be used to make major purchases, refinance credit card balances or for other purposes. Personal loans are offered through both our standard and custom loan programs. Personal loans approved through our standard loan program represent loans made to prime borrowers that are publicly available to note investors and through certificates, loan sales and securitizations to private investors, and include amounts from $1,000 to $40,000 , maturities of three or five years, fixed interest rates, and no prepayment penalties or fees. These loans must meet certain minimum credit requirements, including a FICO score of at least 660 , satisfactory debt-to-income ratios, 36 months of credit history and a limited number of credit inquiries in the previous six months. Personal loans that fall outside of the credit criteria for the standard program might qualify under our custom program and include amounts from $1,000 to $50,000, maturities of three or five years, fixed interest rates and no prepayment penalties or fees. Education and Patient Finance Loans. We facilitate unsecured education and patient installment loans and true no-interest loans through Springstone and its issuing bank partners. Installment loan terms include amounts from $2,000 to $50,000 , maturities from two to seven years, fixed interest rates and no prepayment penalties. The true no-interest loan terms include amounts ranging from $499 to $32,000 and no required interest payment if the balance is paid in full during the promotional period, which can be six , 12 , 18 or 24 months. There is no prepayment penalty and borrowers have the flexibility to pay as much or as little, subject to applicable minimums, of the outstanding principal balance during the promotional period as they choose. Auto Refinancing Loans . We facilitate secured auto refinance loans that can be used to help eligible consumers save money by refinancing into more affordable loans with better rates and clear terms. Installment loan terms include amounts ranging from $5,000 to $55,000, with maturities ranging from two to six years. Borrowers are required to make monthly amortizing payments, and there are no prepayment penalties. We currently facilitate loans in 29 states, with plans to expand to more states in 2018. Small Business Loans. We facilitate unsecured small business loans that enable small business owners to expand their business, purchase equipment or inventory, or meet other obligations at an affordable rate. Small business loans are fixed-rate loans in amounts ranging from $5,000 to $300,000 , with maturities of one to five years, and contain no prepayment penalties or fees. Investors Investors have the opportunity to invest in a wide range of loans based on term and credit characteristics. Personal loans that are approved through the standard loan program are offered to all investors on our platform, with the exception of certain F & G grade notes the Company decided to suspend offering for investment by retail investors, as discussed in Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Current Economic and Business Environment. Custom program loans, which include education and patient finance, auto refinance, small business, new offerings, and loans that fall outside of the credit criteria of the standard program, are offered to private investors only. Investors receive monthly cash flow and risk-adjusted returns. All investors are provided access to a borrowers proprietary credit grade and credit profile data on each approved and listed loan, as well as historical performance data on loans issued through our lending marketplace since its inception. The lending marketplace 6 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION enables broad diversification of each investors capital by allowing distribution of investments in loans in increments as small as $25 . Investors can invest in loans through one or all of the following channels: Notes: We issue notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement (Note Registration Statement). Investors who meet the applicable financial suitability requirements and have completed our investor account opening process may purchase unsecured, borrower payment dependent notes that correspond to payments received on an underlying standard program loan selected by the investor. When an investor registers with us, the investor enters into an investor agreement with us that governs the investors purchases of notes. Our note channel is supported by our website and our Investor Services group, which provides basic customer support to these investors. Securitizations: To expand the Companys institutional investor base, in 2017 we developed the capability to support the self-sponsored securitization of loans in asset-backed securities transactions. We sponsored four securitization transactions in 2017, and we used our own capital to purchase certain of the loans that were contributed to these deals. We are broadening our platform to tap into a large and liquid asset-backed securities market, reach new institutional investors, and provide a capital markets financing alternative. Whole Loan Purchases: Certain institutional investors, such as banks, seek to hold the actual loan on their balance sheet. To meet this need, we sell entire standard or custom program loans to these investors through purchase agreements. Upon the sale of the loan, the investor owns all rights, title and interest in the loan. We establish the investors accounts and the procedures for the purchase of loans, including any purchase amount limitations, which we control. We and the investor also make limited representations and warranties and agree to indemnify each other for breaches of the purchase agreement. For the vast majority of our whole loans sold, the investor also agrees to simultaneously enter into a servicing agreement with us to service the sold loan. We can be removed as the servicer in limited circumstances. For certain whole loans, under our contractual relationships we are not the servicer. For regulatory purposes, the investor also has access to the underlying borrower information, but is prohibited from contacting or marketing to the borrower in any manner and agrees to hold such borrower information in compliance with all applicable privacy laws. Whole loan purchases are attractive for some investors as it enables them to account for the loan as an asset, which can offer favorable financial reporting and capital reserve treatment and also allows them more flexibility on using their assets as collateral. In the third quarter of 2017, we began a recurring process to aggregate pools of whole loans on balance sheet, for subsequent sale to third-party investors. The typical period for holding such pools on balance sheet is less than three months. In 2017, the Company also began to sell loan participations to certain institutional investors in limited circumstances. CLUB Certificates: In December 2017, we introduced a whole loan transaction structured as a tradeable, pass-through security called a CLUB Certificate. The instrument trades in the over-the-counter market with a CUSIP and is cleared through the Depository Trust and Clearing Company. The CLUB Certificate is tailored for an institutional investor seeking a liquid vehicle with which to access the consumer credit asset class. Certificates and Investment Funds: Previously, accredited investors and qualified purchasers were able to establish a relationship with LCAM or another third-party advisor in order to indirectly invest in certificates, or they were able to directly purchase a certificate. The certificates, which were issued by the Trust, are unsecured and settled with cash flows from underlying loans selected by the investor. Effective December 2016, the Trust ceased offering new certificates, but legacy investors may continue to receive cash flows from and make new investments via previously-issued certificates. Investors in certificates generally pay an asset-based management fee instead of cash flow-based servicing fee paid by note investors. In addition, accredited investors and qualified purchasers may purchase a limited partnership interest in one of four private LCAM investment funds that purchase whole loans. Neither certificates nor limited partnership interests could be nor can be purchased through our website. 7 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Technology The LendingClub platform is based on technology that is scalable and flexible. Our culture of innovation has led to the filing of over ten patent applications in 2017. Key elements of our technology include: Highly Automated. Our borrower and investor acquisition process, registration, credit decisioning and scoring, servicing and payment systems are highly automated using our internally developed software. Our proprietary cash management software processes electronic cash movements, records platform entries and calculates cash balances in our borrower and investor fund accounts. In nearly all payment transactions, an Automated Clearing House (ACH) electronic payment network is used to disburse loan proceeds, collect borrower loan payments on outstanding loans, receive funds from investors and disburse payments to investors. Scalable Platform. Our scalable infrastructure utilizes standard techniques, such as virtualization, load-balancing and high-availability platforms. Our application and database tiers are designed to be scaled horizontally by adding additional servers as needed. In addition, a portion of our infrastructure runs on a cloud-based platform, giving instantaneous scalability and rapid business agility. Proprietary Fraud Detection. We use a combination of third-party data, sophisticated analytical tools and current and historical data obtained during the loan application process to help assess fraud risk. We have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. High-risk loan applications are subject to further investigation. In cases of confirmed fraud, the application is cancelled, and we identify and flag characteristics of the loan application to help refine our fraud detection efforts. Data Integrity and Security. We maintain an effective information security program based on well-established security standards and best practices, including ISO2700x and NIST 800 series. The program establishes policies and procedures to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of borrower and investor information. The program also addresses risk assessment, training, access control, encryption, service provider oversight, an incident response program and continuous monitoring and review. Application Programming Interface. Our application programming interface, referred to as our API, provides investors and partners access to publicly available loan attributes and allows them to analyze the data and place orders meeting their criteria without visiting our website. Investors and partners may create their own software that uses our API or they may use a variety of third-party services that invest via our API. LendingClub Open Integration (LCOI). LCOI allows online advisors and broker-dealers to offer LendingClub investments quickly and easily to their client bases, using a suite of API services that integrate directly into their websites. This allows these advisors and broker-dealers to provide the same functionality that currently exists on our website, including money movement, investing, reinvesting, real-time reporting of cash and holdings, and tax reporting. Relationships with Issuing Bank Partners Loans facilitated through our lending marketplace are originated by our issuing bank partners. Our primary issuing bank is WebBank, a Utah-chartered industrial bank that handles a variety of consumer and commercial financing programs. Our contractual arrangements with WebBank provide WebBank with a right to originate a certain percentage of loans facilitated through our platform. Additionally, we rely on NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank as issuing banks for our education and patient finance loans. 8 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION We have entered into a loan account program agreement with WebBank that governs the terms and conditions between us and WebBank with respect to loans facilitated through our lending marketplace and originated by WebBank, including our obligations for servicing the loans during the period of time that the loans are owned by WebBank. Under the terms of the loan account program agreement, we pay WebBank a monthly program fee based on the amount of loans issued by WebBank and purchased by us or our partners in a given month, subject to a minimum monthly fee. WebBank pays us a transaction fee for our role in processing loan applications through our lending marketplace on WebBanks behalf. Under a loan sale agreement, WebBank may sell us the loan without recourse two business days after WebBank originates the loan. The loan account program agreement and the loan sale agreement initially terminate in January 2020, with two additional automatic, one-year renewal terms, subject to certain early termination provisions as set forth in the agreements. Our issuing banks for education and patient finance loans originate and service each education and patient finance loan issued. Our issuing banks retain some of these loans while others are offered to private investors. For our role in loan facilitation, we recognize transaction fees paid by the issuing banks and education and patient service providers once the loan is issued by the issuing bank and the proceeds are delivered to the borrower. Credit Decisioning and Scoring Process Our lending marketplace provides an integrated and automated loan application and credit decisioning and scoring process that is extensible to a variety of loan products. Borrowers come to our platform to apply online for a loan. During the simple application process, our platform uses proprietary risk algorithms that leverage behavioral data, transactional data and employment information to supplement traditional risk assessment tools, such as FICO scores, to assess a borrowers risk profile. Our verification processes and analysts then verify the borrowers identity, income or employment by connecting with various data providers to determine whether to approve the loan request. Borrowers are then assigned one of 35 loan grades, from A1 through G5 based on this risk profile, loan term and loan amount. Our lending marketplaces credit decisioning and scoring models are evaluated on a regular basis and the additional data on loan history experience, borrower behavior, economic factors and prepayment trends that we accumulate are leveraged to continually improve the models. In September 2017, we facilitated the launch of our next-generation credit model and made adjustments to credit and pricing policies to adapt to current market conditions. This information will assist us in assessing if and when to propose further changes to the credit model or pricing for consideration by the issuing banks who originate loans facilitated through our platform. Our lending marketplaces credit decisioning and scoring models assign each loan offered on our lending marketplace a corresponding interest rate and origination fee. Our investors returns are a function of the assigned interest rates and prepayments for each particular loan invested in less any defaults over the term of the applicable loan. We believe we have the experience and capabilities to effectively evaluate a borrowers credit worthiness and likelihood of default, offering attractive risk-adjusted return opportunities for loan investors. 9 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Loan Issuance Mechanism Once a loan application is approved, we present the borrower with various loan options, including term, rate and amount, for which they qualify. After the applicant selects their personalized financing option and completes the application process, we perform additional verifications on the borrower. Once the verifications are completed, the loan will be listed for at least 14 days and up to 30 days on our platform to attract investor commitments. Once sufficient investor commitments are received, the issuing bank originates and issues the loan to the borrower, net of the origination fee charged and retained by the issuing bank. After the loan is issued, we use the proceeds from these investors to purchase the loan from the issuing bank. Investor cash balances (excluding payments in process) are held in segregated bank or custodial accounts and are not commingled with our monies. If insufficient investor commitments are received, the Company may purchase loans with its own capital. Loan Servicing We service all loans facilitated through our lending marketplace, except for patient and education finance loans and auto refinance loans. Loan servicing includes account maintenance, collections, processing payments from borrowers and distributions to investors. We have made arrangements for backup servicing with First Associates Loan Servicing, LLC, and Millennium Trust Company, LLC. For the month of December 2017 , approximately 98% of loan payments for loans that we service were made through an ACH withdrawal from the borrowers bank account. Principal and interest payments on loans are remitted to investors utilizing ACH. This automated process allows us to avoid the time and expense of processing a significant volume of mailed payments and provides a higher degree of certainty for timely payments. This process also provides us with prompt notice in the event of a missed payment, which allows us to respond quickly to resolve the delinquency with the borrower. Generally, in the first 30 days that a loan is delinquent, our Payment Solutions team works to bring the account current. Once the loan becomes more than 30 days delinquent, we will typically outsource subsequent servicing efforts to third-party collection agencies. The servicing fee paid by investors is designed to cover the day-to-day processing costs of loans. If a loan needs more intensive collection focus, whether internal or external, we may charge investors a collection fee to compensate us for the costs of this collection activity. This fee varies, with a maximum of up to 35% of the amount 10 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION recovered. There is no collection fee charged if there are no loan payments recovered. We sell most loans that have been charged-off to certain third parties. All proceeds received on these sales are subject to a collection fee, and the net proceeds are distributed to investors. Competition We compete with financial products and companies that attract borrowers, investors or both. With respect to borrowers, we primarily compete with traditional financial institutions, such as banks, credit unions, credit card issuers and other consumer finance companies. We believe our proprietary lending marketplace model, online delivery and process automation enable us to operate more efficiently and with more competitive rates and higher borrower satisfaction than these competitors. With respect to investors, we primarily compete with other investment vehicles and asset classes, such as equities, bonds and short-term fixed income securities. We believe that our diverse and customizable investment options give us the flexibility to offer attractive risk-adjusted returns that are generally uncorrelated with other asset classes. We compete with other online lending marketplaces and other lenders. We anticipate that more established internet, technology and financial services companies that possess large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels may enter the market in the future. We believe that our brand, scale, network effect, and historical data provide us with significant competitive strengths over current and future competitors. Sales and Marketing Our marketing efforts are designed to attract and retain borrowers and investors and build brand awareness and reputation. We dedicate significant resources to our marketing and brand advertising efforts and strategic relationships. We use a diverse array of marketing channels and are constantly seeking to improve and optimize our experience both on- and offline to achieve efficiency and a high level of borrower and investor satisfaction. Currently, we believe reputation, word of mouth and our direct to consumer marketing activities through online and offline channels, including paid search, email, online aggregators and mail drives, continue the growth in our investor and borrower base. We also continue to invest in our strategic relationships to raise awareness of our platform and attract borrowers and investors to our lending marketplace. For example, we have a strategic partnership relationship with a consortium of community banks for our lending marketplace to offer co-branded personal loans to the participating banks customers. As part of this relationship, each community bank is provided initial access to invest in loans sought by their own customers, which may include standard program loans. The loans that do not meet the community banks investment criteria are then made available for investment through the lending marketplace. All other loans will continue to be available on our lending marketplace and accessible on an equal basis and are originated by our issuing banks. Regulatory and Compliance Framework The regulatory environment for lending and online marketplaces such as ours is complex, evolving and uncertain, creating both challenges and opportunities that could affect our financial performance. We are subject to extensive and complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination by various federal, state and local government authorities designed to, among other things, protect borrowers (such as truth in lending, equal credit opportunity, fair credit reporting and fair debt collection practices) and investors. Our primary issuing bank, WebBank, is subject to oversight by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the State of Utah. The other two issuing banks are NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank. NBT Bank is subject to oversight by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the New York Department of Financial 11 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Services, and Comenity Capital Bank is subject to oversight by the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. These authorities impose obligations and restrictions on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace. For example, these rules limit the fees that may be assessed on the loans, require certain amounts of capital against outstanding loans, require extensive disclosure to, and consents from, the borrowers and lenders, prohibit discrimination and unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices and may impose multiple qualification and licensing obligations on our activities. Our compliance framework is a cornerstone of the lending marketplace that allows investors to participate in consumer and commercial credit as an asset class. Our relationship with issuing banks is a key component of our compliance framework, as described below. As part of our ongoing compliance program, we have customer identification processes in place to enable us to detect and prevent fraud, money laundering, and terrorist financing, and identify customers who may be on government watchlists, such as those from the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. We compare users identities against these lists at least twice a month for continued compliance and oversight. If a user were to appear on a list, we would take appropriate action to resolve the issue in accordance with company policies and anti-money laundering obligations. In addition to our continued identification and transaction monitoring compliance programs, we use our proprietary technology to assist us in complying with applicable federal anti-money laundering laws on both sides of our business model, for borrowers and investors. Regulations and Licensing The lending and securities industries are highly regulated. We are regulated differently than a bank because, unlike a bank, we do not take deposits or issue our own loans under a bank charter. Our current issuing banks originate all of the loans offered through our lending marketplace and are subject to regulation by the FDIC and/or other relevant federal and state regulators. The Company and the loans made through our lending marketplace are highly regulated. State and federal laws limit the fees that may be assessed on the loans, require extensive disclosure to, and consents from, the borrowers and lenders, prohibit discrimination and unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices and may impose multiple qualification and licensing obligations on our activities. Failure to comply with any of these requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registration, loss of approved status, voiding of the loan contracts, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions and civil and criminal liability. Further, federal, state and local governmental authorities impose additional obligations and restrictions on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace. These authorities impose obligations and restrictions on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace as part of their oversight of the third party providers of the issuing banks. While compliance with such requirements is at times complicated by our unique business model, we believe we are in substantial compliance with these rules and regulations. Current Regulatory Environment We believe that our issuing bank partnership model is appropriate for all the jurisdictions in which we operate and we strive to work with federal, state and local regulatory agencies to help them understand our model and its benefits for consumers. However, we operate in a complex and evolving regulatory environment at the federal and state level. In May 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its decision in Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC that interpreted the scope of federal preemption under the National Bank Act (NBA) and held that a nonbank assignee of a loan originated by a national bank was not entitled to the benefits of federal preemption of claims of usury. The Second Circuits decision is binding on federal courts located in Connecticut, New York, and Vermont, but the decision could also be adopted by other courts. The defendant petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to review the decision and in March 2016, the Court invited the Solicitor General to file a brief expressing the views of the U.S. on the petition. The Solicitor General filed an amicus brief that stated the Second Circuit decision was 12 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION incorrect, but that the case was not yet ready to be heard by the Supreme Court. In June 2016, the Supreme Court declined to hear the case. The Federal District Court is now hearing the case in regards to Midlands alternative claim under a choice of law analysis, and application of state law. While we believe that our program is factually distinguishable from the case, in 2016 we revised our agreement with our primary issuing bank to further distinguish the operation of the program from the courts analysis of the facts in Madden. Under the revised program structure, an additional component of the program fee arrangement was created. This additional program fee component is dependent on the amount and timing of principal and interest payments made by borrowers of the underlying loans. Under this revised program structure the majority of the banks revenue related to the loans facilitated on our platform is therefore tied to the terms and performance of the loans. The bank also maintains an ongoing contractual relationship with borrowers, who may seek additional credit through the LendingClub program in the future. In addition, federal legislation was introduced in late 2017 that could clarify that any loan originated by a national bank would be entitled to the benefits of federal preemption on claims of usury provided that certain criteria are met. We do not know whether this legislation will pass or, if it does pass, what its final terms will provide or its potential impact on our business. In August 2016, a federal district court in the Central District of California considered a case brought by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (CFPB) against CashCall, Inc. In that case, CashCall had an arrangement with a lender owned by a member of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe in which loans were offered to borrowers at APRs that could exceed 300 percent. The district court ruled that, under the facts presented in the case, CashCall should be deemed the true lender and could not charge interest rates in excess of state usury laws. In January 2017, the court issued an order staying the decision for interlocutory appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, over the CFPBs objections. The defendants then filed a petition for appeal with the Ninth Circuit, which was ultimately denied. We believe that our program is factually distinguishable from the CashCall case. Separately, in September 2016 in Beechum v. Navient Solutions, Inc., also in the federal district court in the Central District of California, the court considered a program in which a national bank had a bank partnership with a nonbank, the Student Loan Marketing Association (SLMA), in which borrowers could receive loans originated by the bank through the SLMA. The court in Beechum rejected the argument that the SLMA was the true lender, holding that the face of the borrower transactions showed that the bank had originated the loans and any further analysis to look behind the face of the transaction was inappropriate. In December 2016, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC) released a white paper and sought public comment on whether to charter a new type of special purpose national bank to facilitate the provision of core banking activities through financial technology. We, along with other interested parties, submitted responses to the OCCs proposed special purpose charter (Fintech Charter) in January 2017. In March 2017, the OCC issued a Licensing Manual Draft Supplement for Evaluating Charter Applications From Financial Technology Companies (Draft Manual Supplement) explaining how the OCC intends to apply the licensing standards and requirements in existing regulations and policies to fintech companies applying for special purpose national bank charters. In response to the Draft Manual Supplement, the Conference of State Bank Examiners and the New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) each filed suit challenging the authority of the OCC to issue charters to financial technology companies. In December 2017, the suit filed by the NYDFS was dismissed without prejudice on the ground that the claims were not ripe because no charters had yet been issued under the Draft Manual Supplement and that the OCC has yet to definitively conclude whether to move forward. Representatives of the OCC have made statements that they believe they have the legal right to issue charters to financial technology companies but that the new OCC administration is reviewing the Draft Manual Supplement and associated rules to determine whether, and on what basis, to move forward with such charters. At the state level, certain states are considering the scope of their regulation and oversight of the financial technology industry. For example, we have participated with other financial technology companies in providing information and perspective to the California Department of Business Oversight; the New York State Legislature 13 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION passed a law requiring the New York Department of Financial Services to issue a report on online lending by July of 2018, focusing on, among other things, existing state and federal laws and regulations that apply to online lending and their impact on consumers, start-ups, and emerging businesses; the Colorado Department of Law has brought suit against two lending marketplace platforms with business models similar to ours, alleging that they are the true lenders of the loans originated through their platforms, and we are exploring a potential settlement with the State of Colorado permitting us to continue operating under our model pending the resolution of these lawsuits. The application of state laws to our business, now or as they may be written or interpreted in the future, could have a significant impact on our ability to do business in any given state. The CFPB, which commenced operations in July 2011, has broad authority over the businesses in which we engage. This includes authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and to enforce those laws against and examine large financial institutions, such as our issuing banks, for compliance. The CFPB is authorized to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices through its regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority. While we are subject to the regulatory and enforcement authority of the CFPB, as a facilitator, servicer or acquirer of consumer credit, the CFPB has recently announced that it intends to expand its supervisory authority, through the use of larger participant rules, to cover larger marketplace lenders, non-bank installment lenders and auto lenders. The CFPB has announced larger participant rules for auto lenders, and as our auto refinance business grows, we may meet the definition of a larger participant in the auto loan arena and become subject to supervision, examination and greater oversight by the CFPB. The CFPB has not yet announced specifics regarding its proposed rulemaking for installment loan lenders and, consequently, there continues to be uncertainty as to how the CFPBs strategies and priorities, including any final rules, will impact our unsecured installment loan business and our results of operations going forward. State Licensing Requirements In most states we believe that the applicable issuing bank, as originator of loans facilitated through our lending marketplace, satisfies any relevant licensing requirements with respect to the origination of loans applicable to our operations. As needed, we seek the appropriate authorizations to conduct activities in the respective state. State licensing statutes impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on us, including: record-keeping requirements; restrictions on servicing practices, including limits on finance charges and fees; disclosure requirements; examination requirements; surety bond and minimum net worth requirements; financial reporting requirements; notification requirements for changes in principal officers, stock ownership or corporate control; restrictions on advertising; and review requirements for loan forms. These statutes also subject us to the supervisory and examination authority of state regulators in certain cases. Consumer Protection Laws State Usury Limitations. The following authorities permit FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as WebBank, to export the interest rate permitted by the laws of the state or U.S. territory where the bank is located, regardless of the usury limitations imposed by the state law of the borrowers residence unless the state has chosen to opt out of the exportation regime: Section 521 of the Depository Institution Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980 (DIDA); Section 85 of the National Bank Act (NBA); federal case law interpreting the NBA such as Tiffany v. National Bank of Missouri , 85 U.S. 409 (1874), and Marquette National Bank of Minneapolis v. First Omaha Service Corporation , 439 U.S. 299 (1978); and FDIC advisory opinion 92-47. 14 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION WebBank is located in Utah, and Title 70C of the Utah Consumer Credit Code does not limit the amount of fees or interest that may be charged by WebBank on loans of the type offered through our lending marketplace. Only Iowa and Puerto Rico have opted out of the exportation regime under Section 525 of DIDA. We believe, however, if a state or U.S. territory in which we operate opted out of rate exportation, judicial interpretations support the view that such opt outs would apply only to loans made in those states. We believe that the opt-out of any state would not affect the ability of our lending marketplace to benefit from the exportation of rates. If a loan made through our lending marketplace were deemed to be subject to the usury laws of a state or U.S. territory that had opted-out of the exportation regime, we could become subject to fines, penalties and possible forfeiture of amounts charged to borrowers, and we could decide not to facilitate loans in that jurisdiction, which could adversely impact our growth. State Disclosure Requirements and Other Substantive Lending Regulations . We are subject to state laws and regulations that impose requirements related to loan disclosures and terms, credit discrimination, credit reporting, debt collection and unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices. Our ongoing compliance program seeks to comply with these requirements. Truth in Lending Act. The Truth in Lending Act (TILA), and Regulation Z, which implements it, require lenders to provide consumers with uniform, understandable information concerning certain terms and conditions of their loan and credit transactions. These rules apply to our issuing banks as the creditors for loans facilitated through our lending marketplace, but because the transactions are carried out on our hosted website, we facilitate compliance. For closed-end credit transactions of the type provided through our lending marketplace, these disclosures include, among others, providing the annual percentage rate, the finance charge, the amount financed, the number of payments and the amount of the monthly payment. The creditor must provide these disclosures before a loan is consummated. TILA also regulates the advertising of credit and gives borrowers, among other things, certain rights regarding updated disclosures and the treatment of credit balances. Our lending marketplace provides borrowers with a TILA disclosure at the time a borrower posts a loan request on the platform. If the borrowers request is not fully funded and the borrower chooses to accept a lesser amount offered, we provide an updated TILA disclosure. We also seek to comply with TILAs disclosure requirements related to credit advertising. Equal Credit Opportunity Act. The federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, marital status, the fact that all or part of the applicants income derives from any public assistance program or the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the federal Consumer Credit Protection Act or any applicable state law. Regulation B, which implements ECOA, restricts creditors from requesting certain types of information from loan applicants and from using advertising or making statements that would discourage on a prohibited basis a reasonable person from making or pursuing an application. These requirements apply both to a lender such as WebBank as the creditor for loans facilitated through our lending marketplace as well as to a party such as ourselves that regularly participates in a credit decision. Investors may also be subject to the ECOA in their capacity as purchasers of notes if they are deemed to regularly participate in credit decisions. In the underwriting of loans offered through our lending marketplace, and in all aspects of operations, both WebBank and we seek to comply with ECOAs provisions prohibiting discouragement and discrimination. ECOA also requires creditors to provide consumers and certain small businesses with timely notices of adverse action taken on credit applications. WebBank and we provide prospective borrowers who apply for a loan through our lending marketplace but are denied credit with an adverse action notice in compliance with applicable requirements. Fair Credit Reporting Act . The federal Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA), administered by the CFPB, promotes the accuracy, fairness and privacy of information in the files of consumer reporting agencies. FCRA requires a permissible purpose to obtain a consumer credit report and requires furnishers to report loan payment information to credit bureaus accurately. FCRA also imposes disclosure requirements on creditors who take adverse action on credit applications based on information contained in a credit report. WebBank and we have a permissible purpose for obtaining credit reports on potential borrowers, and we also obtain explicit consent from borrowers to obtain such reports. As the servicer for the loan, we report loan payment and delinquency information to appropriate consumer reporting agencies. We provide an adverse action notice to a rejected borrower on WebBanks behalf at the time the borrower is rejected that includes 15 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION all the required disclosures. We also have processes in place to ensure that consumers are given opt-out opportunities, as required by the FCRA, regarding the sharing of their personal information. We have implemented an identity theft prevention program. Fair Debt Collection Practices Act . The federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) provides guidelines and limitations on the conduct of third-party debt collectors in connection with the collection of consumer debts. The FDCPA limits certain communications with third parties, imposes notice and debt validation requirements, and prohibits threatening, harassing or abusive conduct in the course of debt collection. While the FDCPA applies to third-party debt collectors, debt collection laws of certain states impose similar requirements on creditors who collect their own debts. In addition, the CFPB prohibits unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in debt collection, including first-party debt collection. Our agreement with investors prohibits investors from attempting to collect directly on the loan. Actual collection efforts in violation of this agreement are unlikely given that investors do not learn the identity of borrowers. We use our internal collection team and a professional third-party debt collection agent to collect delinquent accounts. They are required to comply with the FDCPA and all other applicable laws in collecting delinquent accounts of our borrowers. Privacy and Data Security Laws . The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) includes limitations on financial institutions disclosure of nonpublic personal information about a consumer to nonaffiliated third parties, in certain circumstances requires financial institutions to limit the use and further disclosure of nonpublic personal information by nonaffiliated third parties to whom they disclose such information, and requires financial institutions to disclose certain privacy policies and practices with respect to information sharing with affiliated and nonaffiliated entities as well as to safeguard personal customer information. We have a detailed privacy policy, which complies with GLBA and is accessible from every page of our website. We maintain consumers personal information securely, and only share such information with third parties for marketing purposes in accordance with our privacy policy and with the consent of the consumer. In addition, we take measures to safeguard the personal information of our borrowers and investors and protect against unauthorized access to this information. Servicemembers Civil Relief Act . The federal Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA) allows military members to suspend or postpone certain civil obligations so that the military member can devote his or her full attention to military duties. The SCRA requires us to adjust the interest rate of borrowers who qualify for and request relief. If a borrower with an outstanding loan qualifies for SCRA protection, we will reduce the interest rate on the loan to 6% for the duration of the borrowers active duty. During this period, the investors who have invested in such a loan will not receive the difference between 6% and the loans original interest rate. For a borrower to obtain an interest rate reduction on a loan due to military service, we require the borrower to send us a written request and a copy of the borrowers mobilization orders. We do not take military service into account in assigning loan grades to borrower loan requests and we do not disclose the military status of borrowers to investors. Military Lending Act . The Military Lending Act (MLA) restricts, among other things, the interest rate and other terms that can be offered to active military personnel and their dependents. The MLA caps the interest rate that may be offered to a covered borrower to a 36% military annual percentage rate, or MAPR, which includes certain fees such as application fees, participation fees and fees for add-on products. Prior to a recent amendment of the rules under the MLA, the MLA applied only to certain short-term loans. The rules amendment extends the 36% rate cap to most types of consumer credit. The MLA also requires certain disclosures and prohibits certain terms, such as mandatory arbitration if a dispute arises concerning the consumer credit product. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act . In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is extensive and significant legislation that includes consumer protection provisions. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which commenced operations in July 2011 and has authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and to enforce those laws against and examine large financial institutions, such as our issuing banks, for compliance. The CFPB is authorized to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices through its regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority. We are subject to the CFPBs jurisdiction, 16 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION including its enforcement authority, as a servicer and acquirer of consumer credit. The CFPB may request reports concerning our organization, business conduct, markets and activities. Other Regulations Electronic Fund Transfer Act and NACHA Rules. The federal Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) and Regulation E that implements it provide guidelines and restrictions on the electronic transfer of funds from consumers bank accounts. In addition transfers performed by ACH electronic transfers are subject to detailed timing and notification rules and guidelines administered by the National Automated Clearinghouse Association (NACHA). Most transfers of funds in connection with the origination and repayment of loans are performed by ACH. We obtain necessary electronic authorization from borrowers and investors for such transfers in compliance with such rules. We also comply with the requirement that a loan cannot be conditioned on the borrowers agreement to repay the loan through automatic fund transfers. Transfers of funds through our platform are executed by Wells Fargo and conform to the EFTA, its regulations and NACHA guidelines. Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act/Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. The federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (ESIGN), and similar state laws, particularly the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (UETA), authorize the creation of legally binding and enforceable agreements utilizing electronic records and signatures. ESIGN and UETA require businesses that want to use electronic records or signatures in consumer transactions and provide disclosures to consumers, to obtain the consumers consent to receive information electronically. When a borrower or investor registers on our platform, we obtain his or her consent to transact business electronically, receive electronic disclosures and maintain electronic records in compliance with ESIGN and UETA requirements. Bank Secrecy Act. In cooperation with WebBank, we have implemented various anti-money laundering policies and procedures to comply with applicable federal law. With respect to new borrowers and investors, we apply the customer identification and verification program rules and screen names against the list of specially designated nationals maintained by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and OFAC pursuant to the USA PATRIOT Act amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act and its implementing regulations. New Laws and Regulations. From time to time, various types of federal and state legislation are proposed and new regulations are introduced that could result in additional regulation of, and restrictions on, the business of consumer lending. We cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulations will be adopted or how this would affect our business or our important relationships with third parties. In addition, the interpretation of existing legislation may change or may prove different than anticipated when applied to our novel business model. Compliance with such requirements could involve additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a consequence of the extensive regulation of commercial lending in the United States, our business is particularly susceptible to being affected by federal and state legislation and regulations that may increase the cost of doing business. In addition, see Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Regulation. Foreign Laws and Regulations. We do not permit non-U.S. based individuals to register as borrowers on the platform and the Company does not facilitate loans to borrowers outside the United States. Therefore, we do not believe that we are subject to foreign laws or regulations with respect to borrowers. Intellectual Property To establish and protect our technology and intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other rights, as well as confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. We are not dependent on any one patent or related group of patents or any other single right to use intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, third parties may, in an authorized or unauthorized manner, attempt to use, copy or 17 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property rights or technology or otherwise develop a product with the same functionality as our solution. In addition, our competitors may develop products that are similar to our technology. Policing all unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is nearly impossible, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken or will take in the future will prevent misappropriations of our technology or intellectual property rights. Employees At December 31, 2017 , we had 1,837 employees and contract employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our employee relations to be good. Available Information The address of our principal executive offices is LendingClub Corporation, 71 Stevenson Street, Suite 1000, San Francisco, California, 94105. Our website address is www.lendingclub.com , and our investor relations website is located at ir.lendingclub.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition to announcing material financial information through our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts, we also intend to use other online and social media channels, including our Blog ( http://blog.lendingclub.com) , Twitter handle (@LendingClub) and Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/LendingClubTeam) to disclose material non-public information and to comply with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing or in any other report or document on file with the SEC. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 18 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. While we believe the risks and uncertainties described below include all material risks currently known by us, it is possible that these may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND REGULATION If we do not compete effectively in our target markets, increase the loan originations facilitated through our lending marketplace, or expand our lending marketplace to new markets, we may not succeed in growing our business, and as a result our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The consumer and small business lending market is competitive and evolving. We compete with financial products and companies that attract borrowers, investors or both, as described in Part I Item 1 Business Competition. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and less expensive access to capital than we do and may have a greater market share, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower operating or financing costs, or have different profitability expectations than us. As a consequence, certain competitors may be able to offer lower rates to borrowers than we are able to offer, or they may be able to structure their loan products in a manner that would appear to be more attractive to a potential borrower. To continue to grow our business, we must continue to increase loan originations through our lending marketplace by attracting a large number of new borrowers who meet our platforms lending standards and new and existing investors to invest in these loans. Our ability to attract qualified borrowers and attract new and retain existing investors each depends in large part on the success of our marketing efforts and the competitive advantage of our products, particularly as we continue to grow our lending marketplace and introduce new loan products. If any of our marketing channels become less effective, or the cost of these channels were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new borrowers and attract new and retain existing investors in a cost-effective manner or convert potential borrowers and investors into active borrowers and investors in our lending marketplace. If we are unable to continue to develop and successfully implement compelling and competitive product offerings, we may not be able to attract new borrowers and attract new and retain existing investors. If our loan offerings are priced less favorably than those offered by our competitors, potential borrowers may choose to take an offer from a competitor rather than ours. If there are not sufficient qualified loans facilitated on the platform, investors may be unable to deploy their capital in a timely or efficient manner and may seek other investment opportunities. If the performance of loans facilitated through our platform is lower than expected, we may be unable to attract new and retain existing investors. If there are insufficient investor commitments or participation, borrowers may be unable to obtain investment capital for their loans and may stop using our lending marketplace for their borrowing needs, which will impact our business results. If loan originations through our platform decrease, for any reason, our financial results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, in response to the competitive landscape, if we restructure our loan products, including lowering or eliminating our transaction fees, our financial results may be adversely affected even if we are able to maintain or increase loan originations through our platform. We incur expenses and expend resources upfront to develop, acquire and market new loan products and platform enhancements to incorporate additional features, improve functionality or otherwise make our lending marketplace more desirable to borrowers and investors. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with issuing banks, our business will suffer. We rely on issuing banks to originate all loans and to comply with various federal, state and other laws, as discussed more fully above in Part I Item 1 Business Relationships with Issuing Bank Partners. 19 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Our agreements with WebBank are non-exclusive and do not prohibit WebBank from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. WebBank currently offers loan programs through other online lending marketplaces and other alternative lenders. WebBank could decide that working with us is not in its interest or could decide to enter into exclusive or more favorable relationships with our competitors. In addition, WebBank may not perform as expected under our agreements including potentially being unable to accommodate our projected growth in loan volume. We could in the future have disagreements or disputes with WebBank or other issuing banks, which could negatively impact or threaten our relationship. WebBank is subject to oversight by the FDIC and the State of Utah and must comply with complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination requirements, including requirements to maintain a certain amount of regulatory capital relative to its outstanding loans. We are a service provider to WebBank, and as such, we are subject to audit by WebBank in accordance with FDIC guidance related to management of third-party vendors. We are also subject to the examination and enforcement authority of the FDIC as a bank service company covered by the Bank Service Company Act. We have indemnification obligations and exposure under our agreements with WebBank, including with respect to our compliance with certain applicable laws. In the event that our relationships with such backup issuing banks change, we may need to enter into alternative arrangements with different issuing banks. If WebBank were to suspend, limit or cease its operations or our relationship with WebBank were to otherwise terminate, we would need to implement a substantially similar arrangement with another issuing bank, obtain additional state licenses or curtail our operations. To date, no backup issuing banks have originated any loans through our platform and we do not believe that we have a backup origination arrangement that could be in a position to originate loans without significant investment in time and resources, resulting in a disruption to the business. Our relationships with such backup issuing banks are subject to a number of risks and may be subject to change or termination with appropriate notice. We believe that our relationship with WebBank is critical to our business. However, if we need to enter into alternative arrangements with a different issuing bank to replace our existing arrangements, we may not be able to negotiate a comparable alternative arrangement. Transitioning loan originations to a new issuing bank is untested and may result in delays in the issuance of loans or, if our platform becomes inoperable, may result in our inability to facilitate loans through our platform. If we were unable to enter in an alternative arrangement with a different issuing bank, we would need to obtain a state license in each state in which we operate to enable us to originate loans, as well as comply with other state and federal laws, which would be costly and time-consuming. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with WebBank, our ability to provide loan products could be materially impaired and our operating results would suffer. We are regularly subject to litigation, and government and regulatory investigations, inquiries and requests, including matters related to our legacy management and the resignation of our former Chief Executive Officer. We are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, lawsuits alleging regulatory violations such as Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) or Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) violations, government and regulatory investigations, inquiries or requests, and other proceedings involving consumer protection, privacy, labor and employment, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, information security, securities, tax, commercial disputes,record retention and other matters. The number and significance of these lawsuits, investigations, inquiries and requests have increased as our business has expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. We have also been subject to significant litigation and regulatory inquiries following our 2016 Board Review and the resignation of our former CEO, as discussed more fully in Part II