Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements also include statements related to our anticipated financial performance, business prospects and strategy; anticipated trends and prospects in the various industries in which our businesses operate; new products, services and related strategies; and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Factors currently known to management that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include those matters discussed or referenced in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors included elsewhere in this quarterly report and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of the 2015 Annual Report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of LendingTree management as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results or expectations, except as required by law. Company Overview LendingTree, Inc., is the parent of LendingTree, LLC and several companies owned by LendingTree, LLC. LendingTree operates what we believe to be the leading online loan marketplace for consumers seeking loans and other credit-based offerings. Our online marketplace provides consumers with access to product offerings from our Network Lenders, including mortgage loans, home equity, reverse mortgage, auto loans, credit cards, personal loans, student loans and small business loans and other related offerings. In addition, we offer tools and resources, including free credit scores, that facilitate comparison shopping for these loan and other credit-based offerings. We seek to match consumers with multiple lenders, who can provide them with competing quotes for the product they are seeking. We also serve as a valued partner to lenders seeking an efficient, scalable and flexible source of customer acquisition with directly measurable benefits, by matching the consumer inquiries we generate with these lenders. Our My LendingTree platform offers a personalized loan comparison-shopping experience by providing free credit scores and credit score analysis. This platform enables us to observe consumers' credit profiles and then identify and alert them to loan and other credit-based opportunities on our marketplace that may be more favorable than the loans they may have at a given point in time. This is designed to provide consumers with measurable savings opportunities over their lifetimes. In addition to operating our core mortgage business, we are focused on growing our non-mortgage lending businesses and developing new product offerings and enhancements to improve the experiences that consumers and lenders have as they interact with us. By expanding our portfolio of loan and credit-based offerings, we are growing and diversifying our business and sources of revenue. We intend to capitalize on our expertise in performance marketing, product development and technology, and to leverage the widespread recognition of the LendingTree brand to effect this strategy. The LendingTree Loans business is presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income and consolidated cash flows for all periods presented. Except for the discussion under the heading "Discontinued operations," the analysis within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations reflects our continuing operations. Seasonality Revenue in our lending business is subject to cyclical and seasonal trends. Home sales (and purchase mortgages) typically rise during the spring and summer months and decline during the fall and winter months, while refinancing and home equity 20 Table of Contents activity is principally driven by mortgage interest rates as well as real estate values. However, these trends in our business are not absolute and there have been exceptions to them. For example, in recent periods additional factors affecting the mortgage and real estate markets have impacted customary seasonal trends. We anticipate revenue in our newer products to be cyclical as well; however, we have limited historical data to predict the nature and magnitude of this cyclicality. Other factors affecting our business include macro factors such as credit availability in the market, the strength of the economy and employment. Recent Mortgage Interest Rate Trends Interest rate and market risks can be substantial in the mortgage lead generation business. Short-term fluctuations in mortgage interest rates primarily affect consumer demand for mortgage refinancings, while long-term fluctuations in mortgage interest rates, coupled with the U.S. real estate market, affect consumer demand for new mortgages. Consumer demand, in turn, affects lender demand for mortgage leads from third-party sources. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will lead to reduced lender demand, as there are more consumers in the marketplace seeking financing and, accordingly, lenders receive more organic lead volume. Conversely, an increase in mortgage interest rates will typically lead to an increase in lender demand, as there are fewer consumers in the marketplace and, accordingly, the supply of organic mortgage lead volume decreases. According to Freddie Mac, mortgage interest rates have continued to stay low, decreasing to a monthly average of 3.66% in February 2016, its lowest since May 2013. On a quarterly basis, mortgage interest rates in the first quarter of 2016 averaged 3.74%, as compared to 3.90% in the fourth quarter of 2015 and 3.72% in the first quarter of 2015. 21 Table of Contents Typically, as mortgage interest rates drop, there are more consumers in the marketplace seeking refinancings and, accordingly, the mix of mortgage origination dollars moves towards refinance mortgages. However, according to Mortgage Bankers Association ("MBA"), the correlation between the movement in rates and refinance loan balances has become tighter, with fewer refinance opportunities remaining at the current mortgage rates. Therefore, total refinance origination dollars remained consistent at 47% of total mortgage origination dollars in the first quarter of 2016 over the first quarter of 2015. Looking forward, MBA is projecting mortgage interest rates to climb in 2016, to an average 4.0% on 30-year fixed rate mortgages. According to MBA projections, as interest rates climb, the mix of mortgage origination dollars will move towards purchase mortgages with the refinance share representing just 38% for 2016, as compared to 46% for 2015. The U.S. Real Estate Market The health of the U.S. real estate market and interest rate levels are the primary drivers of consumer demand for new mortgages. Consumer demand, in turn, affects lender demand for purchase mortgage leads from third-party sources. Typically, a strong real estate market will lead to reduced lender demand for leads, as there are more consumers in the marketplace seeking financing and, accordingly, lenders receive more organic lead volume. Conversely, a weaker real estate market will typically lead to an increase in lender demand, as there are fewer consumers in the marketplace seeking mortgages. According to the National Association of Realtors ("NAR"), sales of existing homes in 2015 increased approximately 7% over 2014, equating to the housing market's best year in nearly a decade. In the first quarter of 2016, existing home sale increased approximately 2% from the fourth quarter of 2015. In 2016, the NAR expects moderate growth in existing home sales compared to 2015, due to slower economic expansion and rising mortgage rates. Results of Operations for the Three Months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (Dollars in thousands) Mortgage products $ 55,016 $ 36,997 $ 18,019 49 % Non-mortgage products 39,697 13,938 25,759 185 % Revenue 94,713 50,935 43,778 86 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation shown separately below) 3,473 1,975 1,498 76 % Selling and marketing expense 65,059 32,837 32,222 98 % General and administrative expense 9,259 7,228 2,031 28 % Product development 3,885 2,173 1,712 79 % Depreciation 998 654 344 53 % Amortization of intangibles 25 62 (37 ) (60 )% Restructuring and severance 6 (6 ) (100 )% Litigation settlements and contingencies 169 282 (113 ) (40 )% Total costs and expenses 82,868 45,217 37,651 83 % Operating income 11,845 5,718 6,127 107 % Other income (expense), net: Interest (expense) income (142 ) 2 (144 ) (7,200 )% Income before income taxes 11,703 5,720 5,983 105 % Income tax expense (4,798 ) (307 ) 4,491 1,463 % Net income from continuing operations 6,905 5,413 1,492 28 % Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (1,203 ) (226 ) 977 432 % Net income and comprehensive income $ 5,702 $ 5,187 $ 515 10 % 22 Table of Contents Revenue Revenue increased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 due to increases in our non-mortgage products of $25.8 million and in our mortgage products of $18.0 million. Our non-mortgage products include the following non-mortgage lending products: personal loans, home equity, reverse mortgage, credit cards, auto loans, student loans and small business loans. Our non-mortgage products also include home improvement referrals and other credit products such as credit repair and debt settlement. The increase in revenue from our non-mortgage products in the first quarter of 2016 is primarily due to increases in revenue from our personal loans product, our credit cards product and our home equity product. Revenue from our personal loans product increased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 due to growing awareness in the market of the product, an increase in lenders on our exchange, increases in revenue earned per matched consumer and increased marketing efforts. Revenue from our credit cards product increased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 due to increases in payouts from issuers in addition to increased marketing efforts. Revenue from each of our non-mortgage lending products increased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. The growth in our personal loans business in the first quarter of 2016 continued over 10 quarters of quarter-over-quarter growth in such product as lenders and consumers increased utilization of online personal loan origination models. This growth occurred notwithstanding well-publicized challenges experienced by certain of our online personal loan lenders, in particular increased pricing demanded by investors of personal loans, which in some cases led to reductions in marketing spend. We generally expect our product lines to move in tandem with the collective demand of all of our lenders in the product rather than any individual ones, and we expect to see more lenders with different capital models enter the personal loan marketplace and join our network. We believe the market for all of our non-mortgage products, including personal loans, remains under-penetrated and we believe long-term growth prospects are strong for all non-mortgage products. A significant industry-wide contraction in the availability of capital for non-mortgage lending products would likely adversely affect our non-mortgage product revenues. We expect more moderate year-over-year growth in non-mortgage revenue for the remainder of 2016 compared to the year-over-year growth for the comparable quarters of 2015, reflecting anticipated normalized growth in personal loans and increased growth in other products including credit cards and home equity. The increase in revenue from our mortgage products in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 is due to an increase in revenue from both our refinance and purchase products. Revenue from our refinance product increased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 due to increased demand of both new and existing lenders on our marketplace. The number of consumers matched for our mortgage products increase by 45% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015, while our average revenue earned from mortgage lenders per matched consumer increased by 3% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of costs associated with compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) relating to internally-operated call centers, third-party customer call center fees, credit scoring fees, credit card fees, website network hosting and server fees. Cost of revenue increased in the first quarter of 2016 from the first quarter of 2015 , primarily due to increases of $0.5 million in compensation and benefits as a result of increases in headcount, $0.3 million in credit card fees, $0.2 million in lead technology fees, $0.2 million in credit scoring fees and $0.2 million in third-party call center fees. Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue remained flat at 4% for the first quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. Selling and marketing expense Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures, fees paid for consumer inquiries and compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in sales or marketing functions. Advertising and promotional expenditures primarily include online marketing, as well as television, print and radio spending. Advertising production costs are expensed in the period the related ad is first run. The increases in selling and marketing expense in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 were primarily due to increases in advertising and promotional expense of $30.9 million as discussed below. In addition, selling and marketing expense increased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $1.3 million, as a result of increases in headcount. 23 Table of Contents Advertising and promotional expense is the largest component of selling and marketing expense, and is comprised of the following: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (Dollars in thousands) Online $ 50,528 $ 24,374 $ 26,154 107 % Broadcast 8,716 4,734 3,982 84 % Other 1,337 619 718 116 % Total advertising expense $ 60,581 $ 29,727 $ 30,854 104 % We increased our advertising expenditures in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 in order to generate additional consumer inquiries to meet the increased demand of lenders on our marketplace. We will continue to adjust selling and marketing expenditures dynamically in relation to anticipated revenue opportunities. General and administrative expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in finance, legal, tax, corporate information technology, human resources and executive management functions, as well as facilities and infrastructure costs and fees for professional services. General and administrative expense increased in the first quarter of 2016 from the first quarter of 2015 , primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $0.3 million as a result of increases in headcount, increases in professional fees of $0.5 million, increases in computer software maintenance of $0.2 million, increases in facility fees of $0.2 million, and increases in franchise taxes of $0.4 million. General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue decreased to 10% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 14% in the first quarter of 2015. Product development Product development expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) that are not capitalized, for personnel engaged in the design, development, testing and enhancement of technology. Product development expense increased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 , as we continued to invest in internal development of new and enhanced features, functionality and business opportunities that we believe will enable us to better and more fully serve consumers and lenders. Product development expenses are comprised primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs. We increased headcount in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 in order to support planned product launches. Income tax expense For the first quarter of 2016, the effective tax rate varied from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state taxes. For the first quarter of 2015, the effective tax rate varied from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the existence of a valuation allowance that was previously provided to offset our net deferred tax asset, state taxes and the Federal Alternative Minimum Tax. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we released the majority of the valuation allowance. There have been no changes to our valuation allowance assessment for the first quarter of 2016. Discontinued operations Losses from discontinued operations are attributable to losses associated with the LendingTree Loans business, the sale of which was completed on June 6, 2012. Losses from discontinued operations were primarily due to litigation settlements and contingencies and legal fees associated with ongoing legal proceedings. 24 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to GAAP. This measure is the primary metric by which we evaluate the performance of our businesses, on which our marketing expenditures and internal budgets are based and by which management and many employees are compensated. We believe that investors should have access to the same set of tools that we use in analyzing our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. We provide and encourage investors to examine the reconciling adjustments between the GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed below. Definition of Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as operating income or loss (which excludes interest expense and taxes) adjusted to exclude amortization of intangibles and depreciation, and to further exclude (1) non-cash compensation expense, (2) non-cash impairment charges, (3) gain/loss on disposal of assets, (4) restructuring and severance expenses, (5) litigation settlements and contingencies and legal fees for certain patent litigation, (6) adjustments for acquisitions or dispositions, and (7) one-time items. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to our statement of operations of certain expenses, including depreciation, non-cash compensation and acquisition-related accounting. We endeavor to compensate for the limitations of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the comparable GAAP measures with equal or greater prominence and descriptions of the reconciling items, including quantifying such items, to derive the non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. One-Time Items Adjusted EBITDA is adjusted for one-time items, if applicable. Items are considered one-time in nature if they are non-recurring, infrequent or unusual and have not occurred in the past two years or are not expected to recur in the next two years, in accordance with SEC rules. For the periods presented in this report, there are no adjustments for one-time items. Non-Cash Expenses that are Excluded from Adjusted EBITDA Non-cash compensation expense consists principally of expense associated with grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options. These expenses are not paid in cash, and we include the related shares in our calculations of fully diluted shares outstanding. Upon settlement of restricted stock units, exercise of certain stock options or vesting of restricted stock awards, the awards may be settled, on a net basis, with us remitting the required tax withholding amount from our current funds. Amortization of intangibles are non-cash expenses relating primarily to intangible assets acquired through acquisitions. At the time of an acquisition, the intangible assets of the acquired company, such as purchase agreements, technology and customer relationships, are valued and amortized over their estimated lives. 25 Table of Contents The following table is a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income from continuing operations. Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Adjusted EBITDA $ 15,797 $ 8,936 Adjustments to reconcile to net income from continuing operations: Amortization of intangibles (25 ) (62 ) Depreciation (998 ) (654 ) Restructuring and severance (6 ) Loss on disposal of assets (127 ) (28 ) Non-cash compensation (2,633 ) (2,336 ) Acquisition expense 150 Litigation settlements and contingencies (169 ) (282 ) Interest (expense) income (142 ) 2 Income tax expense (4,798 ) (307 ) Net income from continuing operations $ 6,905 $ 5,413 Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources General As of March 31, 2016 , we had $174.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and $4.1 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents, compared to $207.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and $6.5 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2015 . In November 2015, the Company completed an equity offering of 852,500 shares of its common stock. The Company received net proceeds of $91.5 million, after deducting approximately $5.9 million in underwriting discounts and $0.7 million in offering expenses. The Company expects to use the net proceeds of the offering for general corporate purposes, including but not limited to, working capital and potential acquisitions. We expect our cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations to be sufficient to fund our operating needs for the next twelve months and beyond. Our revolving credit facility described below is an additional potential source of liquidity. Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility On October 22, 2015, we established a $125.0 million five-year Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility which matures on October 22, 2020 (the Revolving Credit Facility). The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be used to finance working capital needs, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including to finance permitted acquisitions. As of May 5, 2016, we do not have any borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. For additional information on the Revolving Credit Facility, see Note 9 Revolving Credit Facility, in Part I Item 1, Financial Statements . Cash Flows from Continuing Operations Our cash flows attributable to continuing operations are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,074 $ 5,340 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 303 (1,091 ) Net cash used in financing activities (40,818 ) (1,785 ) 26 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our largest source of cash provided by our operating activities is revenues generated by our mortgage and non-mortgage products. Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include advertising and promotional payments and fees paid for consumer inquiries. In addition, our uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and other employee-related costs, other general corporate expenditures, litigation settlements and contingencies and income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations increased in the first quarter of 2016 from the first quarter of 2015 primarily due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in cost of revenue and selling and marketing. Additionally, negative working capital decreased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 primarily driven by changes in accounts receivable and prepaid and other current assets and income taxes payable. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities attributable to continuing operations in the first three months of 2016 of $0.3 million consisted primarily of a $2.5 million decrease in restricted cash due to the release of funds in escrow for the surety bonds due to a reduction in collateral requirements, partially offset by capital expenditures of $2.2 million primarily related to internally developed software. Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in the first three months of 2015 of $1.1 million consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $1.2 million; offset by a $0.1 million decrease in restricted cash. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in the first three months of 2016 of $40.8 million consisted primarily of the repurchase of our stock of $40.5 million , $2.6 million in withholding taxes paid by us upon surrender of shares to satisfy obligations on equity awards; offset by $2.3 million in excess tax benefits from stock-based award activity. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in the first three months of 2015 of $1.8 million consisted primarily of $1.6 million in employee withholding taxes paid by us upon employees' surrender of shares to satisfy withholding obligations on equity awards and $0.2 million for the repurchase of our common stock. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements other than our operating lease obligations and funding commitments pursuant to our surety bonds. New Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2- Significant Accounting Policies, in Part I, Item 1 Financial Statements .