Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements also include statements related to our anticipated financial performance, business prospects and strategy; anticipated trends and prospects in the various industries in which our businesses operate; new products, services and related strategies; and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Factors currently known to management that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include those matters discussed or referenced in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors included elsewhere in this quarterly report and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of the 2016 Annual Report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of LendingTree management as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results or expectations, except as required by law. Company Overview LendingTree, Inc., is the parent of LendingTree, LLC and several companies owned by LendingTree, LLC. LendingTree operates what we believe to be the leading online loan marketplace for consumers seeking loans and other credit-based offerings. Our online marketplace provides consumers with access to product offerings from our Network Lenders, including mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines of credit, reverse mortgage loans, auto loans, credit cards, personal loans, student loans, small business loans and other related offerings. In addition, we offer tools and resources, including free credit scores, that facilitate comparison shopping for these loan and other credit-based offerings. We seek to match consumers with multiple lenders, who can provide them with competing quotes for the product they are seeking. We also serve as a valued partner to lenders seeking an efficient, scalable and flexible source of customer acquisition with directly measurable benefits, by matching the consumer inquiries we generate with these lenders. Our My LendingTree platform offers a personalized loan comparison-shopping experience by providing free credit scores and credit score analysis. This platform enables us to observe consumers' credit profiles and then identify and alert them to loan and other credit-based opportunities on our marketplace that may be more favorable than the loans they may have at a given point in time. This is designed to provide consumers with measurable savings opportunities over their lifetimes. In addition to operating our core mortgage business, we are focused on growing our non-mortgage lending businesses and developing new product offerings and enhancements to improve the experiences that consumers and lenders have as they interact with us. By expanding our portfolio of loan and credit-based offerings, we are growing and diversifying our business and sources of revenue. We intend to capitalize on our expertise in performance marketing, product development and technology, and to leverage the widespread recognition of the LendingTree brand to effect this strategy. We believe the consumer and small business financial services industry is in the early stages of a fundamental shift to online product offerings, similar to the shift that started in retail and travel many years ago and is now well established. We believe that like retail and travel, as consumers continue to move towards online shopping and transactions for financial services, suppliers will increasingly shift their product offerings and advertising budgets toward the online channel. We believe the strength of our brands and of our lender network place us in a strong position to continue to benefit from this market shift. The LendingTree Loans business is presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income and consolidated cash flows for all periods presented. Except for the discussion under the heading "Discontinued operations," the analysis within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations reflects our continuing operations. 22 Table of Contents Acquisition of CompareCards On November 16, 2016, we acquired Iron Horse Holdings, LLC, which does business under the name CompareCards for $80.7 million in cash at closing and contingent consideration payments of up to $22.5 million in each of 2017 and 2018, subject to achieving specific growth targets. CompareCards is a leading online source for side-by-side credit card comparison shopping. CompareCards provides consumers with one centralized location for pertinent credit card information needed to find the best card for their needs. The acquisition continues our diversification strategy. Acquisition of North Carolina Office Properties In December 2016, we completed the acquisition of two office buildings in Charlotte, North Carolina, for $23.5 million in cash. We intend to utilize one or both buildings in the future as our principal executive offices, and any unused space will continue to be occupied by tenants. Seasonality Revenue in our lending business is subject to cyclical and seasonal trends. Home sales (and purchase mortgages) typically rise during the spring and summer months and decline during the fall and winter months, while refinancing and home equity activity is principally driven by mortgage interest rates as well as real estate values. We anticipate revenue in our newer products to be cyclical as well; however, we have limited historical data to predict the nature and magnitude of this cyclicality. Based on industry data, we anticipate as our personal loan product matures we will experience less consumer demand during the fourth and first quarters of each year. Other factors affecting our business include macro factors such as credit availability in the market, the strength of the economy and employment. Recent Mortgage Interest Rate Trends Interest rate and market risks can be substantial in the mortgage lead generation business. Short-term fluctuations in mortgage interest rates primarily affect consumer demand for mortgage refinancings, while long-term fluctuations in mortgage interest rates, coupled with the U.S. real estate market, affect consumer demand for new mortgages. Consumer demand, in turn, affects lender demand for mortgage leads from third-party sources. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will lead to reduced lender demand, as there are more consumers in the marketplace seeking financing and, accordingly, lenders receive more organic lead volume. Conversely, an increase in mortgage interest rates will typically lead to an increase in lender demand, as there are fewer consumers in the marketplace and, accordingly, the supply of organic mortgage lead volume decreases. According to Freddie Mac, 30-year mortgage interest rates have started to rise, to a monthly average of 4.20% in March 2017. On a quarterly basis, 30-year mortgage interest rates in the first quarter of 2017 averaged 4.17%, as compared to 3.74% in the first quarter of 2016 and 3.81% in the fourth quarter of 2016. 23 Table of Contents Typically, as mortgage interest rates rise, there are fewer consumers in the marketplace seeking refinancings and, accordingly, the mix of mortgage origination dollars moves towards purchase mortgages. According to Mortgage Bankers Association ("MBA") data, total refinance origination dollars decreased to 41% of total mortgage origination dollars, while purchase origination dollars increased to 59% in the first quarter of 2017 over the fourth quarter of 2016. Looking forward, MBA is projecting 30-year mortgage interest rates to increase through the end of the year. According to MBA projections, as interest rates climb, the mix of mortgage origination dollars will move towards purchase mortgages with the refinance share representing just 31% for 2017. The U.S. Real Estate Market The health of the U.S. real estate market and interest rate levels are the primary drivers of consumer demand for new mortgages. Consumer demand, in turn, affects lender demand for purchase mortgage leads from third-party sources. Typically, a strong real estate market will lead to reduced lender demand for leads, as there are more consumers in the marketplace seeking financing and, accordingly, lenders receive more organic lead volume. Conversely, a weaker real estate market will typically lead to an increase in lender demand, as there are fewer consumers in the marketplace seeking mortgages. According to the National Association of Realtors ("NAR"), 2017 started with the fastest pace of existing home sales in almost a decade. Existing home sales slowed in February 2017 due to limited supply, but continues to remain above last year's sales levels. The NAR expects inventory to remain low for 2017, but forecasts an increase of 2.3% in existing home sales from 2016. 24 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (Dollars in thousands) Mortgage products $ 62,938 $ 55,016 $ 7,922 14 % Non-mortgage products 69,577 39,697 29,880 75 % Revenue 132,515 94,713 37,802 40 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 3,591 3,473 118 3 % Selling and marketing expense 93,251 65,059 28,192 43 % General and administrative expense 11,547 9,259 2,288 25 % Product development 3,623 3,885 (262 ) (7 )% Depreciation 1,703 998 705 71 % Amortization of intangibles 2,609 25 2,584 10,336 % Change in fair value of contingent consideration 8,746 8,746 N/A Severance 157 157 N/A Litigation settlements and contingencies 404 169 235 139 % Total costs and expenses 125,631 82,868 42,763 52 % Operating income 6,884 11,845 (4,961 ) (42 )% Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (165 ) (142 ) 23 16 % Income before income taxes 6,719 11,703 (4,984 ) (43 )% Income tax benefit (expense) 1,079 (4,798 ) 5,877 122 % Net income from continuing operations 7,798 6,905 893 13 % Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (932 ) (1,203 ) (271 ) (23 )% Net income and comprehensive income $ 6,866 $ 5,702 $ 1,164 20 % Revenue Revenue increased in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 due to increases in our non-mortgage products of $29.9 million and in our mortgage products of $7.9 million. Our non-mortgage products include the following non-mortgage lending products: personal loans, credit cards, home equity loans and lines of credit, reverse mortgage loans, auto loans, small business loans and student loans. Our non-mortgage products also include home improvement referrals and other credit products such as credit repair and debt settlement. Many of our non-mortgage products are not individually significant to revenue. The increase in revenue from our non-mortgage products in the first quarter of 2017 from the first quarter of 2016 is primarily due to a business acquisition in credit cards. Revenue from our credit cards product increased $24.6 million to $33.8 million in the first quarter of 2017 from $9.2 million in the first quarter of 2016, or 269%, primarily due to the contribution from the CompareCards acquisition, completed on November 16, 2016. Revenue from our personal loans product decreased $0.6 million to $17.0 million in the first quarter of 2017 from $17.6 million in the first quarter of 2016, or 3%, primarily due to decreases in revenue earned per consumer, partially offset by increases in the number of consumers completing request forms. Certain of our online personal loan lenders experienced well-publicized challenges in 2016, in particular, general unavailability of capital, increased pricing demanded by investors of personal loans, which in some cases led to reductions in marketing spend and tightening in underwriting standards. We expect revenue from our personal loan product to increase in each remaining quarter of 2017 compared to the corresponding 2016 quarter. 25 Table of Contents For the periods presented, no other non-mortgage product represented more than 10% of revenue, however certain other non-mortgage products experienced notable increases. Revenue from our home equity product increased by $4.7 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 due to increases in lender coverage, revenue earned per consumer, and the number of consumers completing request forms, combined with increased marketing efforts. The increase in revenue from our mortgage products in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 is primarily due to an increase in revenue from our purchase product, although revenue from our refinance product also increased. The revenue from our purchase product increased $6.2 million in the first quarter of 2017 from the first quarter of 2016, primarily due to an increase in lender demand and an increase in marketing efforts. The revenue earned per consumer from our mortgage products increased in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016, while the number of consumers completing a request form for mortgage products remained relatively consistent. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of costs associated with compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) relating to internally-operated customer call centers, third-party customer call center fees, credit scoring fees, credit card fees, website network hosting and server fees. Cost of revenue increased in the first quarter of 2017 from the first quarter of 2016 , primarily due to increases of $0.4 million in compensation and benefits as a result of increases in headcount, partially offset by decreases of $0.1 million in credit card processing fees and $0.1 million in customer service fees. Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased from 4% for the first quarter of 2016 to 3% for the first quarter of 2017. Selling and marketing expense Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures, fees paid for consumer inquiries and compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in sales or marketing functions. Advertising and promotional expenditures primarily include online marketing, as well as television, print and radio spending. Advertising production costs are expensed in the period the related ad is first run. The increases in selling and marketing expense in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 were primarily due to increases in advertising and promotional expense of $28.4 million as discussed below. Advertising and promotional expense is the largest component of selling and marketing expense, and is comprised of the following: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (Dollars in thousands) Online $ 80,660 $ 50,528 $ 30,132 60 % Broadcast 7,232 8,716 (1,484 ) (17 )% Other 1,110 1,337 (227 ) (17 )% Total advertising expense $ 89,002 $ 60,581 $ 28,421 47 % We increased our advertising expenditures in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 in order to generate additional consumer inquiries to meet the increased demand of lenders on our marketplace. We will continue to adjust selling and marketing expenditures dynamically in relation to anticipated revenue opportunities. General and administrative expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in finance, legal, tax, corporate information technology, human resources and executive management functions, as well as facilities and infrastructure costs and fees for professional services. 26 Table of Contents General and administrative expense increased in the first quarter of 2017 from the first quarter of 2016 , primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits of $1.4 million as a result of increases in headcount and increases in professional fees of $0.5 million. General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue decreased to 9% in the first quarter of 2017 from 10% in the first quarter of 2016. Contingent consideration During the first quarter of 2017, we recorded $8.7 million of contingent consideration expense due to an adjustment in the estimated fair value of the earnout payments related to the CompareCards acquisition. Product development Product development expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) and third-party labor costs that are not capitalized, for employees and consultants engaged in the design, development, testing and enhancement of technology. Product development expense remained relatively consistent in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 , as we continued to invest in internal development of new and enhanced features, functionality and business opportunities that we believe will enable us to better and more fully serve consumers and lenders. Product development expenses are comprised primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs. Income tax expense For the first quarter of 2017, the effective tax rate varied from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to a tax benefit of $3.8 million recognized for excess tax benefits due to employee exercises of stock options and vesting of restricted stock in accordance with ASU 2016-09. See Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements for additional information. For the first quarter of 2016, the effective tax rate varied from the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state taxes. There have been no changes to our valuation allowance assessment for the first quarter of 2017. Discontinued operations Losses from discontinued operations are attributable to losses associated with the LendingTree Loans business, the sale of which was completed on June 6, 2012. Losses from discontinued operations were primarily due to litigation settlements and contingencies and legal fees associated with ongoing legal proceedings. Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to GAAP. This measure is the primary metric by which we evaluate the performance of our businesses, on which our marketing expenditures and internal budgets are based and by which management and many employees are compensated. We believe that investors should have access to the same set of tools that we use in analyzing our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. We provide and encourage investors to examine the reconciling adjustments between the GAAP and non-GAAP measures discussed below. Definition of Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as net income from continuing operations adjusted to exclude interest, income tax, amortization of intangibles and depreciation, and to further exclude (1) non-cash compensation expense, (2) non-cash impairment charges, (3) gain/loss on disposal of assets, (4) restructuring and severance expenses, (5) litigation settlements and contingencies and legal fees for certain patent litigation, (6) acquisitions and dispositions income or expense (including with respect to changes in fair value of contingent consideration) and (7) one-time items. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to our statement of operations of certain expenses, including depreciation, non-cash compensation and acquisition-related accounting. We endeavor to compensate for the limitations of the non-GAAP measures presented by also 27 Table of Contents providing the comparable GAAP measures with equal or greater prominence and descriptions of the reconciling items, including quantifying such items, to derive the non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. One-Time Items Adjusted EBITDA is adjusted for one-time items, if applicable. Items are considered one-time in nature if they are non-recurring, infrequent or unusual and have not occurred in the past two years or are not expected to recur in the next two years, in accordance with SEC rules. For the periods presented in this report, there are no adjustments for one-time items. Non-Cash Expenses that are Excluded from Adjusted EBITDA Non-cash compensation expense consists principally of expense associated with grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options. These expenses are not paid in cash, and we include the related shares in our calculations of fully diluted shares outstanding. Upon settlement of restricted stock units, exercise of certain stock options or vesting of restricted stock awards, the awards may be settled, on a net basis, with us remitting the required tax withholding amount from our current funds. Amortization of intangibles are non-cash expenses relating primarily to intangible assets acquired through acquisitions. At the time of an acquisition, the intangible assets of the acquired company, such as purchase agreements, technology and customer relationships, are valued and amortized over their estimated lives. The following table is a reconciliation of net income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) . Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Net income from continuing operations $ 7,798 $ 6,905 Adjustments to reconcile to Adjusted EBITDA: Amortization of intangibles 2,609 25 Depreciation 1,703 998 Severance 157 Loss on disposal of assets 273 127 Non-cash compensation 2,230 2,633 Change in fair value of contingent consideration 8,746 Acquisition expense 549 Litigation settlements and contingencies 404 169 Interest expense, net 165 142 Rental depreciation and amortization of intangibles 262 Income tax (benefit) expense (1,079 ) 4,798 Adjusted EBITDA $ 23,817 $ 15,797 Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources General As of March 31, 2017 , we had $105.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and $4.1 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents, compared to $91.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and $4.1 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2016 . In November 2016, we acquired CompareCards for $80.7 million cash at closing and potential future contingent consideration payments of up to $22.5 million for each of 2017 and 2018, subject to achieving specified targets. See Note 5 Business Acquisitions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information. We expect our cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations to be sufficient to fund our operating needs for the next twelve months and beyond. Our revolving credit facility described below is an additional potential source of liquidity. 28 Table of Contents Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility On October 22, 2015, we established a $125.0 million five-year Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility which matures on October 22, 2020 (the Revolving Credit Facility). The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be used to finance working capital needs, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including to finance permitted acquisitions. As of April 28, 2017 , we do not have any borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. For additional information on the Revolving Credit Facility, see Note 10 Revolving Credit Facility, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Cash Flows from Continuing Operations Our cash flows attributable to continuing operations are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 17,184 $ 10,371 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (1,887 ) 303 Net cash used in financing activities (95 ) (43,115 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our largest source of cash provided by our operating activities is revenues generated by our mortgage and non-mortgage products. Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include advertising and promotional payments and fees paid for consumer inquiries. In addition, our uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and other employee-related costs, other general corporate expenditures, litigation settlements and contingencies and income taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations increased in the first three months of 2017 from the first three months of 2016 primarily due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in selling and marketing expense. Additionally, there was a net decrease in cash from changes in working capital primarily driven by changes in accounts receivable, income taxes payable and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in the first three months of 2017 of $1.9 million consisted primarily of capital expenditures related to internally developed software. Net cash provided by investing activities attributable to continuing operations in the first three months of 2016 of $0.3 million consisted primarily of a $2.5 million decrease in restricted cash due to the release of funds in escrow for the surety bonds due to a reduction in collateral requirements, partially offset by capital expenditures of $2.2 million primarily related to internally developed software. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in the first three months of 2017 of $0.1 million consisted of payments of withholding taxes upon surrender of shares to satisfy obligations on equity awards, net of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in the first three months of 2016 of $43.1 million consisted primarily of the repurchase of our stock of $40.5 million and $2.6 million in withholding taxes paid by us upon surrender of shares to satisfy obligations on equity awards. 29 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements other than our operating lease obligations and funding commitments pursuant to our surety bonds, none of which have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. New Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2- Significant Accounting Policies, in Part I, Item 1 Financial Statements .