Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Report). In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly in Part I - Item 1A - Risk Factors in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 (Annual Report). Overview Lending Club is the worlds largest online marketplace connecting borrowers and investors. We believe a technology-powered marketplace is a more efficient mechanism to allocate capital between borrowers and investors than the traditional banking system. Consumers and small business owners borrow through Lending Club to lower the cost of their credit and enjoy a better experience than traditional bank lending. Investors use Lending Club to earn attractive risk-adjusted returns from an asset class that has generally been closed to many investors and only available on a limited basis to institutional investors. Since beginning operations in 2007 , our marketplace has facilitated $9.3 billion in loan originations. These loans were facilitated through the following investment channels: (i) the issuance of notes, (ii) the sale of certificates, or (iii) the sale of whole loans to qualified investors. In the first quarter of 2015 , our marketplace facilitated $1.6 billion of loan originations, of which approximately $0.3 billion were invested in through notes, $0.5 billion were invested in through certificates and $0.8 billion were invested in through whole loan sales. Our trusted brand, scale and network effect drives significant borrowing and investing activity on our marketplace. We generate revenue from transaction fees from our marketplaces role in matching borrowers with investors to enable loan originations, servicing fees from investors and management fees from investment funds and other managed accounts. We do not assume credit risk or use our own capital to invest in loans facilitated by our marketplace, except in limited circumstances and in amounts that are not material. The capital to invest in the loans enabled through our marketplace comes directly from investors. Our proprietary technology automates key aspects of our operations, including the borrower application process, data gathering, credit decisioning and scoring, loan funding, investing and servicing, regulatory compliance and fraud detection. We operate with a lower cost structure than traditional banks due to our innovative model, online delivery and process automation, without the physical branches, legacy technology or high overhead associated with the traditional banking system. Our marketplace is where borrowers and investors engage in transactions relating to unsecured standard or custom program loans. Standard program loans which are part of the publicly available standard program, are three- or five-year unsecured personal loans which are offered to borrowers with a FICO score of at least 660 and that meet other strict credit criteria. These loans can be invested in through the purchase of notes issued pursuant to a note registration statement, and are only available through our website. Separately, qualified investors may also invest in standard program loans in private transactions not facilitated through our website. Custom program loans are only invested in through private transactions with qualified investors, for which notes are not available and are not visible through our public website. Custom program loans include small business loans, super prime consumer loans, lending platform loans, education and patient finance loans and personal loans that do not meet the requirements of standard program loans. 20 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) The transaction fees we receive from issuing banks in connection with our marketplaces role in facilitating loan originations range from 1% to 6% of the initial principal amount of the loan as of March 31, 2015 . In addition, for education and patient finance loans, transaction fees may exceed 6% . Servicing fees paid to us vary based on investment channel. Note investors generally pay us a servicing fee equal to 1% of each payment amount received from the borrower; whole loan purchasers pay a monthly servicing fee up to 1.3% per annum on the month-end principal balance of loans serviced and certificate holders generally pay a monthly management fee ranging from 0.7% to 1.5% per annum of the month-end balance of assets under management. Loans to qualified borrowers are originated by issuing banks. Investors can invest in loans that are offered through our marketplace in one or all of the following channels: Notes: Pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement, investors who meet the applicable financial suitability requirements and have completed our investor account opening process may purchase unsecured, borrower payment dependent notes that correspond to payments received on an underlying standard program loan selected by the investor. When an investor registers with us, the investor enters into an investor agreement with us that governs the investors purchases of notes. Our note channel is supported by our website knowledge base and our investor services group who provide basic customer support to these investors. Certificates and Investment Funds: Accredited investors and qualified purchasers may establish a relationship with LCA or another third-party advisor in order to indirectly invest in certificates, or they may directly purchase a certificate or interests in separate limited partnership entities that purchase certificates. The certificates are unsecured and are settled with cash flows from underlying standard or custom program loans selected by the investor. Neither certificates nor limited partnership interests can be purchased through our website. Certificate investors typically seek to invest larger amounts as compared to the average note investors and often desire a more hands off approach to investing. Investors in certificates generally pay an asset-based management fee instead of cash flow-based servicing fee paid by note investors. Whole Loan Purchases: Certain institutional investors, such as banks, seek to hold the actual loan on their balance sheet. To meet this need, we sell entire standard or custom program loans to these investors through purchase agreements. Upon the sale of the loan, the investor owns all right, title and interest in the loan. We establish the investors accounts and the procedures for the purchase of loans, including any purchase amount limitations, which we control at our discretion. We and the investor also make limited representations and warranties and agree to indemnify each other for breaches of the purchase agreement. The investor also agrees to simultaneously enter into a servicing agreement with us which designates us as the loan servicer for the sold loan. We continue to service these loans after they are sold and can only be removed as the servicer in limited circumstances. For regulatory purposes, the investor also has access to the underlying borrower information, but is prohibited from contacting or marketing to the borrower in any manner and agrees to hold such borrower information in compliance with all applicable privacy laws. For all investment channels, we agree to repurchase loans in cases of confirmed identity theft. Springstone In April 2014 , we acquired all of the outstanding limited liability company interests of Springstone. See Part II -