Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Current Economic and Business Environment . Robust Network Effects. Our online lending marketplace exhibits network effects that are driven by the number of participants and investments enabled through our lending marketplace. More participation leads to greater potential to match borrowers with investors. Additionally, increased participation results in the generation of substantial data that is used to improve the effectiveness of the credit decisioning and scoring models, investment by larger investors with lower cost of capital, enhance our performance record and generate increasing trust in our lending marketplace. Technology Platform. Our technology platform powers our online lending marketplace and enables us to deliver proprietary solutions to borrowers and investors. Our technology platform automates most of our operations. Proprietary Risk Assessment. We use proprietary algorithms to apply the respective issuing banks credit model that leverage behavioral data, transactional data, bank data and employment information to supplement traditional risk assessment tools, such as Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) scores. We have built our technology platform to automate the application of these proprietary algorithms to each individual borrowers application profile. This approach allows us to evaluate and segment each potential borrowers risk profile and price the loan accordingly. Products Borrowers Our lending marketplace facilitates several types of loan products. Personal Loans. Our lending marketplace facilitates unsecured personal loans that can be used to refinance credit card balances, make major purchases or for other purposes. Personal loans are offered through both our standard and custom loan programs and we offer multiple features including the ability for joint applications and balance transfers where a borrowers existing debt is paid down. Personal loans approved through our standard loan program represent loans made to prime borrowers, and include amounts from $1,000 to $40,000 , maturities of three or five years, fixed interest rates, and no prepayment penalties. These loans must meet certain minimum credit requirements, including a FICO score of at least 660 , satisfactory debt-to-income ratios, 36 months of credit history 5 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION and a limited number of credit inquiries in the previous six months. Personal loans that fall outside of the credit criteria for the standard program, including loans made to super-prime and near-prime borrowers, might qualify under our custom program and include amounts from $1,000 to $50,000, maturities of three or five years, fixed interest rates, and no prepayment penalties. Education and Patient Finance Loans. We facilitate unsecured education and patient installment loans and promotional rate and promotional no-interest loans through Springstone, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and its issuing bank partners. Installment loan terms include amounts from $2,000 to $50,000 , maturities from two to seven years, fixed interest rates and no prepayment penalties. The promotional rate and no-interest loan terms include amounts ranging from $499 to $32,000 , maturities from six months to five years, and a fixed promotional interest rate or no required interest payment if the balance is paid in full during the promotional period, which can range from 6 to 60 months. For both the promotional rate and no-interest loans, there is no prepayment penalty and borrowers have the flexibility and discretion to pay as much or as little of the outstanding principal balance during the promotional period, subject to applicable minimums. After the promotional period, promotional rate and no-interest loans will adjust to a predetermined fixed interest rate. Auto Refinance Loans . We facilitate secured auto refinance loans that can be used to help eligible consumers save money by refinancing into more affordable loans with lower rates and better loan terms. Installment loan terms include amounts ranging from $5,000 to $55,000 , with maturities ranging from two to six years. Borrowers are required to make monthly amortizing payments, and there are no prepayment penalties. Small Business Loans . We facilitate small business loans that enable small business owners to expand their business, purchase equipment or inventory, or meet other obligations at an affordable rate. Small business loans are fixed-rate loans in amounts ranging from $5,000 to $300,000, with maturities of one to five years, and contain no prepayment penalties or fees. Investors Investors have the opportunity to invest in a wide range of loans based on term and credit characteristics. Personal loans that are approved through the standard loan program are offered to all investors on our platform . Custom program loans, which include loans made to super-prime and near-prime borrowers, education and patient finance loans, auto refinance loans, new offerings, and other loans that fall outside of the credit criteria of the standard program, are offered to private investors only. All investors are provided access to a borrowers proprietary credit grade and credit profile data on each approved and listed loan, as well as historical performance data on loans issued through our lending marketplace since its inception. Upon the completion of loan sales and securitizations, the investor owns all rights, title and interest in the loan. We establish the investors accounts and the procedures for the purchase of loans, including any negotiated purchase amount limitations. We and the investor also typically make representations and warranties and agree to indemnify each other for certain breaches of the purchase agreement. For the vast majority of our whole loans sold, the investor also agrees to simultaneously enter into a servicing agreement with us to service the sold loan. We can be removed as the servicer in limited circumstances. For certain loans, under our contractual relationships we are not the servicer. For regulatory purposes, the investor has access to the underlying borrower information, but is generally prohibited from contacting or marketing to the borrower and agrees to hold such borrower information in compliance with all applicable privacy laws. We make loans available through a Scale program and a Select program. Once loans are approved on the platform, they are randomly allocated at a grade and term level under the Scale program to retail investors purchasing interests in fractions of loans or to institutional investors purchasing whole loans. This helps to ensure that investors have access to comparable loans and loans are allocated randomly. Under the Select program, investors can specifically identify loans they want to purchase. 6 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Our success depends in part on investors participating on our lending marketplace and, as of the date of this Report, we have a variety of investors on our platform that enable us to facilitate our origination volume. However, a relatively small number of loan investors, including us, represent a large percentage of the capital on our platform, which enable the funding of loans and our associated transaction fee revenue. See Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investments in Quarterly Originations by Investment Channel and Investor Concentration for further discussion of and information regarding our investor concentration. Investors can invest in loans through one or all of the following channels: Whole Loan Purchases: Certain institutional investors, such as banks, asset managers, insurance companies, hedge funds and other large non-bank investors, seek to hold whole loans on their balance sheets. To meet this need, we sell entire loans to these investors through purchase agreements. In the third quarter of 2017, we began a recurring process of aggregating whole loans on our balance sheet to facilitate a subsequent sale to third-party investors as whole loans or through securitization or CLUB Certificate transactions. Securitizations: The Company securitizes a portion of the unsecured personal loans we facilitate through asset-backed securitization transactions. In connection with asset-backed securitizations, the Company is the sponsor and establishes securitization trusts to ultimately purchase the loans from the Company and/or third-party whole loan investors. Securities issued from our asset-backed securitizations are senior or subordinated based on the waterfall criteria of loan payments to each security class. The residual interests issued from these transactions are first to absorb credit losses in accordance with the waterfall criteria. As the sponsor for securitization transactions, the Company manages the completion of the transaction and earns fees from third party participants. We use our own capital to purchase certain of the loans that are subsequently contributed to these deals. As a result of our securitization capability, we have broadened our platforms access to a large and liquid asset-backed securities market, reached new institutional investors, and provided the Company a capital markets financing alternative. CLUB Certificates: The Company sponsors the sale of unsecured personal whole loans through the issuance of pass-through securities called CLUB Certificates, which are collateralized by loans transferred to a series of a Master Trust. The Company introduced the CLUB Certificate, which is an instrument that trades in the over-the-counter market with a CUSIP. The sale of CLUB Certificates results in more liquidity and demand for our unsecured personal loans. Each owner of a CLUB Certificate has an undivided and equal interest in the underlying loans of each transaction. The CLUB Certificate is tailored for institutional investors seeking a liquid investment with which to access the consumer credit asset class. Notes: We issue notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement (Note Registration Statement). Eligible investors in those states in which we sell member payment dependent notes (notes for which cash flows to investors are dependent upon principal and interest payments made by borrowers) who have completed our investor account opening process may purchase unsecured, member payment dependent notes that correspond to payments received on an underlying standard program loan selected by the investor. When an investor registers with us, the investor enters into an investor agreement that governs the investors purchases of notes. Our note channel is supported by our website and our Investor Services group, which provides basic customer support to these investors. Certificates: Previously, accredited investors and qualified purchasers were able to invest in member payment dependent certificates issued by the LC Trust. Effective December 2016, the LC Trust ceased offering new certificates, but legacy investors may continue to reinvest via previously-issued certificates. Technology The LendingClub platform is based on technology that we believe is reliable, scalable, flexible and secure. We have a strong culture of innovation focused on developing our platform as we anticipate the evolving needs of our customers. Key elements of our technology include: 7 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Automated. Our borrower and investor acquisition process, registration, credit decisioning and scoring, servicing and payment systems are automated using internally developed and third-party licensed software. Our proprietary cash management software processes electronic cash movements, records platform entries and calculates cash balances in our borrower and investor accounts. In nearly all payment transactions, an Automated Clearing House (ACH) electronic payment network is used to disburse loan proceeds, collect borrower loan payments, receive funds from investors and disburse payments to investors. Scalable Platform. Our scalable infrastructure utilizes standard techniques, such as virtualization, load-balancing and high-availability platforms. Our application and database tiers are designed to be scaled horizontally by adding additional servers as needed. In addition, a portion of our infrastructure runs on a cloud-based platform, giving instantaneous scalability and rapid business agility. Proprietary Fraud Detection. We use a combination of third-party data, sophisticated analytical tools and current and historical data obtained during the loan application process to help assess fraud risk. We have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. High-risk loan applications are subject to further investigation. In cases of confirmed fraud, the application is cancelled, and we identify and flag characteristics of the loan application to help refine our fraud detection efforts. Data Integrity and Security. We seek to maintain an effective information security program based on well-established security standards and best practices. The program establishes policies to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of borrower and investor information. The program also includes risk assessment, training, access control, encryption, service provider oversight, and an incident response program. Application Programming Interface. Our application programming interface, referred to as our API, provides investors and partners with access to publicly available loan attributes and allows them to analyze data and place orders meeting their criteria without visiting our website. Investors and partners may create their own software that uses our API or they may use a variety of third-party services that invest via our API. Relationships with Issuing Bank Partners Loans facilitated through our lending marketplace are originated by our issuing bank partners. Our issuing bank for unsecured personal and auto loans is WebBank, a Utah-chartered industrial bank that handles a variety of consumer financing programs. Our contractual arrangements with WebBank provide WebBank with a right to originate a certain percentage of loans facilitated through our platform. Additionally, we rely on NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank as issuing banks for our education and patient finance loans. As of the date of this Report, no backup issuing banks have originated any loans facilitated through our marketplace and we do not have backup issuing bank arrangements. We have entered into a loan account program agreement with WebBank that governs the terms and conditions between us and WebBank with respect to loans facilitated through our lending marketplace and originated by WebBank, including our obligations for servicing the loans during the period of time that the loans are owned by WebBank. WebBank pays us a transaction fee for our role in processing loan applications through our lending marketplace on WebBanks behalf. The transaction fee we earn corresponds with the origination fee that WebBank charges the borrower. We pay WebBank a monthly program fee based on the amount of loans issued by WebBank and purchased by us or our investors in a given month, subject to a minimum monthly fee. Under a loan sale agreement, WebBank may sell us loans without recourse two business days after WebBank originates the loan. The loan account program agreement and the loan sale agreement initially terminate in 8 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION January 2020, with two additional automatic, one-year renewal terms, subject to certain early termination provisions set forth in the agreements. Our issuing banks for education and patient finance loans are NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank, which originate and service each education and patient finance loan. These issuing banks retain some of these loans while others are offered to private investors or purchased by us. In instances where we are unable to arrange for private investors to purchase education and patient finance loans we are contractually committed to purchase them. For our role in loan facilitation, we recognize transaction fees paid by the issuing banks and education and patient service providers once the loan is issued and the proceeds are delivered to the borrower. Credit Decisioning and Scoring Process Our lending marketplace provides an integrated and automated loan application and credit decisioning and scoring process. Borrowers come to our platform to apply online for a loan. During the simple application process, our platform uses proprietary risk algorithms that leverage behavioral data, transactional data and employment information to supplement traditional risk assessment tools, such as FICO scores, to assess a borrowers risk profile. For certain loans, our verification processes and analysts then verify the borrowers identity, income or employment by connecting with various data providers to determine whether to approve the loan request, in accordance with the issuing banks credit policy. We utilize an outsourced provider to assist us in the processing of certain loan applications. Borrowers are then assigned a loan grade based on their risk profile, loan term and loan amount. Our lending marketplaces credit decisioning and scoring models are evaluated on a regular basis and the additional data on loan history experience, borrower behavior, economic factors and prepayment trends that we accumulate are leveraged to make modifications to the models. This information assists us in assessing if and when to propose further changes to the credit model or pricing for consideration by the issuing banks who originate loans facilitated through our platform. Our lending marketplaces credit decisioning and scoring models assign each loan offered on our lending marketplace a corresponding interest rate and origination fee. We believe we have the experience and capabilities to effectively evaluate a borrowers credit worthiness and likelihood of default, offering competitive risk-adjusted return opportunities for loan investors. Loan Issuance Mechanism 9 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Once a loan application is received, we present the borrower with various loan options, including term, rate and amount, for which they qualify. After the applicant selects their personalized financing option and completes the application process, we may perform additional verifications on the borrower. Once the verifications are completed, the loan will be listed for at least 14 days and up to 30 days on our platform to attract investor commitments. Once sufficient investor commitments are received, the issuing bank originates and issues the loan to the borrower, net of the origination fee charged and retained by the issuing bank. After the loan is issued, we use the proceeds from these investors to purchase the loan from the issuing bank. Investor cash balances (excluding payments in process) are held in segregated bank or custodial accounts and are not commingled with our monies. If insufficient investor commitments are received, the Company may purchase loans with its own capital to balance the marketplace. Loan Servicing We service the majority of the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace, except for patient and education finance loans and auto refinance loans. Loan servicing includes account maintenance, collections, processing payments from borrowers and distributions to investors. We utilize an outsourced provider and third-party collection agencies to assist us in the servicing of certain loans.We have made arrangements for backup servicing with First Associates Loan Servicing, LLC, and Millennium Trust Company, LLC. Loan payments for loans that we service are primarily made through an ACH withdrawal from the borrowers bank account. Principal and interest payments on loans are then remitted to investors utilizing ACH. This automated process provides a higher degree of certainty for timely payments. This process also provides us with prompt notice in the event of a missed payment, which allows us to respond quickly to attempt to resolve the delinquency with the borrower. Generally, in the first 30 days that a loan is delinquent, our Payment Solutions team works to bring the account current. Once the loan becomes more than 30 days delinquent, we will typically outsource subsequent servicing efforts to third-party collection agencies. The servicing fee paid by investors is designed to cover the day-to-day processing costs of loans. If a loan needs more intensive collection focus, whether internal or external, we may charge investors a collection fee to compensate us for the costs of this collection activity. This fee varies, with a maximum of up to 35% of the amount recovered. There is no collection fee charged if no loan payments are recovered. We sell most loans that have been charged-off to third parties. All proceeds received on these sales are subject to a collection fee. Competition The lending industry is highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative and subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. We compete against a wide range of financial products and companies that attract borrowers, investors or both. With respect to borrowers, we primarily compete with other online consumer lending marketplaces and traditional financial institutions, such as banks, credit unions, and credit card issuers. We believe that our brand, marketplace model, scale, network effect, and historical data provide us with significant competitive strengths over current and future competitors. We anticipate that more established internet, technology and financial services companies that possess large customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels, may have significant competitive advantages as a result and will continue to enter the market. We believe our proprietary lending marketplace model, online delivery and process automation enable us to operate more efficiently and with more competitive rates and higher borrower satisfaction than these competitors. With respect to investors, we primarily compete with other investment vehicles and asset classes, such as equities, bonds and short-term fixed income securities. We believe that our diverse and customizable investment options give us the flexibility to offer competitive risk-adjusted returns. In addition to the discussion in this section, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Substantial and increasing competition in our industry may harm our business, for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business. 10 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Sales and Marketing Our marketing efforts are designed to attract and retain borrowers and investors and build brand awareness and reputation. We use a diverse array of marketing channels and are constantly seeking to improve and optimize our experience both on- and offline to achieve efficiency and a high level of borrower and investor satisfaction. Currently, we believe reputation, word of mouth and our direct to consumer marketing activities (including direct mail, digital and search engine advertising and email marketing), the participation with online aggregators and referrals from strategic relationships continue to drive growth in our investor and borrower base. Regulatory and Compliance Framework The regulatory environment for lending and online marketplaces such as ours is complex, evolving and uncertain, creating both challenges and opportunities that could affect our financial performance. We are subject to extensive and complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination by various federal, state and local government authorities designed to, among other things, protect borrowers (such as truth in lending, equal credit opportunity, fair credit reporting and fair debt collection practices) and investors. State and federal laws may limit the fees that may be assessed on the loans facilitated through our platform, require extensive disclosure to, and consents from, the borrowers and investors, prohibit discrimination and unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices and may impose multiple qualification and licensing obligations on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace. Failure to comply with any of these rules, regulations or requirements may result in, among other things, lawsuits (including class action lawsuits) or administrative enforcement actions seeking monetary damages, fines or civil monetary penalties, restitution or other payments to borrowers or investors, modifications to business practices, revocation of required licenses or registrations, or voiding of loan contracts. Our compliance framework is a cornerstone of the lending marketplace that allows investors to participate in consumer and commercial credit as an asset class. Our relationship with issuing banks is a key component of our compliance framework, as described below. WebBank, the primary bank whose loans we facilitate, is subject to oversight by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank, whose education and patient finance loans we facilitate, are our two other issuing banks. NBT Bank is subject to oversight by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and Comenity Capital Bank is subject to oversight by the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. These authorities impose obligations and restrictions on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace. As part of our ongoing compliance program, we have customer identification processes in place to enable us to detect and prevent fraud, money laundering, and terrorist financing, and identify customers who may be on government watchlists, such as those from the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. We compare users identities against these lists at least twice a month for continued compliance and oversight. If a user were to appear on a list, we would take appropriate action to resolve the issue in accordance with company policies and anti-money laundering obligations. In addition to our identification and transaction monitoring compliance programs, we use technology to assist us in complying with applicable federal anti-money laundering laws on both sides of our business model, for borrowers and investors. Regulations and Licensing The lending and securities industries are highly regulated. In certain respects, we are regulated differently than a bank because, unlike a bank, we do not take deposits or issue our own loans under a bank charter. Our current issuing banks originate all of the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace and are subject to regulation by the FDIC and/or other relevant federal and state regulators. 11 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Further, federal and state governmental authorities impose additional obligations and restrictions on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace as part of their oversight of the third party service providers of the issuing banks. While compliance with such requirements is at times complicated by our business model, the Company strives to ensure compliance with all applicable rules and regulations. Current Regulatory Environment We believe that our issuing bank partnership model is appropriate for all the jurisdictions in which we operate and we strive to work with federal, state and local regulatory agencies to help them understand our model and its benefits for consumers. However, we operate in a complex and evolving regulatory environment at the federal and state level and some enforcement authorities and private parties have challenged the ability of nonbank agents in certain lending programs, in some cases with similarities to ours, to rely on legislative and judicial authority that permits an FDIC-insured depository institution, such as WebBank, to "export" interest rates permitted by the laws of the state where the bank is located, regardless of the usury limitations imposed by the laws of the state of the borrowers residence. In May 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its decision in Madden v. Midland Funding , LLC that interpreted the scope of federal preemption under the National Bank Act (NBA) and held that a nonbank assignee of a loan originated by a national bank was not entitled to the benefits of federal preemption of claims of usury. The Second Circuits decision is binding on federal courts located in Connecticut, New York, and Vermont, but the decision could also be adopted by other courts. An extension of the application of the Second Circuit's decision, either within or outside the states in the Second Circuit, could challenge the federal preemption of state laws setting interest rate limitations for loans made by issuing bank partners in those states. The defendant petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to review the decision and in March 2016, the Court invited the Solicitor General to file a brief expressing the views of the U.S. on the petition. The Solicitor General filed an amicus brief that stated the Second Circuit decision was incorrect, but that the case was not yet ready to be heard by the Supreme Court. In June 2016, the Supreme Court declined to hear the case. The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York is now hearing the case in regards to Midlands alternative claim under a choice of law analysis, and application of state law. More recently, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on remand held that applying the Delaware choice of law provision specified in the loan contract, which would have resulted in the application of Delaware law that has no limit on allowable interest rates, would violate a fundamental public policy of New Yorks criminal usury statute. The court then concluded that the New York usury law, and not Delaware law, applied to the consumer loan at issue in the case. While we believe that our program is factually distinguishable from the Madden case, in 2016 we revised our agreement with our primary issuing bank to further distinguish the operation of the program from the Second Circuits analysis of the facts in Madden. Under the revised program structure, an additional component of the program fee arrangement was created. This additional program fee component is dependent on the amount and timing of principal and interest payments made by borrowers of the underlying loans. Under this revised program structure, the majority of the banks revenue related to the loans facilitated on our platform is therefore tied to the terms and performance of the loans. The bank also maintains an ongoing contractual relationship with borrowers, who may seek additional credit through the LendingClub program in the future. In addition, a bill was passed in late 2017 by the House of Representatives that could clarify that any loan originated by a national bank would be entitled to the benefits of federal preemption on claims of usury provided that certain criteria are met. However, the bill was never passed by the Senate and we do not know whether this bill will be reintroduced in the current Congress or, if it is, whether it will pass or, if it does pass, what its final terms will be or its potential impact on our business. In August 2016, a federal district court in the Central District of California considered a case brought by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) against CashCall, Inc. In that case, CashCall had an arrangement with a lender owned by a member of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe in which loans were offered to borrowers at annual percentage rates that could exceed 300 percent. The District Court ruled that, under the facts presented in the 12 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION case, CashCall should be deemed the true lender and could not charge interest rates in excess of state usury laws. In January 2017, the court issued an order staying the decision for interlocutory appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, over the CFPBs objections. The defendants then filed a petition for appeal with the Ninth Circuit, which was ultimately denied. More recently, the District Court ordered CashCall to pay approximately $10.2 million in civil money penalties, but no consumer restitution. In issuing the judgment, which was significantly less than the $280 million the CFPB sought in penalties and consumer restitution, the District Court found that CashCall had not knowingly or recklessly violated consumer protection laws, and that the CFPB had not demonstrated that consumer restitution was an appropriate remedy. We believe that our program is factually distinguishable from the CashCall case. Separately, in September 2016 in Beechum v. Navient Solutions, Inc. , also in the federal district court in the Central District of California, the court considered a program in which a national bank had a bank partnership with a nonbank, the Student Loan Marketing Association (SLMA), in which borrowers could receive loans originated by the bank through the SLMA. The court rejected the argument that the SLMA was the true lender, holding that the face of the borrower transactions showed that the bank had originated the loans and any further analysis to look behind the face of the transaction was inappropriate. In December 2016, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC) released a white paper and sought public comment on whether to charter a new type of special purpose national bank to facilitate the provision of core banking activities through financial technology (fintech). We, along with other interested parties, submitted responses in January 2017. In March 2017, the OCC issued a Licensing Manual Draft Supplement for Evaluating Charter Applications From Financial Technology Companies (Manual Draft Supplement) explaining how the OCC intends to apply the licensing standards and requirements in existing regulations and policies to fintech companies applying for special purpose national bank charters. In response to the Manual Draft Supplement, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors (CSBS) and the New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) each filed suit challenging the authority of the OCC to issue charters to fintech companies. In December 2017, the suit filed by the NYDFS was dismissed without prejudice on the ground that the claims were not ripe because no charters had yet been issued under the Manual Draft Supplement and that the OCC has yet to definitively conclude whether to move forward. However, in July 2018, the OCC issued a policy statement announcing that the OCC will consider applications for special purpose national bank charters from fintech companies that are engaged in the business of banking but do not take deposits. In making its policy statement, the OCC also noted, A national bank charter is only one option among many for companies engaged in the business of banking. Other options include pursuing state banking charters, appropriate business licenses, and partnerships with other federal or state financial institutions. After the policy statement, the CSBS and NYDFS again filed lawsuits in September 2018 and October 2018, respectively, challenging the authority of the OCC to issue charters to fintech companies. As the Company continually evaluates its structure, product offerings and future plans, the Company will continue to review and evaluate the proposed fintech charter. At the state level, certain states are considering the scope of their regulation and oversight of the financial technology industry. For example, we have participated with other financial technology companies in providing information and perspective to the California Department of Business Oversight. The application of state laws to our business, now or as they may be written or interpreted in the future, could have a significant impact on our ability to do business in any given state. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Regulatory Environment for further discussion of applicable matters in Colorado and New York. The CFPB, which commenced operations in July 2011, has broad authority over the businesses in which we engage. This includes authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and to enforce those laws against and examine large financial institutions, such as our issuing banks, for compliance. The CFPB is authorized to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices through its regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority. We are subject to the regulatory and enforcement authority of the CFPB, as a facilitator, servicer or acquirer of consumer credit. Since its creation, the CFPB has announced larger participant rules to expand its supervisory authority in various areas of 13 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION the financial industry. The CFPB has announced larger participant rules for auto lenders, and as our auto refinance business grows, we may meet the definition of a larger participant in the auto loan arena and become subject to supervision, examination and greater oversight by the CFPB. The CFPB has not yet announced specifics regarding its proposed rulemaking for installment loan lenders and, consequently, there continues to be uncertainty as to how the CFPBs strategies and priorities, including any final rules, will impact our unsecured installment loan business and our results of operations going forward. Also in July 2018, the United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury) issued a report entitled, A Financial System That Creates Economic Opportunities: Nonbank Financials, Fintech, and Innovation (Treasury Report). In the Treasury Report, the Treasury sought to identify improvements to the regulatory landscape that will better support nonbank financial institutions, embrace financial technology, and foster innovation. In the Treasury Report, the Treasury recommended that Congress codify (or regulators clarify) that a bank originating loans through a partnership with a third party (including financial technology companies) remains the true lender and that the loans may be fully enforceable according to their terms. State Licensing Requirements In most states we believe, because of our issuing bank model, we are exempt from or satisfy relevant licensing requirements with respect to the origination of loans we facilitate. However, we may need, and have obtained, one or more state licenses to broker, acquire, service and/or enforce loans. As needed, we have endeavored to apply and obtain the appropriate licenses. In addition, we have applied for and obtained certain licenses in a number of states that we believe are not necessary to conduct our current activities, but which may facilitate potential evolutions of our business model and provide transparency and an opportunity for interaction with state licensing authorities. Where we have obtained licenses, state licensing statutes may impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on us, including: record-keeping requirements; restrictions on servicing practices, including limits on finance charges and fees; usury rate caps; disclosure requirements; examination requirements; surety bond and minimum net worth requirements; financial reporting requirements; notification requirements for changes in principal officers, stock ownership or corporate control; restrictions on advertising; data security and privacy; and review requirements for loan forms. These statutes may also subject us to the supervisory and examination authority of state regulators in certain cases, and we have experienced, are currently and will likely continue to be subject to and experience exams by state regulators. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Regulation , Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Regulatory Environment and Part II