Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Report). In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly in Part II Other Information Item 1A Risk Factors in this Report and Part I Item 1A Risk Factors in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (Annual Report). Overview Lending Club is the worlds largest online marketplace connecting borrowers and investors. We believe a technology-powered marketplace is a more efficient mechanism to allocate capital between borrowers and investors than the traditional banking system. Qualified consumers and small business owners borrow through Lending Club to lower the cost of their credit and enjoy a better experience than traditional bank lending. Investors use Lending Club to earn attractive risk-adjusted returns from an asset class that has generally been closed to many investors and only available on a limited basis to institutional investors. The capital to invest in the loans enabled through our marketplace comes directly from a wide range of investors, including retail investors, high-net-worth individuals and family offices, banks and finance companies, insurance companies, hedge funds, foundations, pension plans and university endowments, and through a variety of investment channels. Although the Company's overall business model remains premised on the Company not using its balance sheet and assuming credit risk for loans facilitated through our marketplace, the Company may use its capital to support contractual obligations (Pool B loans and repurchase obligations), regulatory commitments (direct mail), support short-term marketplace equilibrium, customer accommodations, or other needs. The Company's use of its capital on the platform from time to time has been, and will be, on terms that are substantially similar to other investors. Additionally, the Company may use its capital to invest in loans associated with the testing or initial launch of new or alternative loan terms, programs or channels to establish a track record of performance prior to facilitating third-party investments in these loans. We generate revenue from transaction fees from our marketplaces role in accepting and decisioning applications for our bank partners to enable loan originations, servicing fees from investors for matching available loan assets with capital, and management fees from investment funds and other managed accounts. Generally, the transaction fees we receive from issuing banks in connection with our marketplaces role in facilitating loan originations range from 1% to 7% of the initial principal amount of the loan as of September 30, 2016 . In addition, for education and patient finance loans, transaction fees may exceed 7% as they include fees earned from issuing banks and service providers. Servicing fees paid to us vary based on investment channel. Note investors generally pay us a servicing fee equal to 1% of payment amounts received from the borrower. Whole loan purchasers pay a monthly servicing fee of up to 1.3% per annum on the month-end principal balance of loans serviced. Certificate holders do not pay a servicing fee, but pay a monthly management fee of up to 1.5% per annum of the month-end balance of assets under management. Since beginning operations in 2007 , our marketplace has facilitated approximately $22.7 billion in loan originations. These loans were facilitated through the following investment channels: (i) the issuance of member payment dependent notes, (ii) the sale of trust certificates, or (iii) the sale of whole loans to qualified investors. Approximately $4.3 billion of our loan originations since inception were invested in through member payment dependent notes, $6.6 billion were invested in through trust certificates and $11.8 billion were invested in through 38 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data and Ratios, or as Noted) whole loan sales. In the third quarter of 2016 , our marketplace facilitated approximately $2.0 billion of loan originations, of which approximately $0.3 billion were invested in through member payment dependent notes, $0.4 billion were invested in through trust certificates and $1.3 billion were invested in through whole loan sales. Board Review As previously disclosed in the Companys Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, in light of the circumstances relating to $22.3 million of near-prime loan sales in private transactions with a single institutional investor, as described below, and related issues involving data integrity and contract approval monitoring and review processes, we conducted a review under the supervision of an independent sub-committee of the board of directors and with the assistance of independent outside counsel and other advisors. The review also focused on investment transactions in the Investment Fund by us and two related persons and the other matters described below. We believe that this review and the review of the additional items discussed below, which were previously disclosed in the Company's current report on Form 8-K filed on June 28, 2016, are substantially complete, although it is possible that additional issues may arise as part of the Companys response to ongoing government requests for information. After the end of the first quarter, we became aware that approximately $15.1 million and $7.2 million in near-prime loans were sold to a single institutional investor in March and April 2016, respectively. The loans in question failed to conform to the investor's express instructions as to a non-credit, non-pricing element. Certain personnel apparently were aware that the sale did not meet the investor's criteria. In one case, involving $3.0 million in loans, an application date was changed in a live Company database in an attempt to appear to meet the investor's requirement, and the balance of the loans were sold in direct contravention of the investor's direction. The change in application date was promptly remediated. The financial impact of the sales of these $22.3 million in near-prime loans would have been to increase reported gains on sales of loans by approximately $150,000, and to derecognize the loans from the condensed consolidated balance sheet. In April 2016, we repurchased these loans at par. As the original transfers to the investor did not meet sale criteria for accounting purposes, the transactions in March 2016 were recorded as secured borrowings and the loans sold to the investor in March were included in loans at fair value on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2016. In April 2016, we resold these loans at par to a different investor who was aware of the reason for the original repurchase. In connection with this review, the Company concluded that, as of June 30, 2016, the Companys internal control over financial reporting was ineffective due to a material weakness and, therefore, the Companys disclosure