Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. While we believe the risks and uncertainties described below include all material risks currently known by us, it is possible that these may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND REGULATION If we are unable to maintain our relationships with issuing banks, our business will suffer. We rely on issuing banks to originate all loans and to comply with various federal, state and other laws. Our primary issuing bank is WebBank, a Utah-chartered industrial bank that handles a variety of consumer and commercial financing programs. Springstone Financial, LLC (Springstone), our wholly-owned subsidiary, relies on NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank as issuing banks for its education and patient finance loans. Our agreements with WebBank are non-exclusive and do not prohibit WebBank from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our current agreements with WebBank have initial terms ending in November 2018, with two automatic, one-year renewal terms, subject to certain early termination provisions as set forth in the agreements. WebBank currently offers loan programs through another online marketplace. WebBank could decide that working with us is not in its interest, could make working with it cost prohibitive or could decide to enter into exclusive or more favorable relationships with our competitors. In addition, WebBank may not perform as expected under our agreements including potentially being unable to accommodate our projected growth in loan volume. We could in the future have disagreements or disputes with WebBank, which could negatively impact or threaten our relationship. WebBank is subject to oversight by the FDIC and the State of Utah and must comply with complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination requirements, including requirements to maintain a certain amount of regulatory capital relative to its outstanding loans. We are a service provider to WebBank, and as such, we are subject to audit by WebBank in accordance with FDIC guidance related to management of third-party vendors. We may also be subject to the examination and enforcement authority of the FDIC as a bank service company covered by the Bank Service Company Act. If WebBank were to suspend, limit or cease its operations or our relationship with WebBank were to otherwise terminate, we would need to implement a substantially similar arrangement with another issuing bank, obtain additional state licenses or curtail our operations. Although we currently have a non-exclusive arrangement with Cross River Bank, another issuing bank, to date Cross River Bank has not originated any loans through our platform. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements with a different issuing bank to replace our existing arrangements, we may not be able to negotiate a comparable alternative arrangement. Transitioning loan originations to a new issuing bank is untested and may result in delays in the issuance of loans or, if our platform becomes inoperable, may result in our inability to facilitate loans through our platform. If we were unable to enter in an alternative arrangement with a different issuing bank, we would need to obtain a state license in each state in which we operate to enable us to originate loans, as well as comply with other state and federal laws, which would be costly and time-consuming. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with WebBank or other issuing banks, our ability to provide loan products could be materially impaired and our operating results would suffer. 17 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION The regulatory framework for our business is evolving and uncertain as federal and state governments consider new laws to regulate online marketplaces such as ours. New laws and regulations, including taxes on services provided by us, as well as continued uncertainty regarding potential new laws or regulations, may negatively affect our business. The regulatory framework for online marketplaces such as ours is evolving and uncertain. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and internationally, or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in new ways, that would affect the operation of our marketplace and the way in which we interact with borrowers and investors. Recognizing the growth in online marketplaces such as ours, in July 2015 the U.S. Treasury Department issued a request for information (RFI) to study the various business models and products offered by online marketplace lenders, the potential for online marketplace lending to expand access to credit to historically underserved borrowers and how the financial regulatory framework should evolve to support the safe growth of the industry. The RFI sought information about a number of topics, including how credit marketplaces manage the risk of fraud and security breaches, how they protect consumers against scams or default, how much investors in the loans rely on borrowed money, and whether the lenders should have to retain some risk relating to the loans they originate or underwrite. We, along with many other interested groups, submitted responses to the Treasurys RFI by the September 30, 2015 deadline. In December 2015, the California Department of Business Oversight sent an online survey to fourteen marketplace lenders, including us, requesting information about our business model, online platform, loan performance and investor funding process. Although the Treasury Department and California Department of Business Oversight are in the information-gathering stage and no interpretive guidance has been released, there is a possibility that our business may become subject to additional or different regulations in the future. The cost and complexity to comply with new laws or regulations could be significant and result in the need to modify our operations and increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass any such costs on to borrowers and investors. A decline in economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, which may negatively impact our business and results of operations. As a credit marketplace, we believe our customers are more highly susceptible to uncertainties and negative trends, real or perceived, in the markets driven by, among other factors, general economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These external economic conditions and resulting trends or uncertainties could adversely impact our customer's ability or desire to participate on our marketplace as borrowers or investors, and consequently could negatively affect our business and results of operations. There continues to be uncertainty as to how the CFPBs actions or the actions of any other new agency could impact our business or that of our issuing banks. The CFPB, which commenced operations in July 2011, has broad authority over the businesses in which we engage. This includes authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and to enforce those laws against and examine large financial institutions, such as our issuing banks, for compliance. The CFPB is authorized to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices through its regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority. To assist in its enforcement, the CFPB maintains an online complaint system that allows consumers to log complaints with respect to various consumer finance products, including the loan products we facilitate. This system could inform future CFPB decisions with respect to its regulatory, enforcement or examination focus. We are subject to the CFPBs jurisdiction, including its enforcement authority, as a servicer and acquirer of consumer credit. The CFPB may request reports concerning our organization, business conduct, markets and activities. The CFPB may also conduct on-site examinations of our business on a periodic basis if the CFPB were to determine, through its complaint system that we were engaging in activities that pose risks to consumers. 18 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION There continues to be uncertainty as to how the CFPBs strategies and priorities, including in both its examination and enforcement processes, will impact our businesses and our results of operations going forward. Actions by the CFPB could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected loan products and services, making them less attractive and restricting our ability to offer them. Although we have committed resources to enhancing our compliance programs, actions by the CFPB or other regulators against us, our issuing banks or our competitors that discourage the use of the marketplace model or suggest to consumers the desirability of other loan products or services could result in reputational harm and a loss of borrowers or investors. Our compliance costs and litigation exposure could increase materially if the CFPB or other regulators enact new regulations, change regulations that were previously adopted, modify, through supervision or enforcement, past regulatory guidance, or interpret existing regulations in a manner different or stricter than have been previously interpreted. If the loans originated through our marketplace were found to violate a states usury laws, we may have to alter our business model and our business could be harmed. The interest rates that are charged to borrowers and that form the basis of payments to investors through our marketplace are enabled by legal principles including (i) the application of federal law to enable an issuing bank that originates the loan to export the interest rates of the jurisdiction where it is located, or (ii) the application of common law choice of law principles based upon factors such as the loan documents terms and where the loan transaction is completed to provide uniform rates to borrowers, or (iii) the application of principles that allow the transferee of a loan to continue to collect interest as provided in the loan document. WebBank, the primary issuing bank of the loans originated through our marketplace, is chartered in, and operates out of, Utah, which allows parties to generally agree by contract to any interest rate. The annual percentage rates offered by WebBank through our marketplace for personal loans as of December 31, 2015 range from 5.99% to 32.99% , which equate to interest rates for investors that range from 5.32% to 28.99% . Certain states, including Utah, have no statutory interest rate limitations on personal loans, while other jurisdictions have a maximum rate. In some jurisdictions, the maximum rate is less than the current maximum rate offered by WebBank through our platform. If the laws of such jurisdictions were found to apply to the loans originated through our marketplace, those loans could be in violation of such laws. In May 2015, based on the facts of that case in which the national bank no longer had any interest in the loan, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its decision in Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC that interpreted the scope of federal preemption under the National Bank Act (NBA) and held that a nonbank assignee of a loan originated by a national bank was not entitled to the benefits of federal preemption of claims of usury. The Second Circuit denied the defendants motion to reconsider the decision and remanded the case to address choice of law matters. The Second Circuits decision is binding on federal courts located in Connecticut, New York, and Vermont, but the decision could also be adopted by other courts. The defendants petition to the U.S. Supreme Court to review the decision is currently pending. We are unable to predict whether the U.S. Supreme Court will review the decision and, if it does, what the outcome will be. If applied to any of the loans originated through our marketplace, the Second Circuits decision could adversely impact our business. If a borrower were to successfully bring claims against us for state usury law violations, and the rate on that borrowers personal loan was greater than that allowed under applicable state law, we could be subject to fines and penalties, including the voiding of loans and repayment of principal and interest to borrowers and investors. We might decide to limit the maximum interest rate on certain loans originated through our marketplace, and we might decide to originate loans under state-specific licenses, where this ruling is applicable. These actions could adversely impact our business. Further, if we were unable to partner with another issuing bank, we would have to substantially modify our business operations from the manner currently contemplated and would be required to maintain state-specific licenses and only provide a limited range of interest rates for personal loans, all of which would substantially reduce our operating efficiency and attractiveness to investors and possibly result in a decline in our operating results. 19 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Several lawsuits have sought to re-characterize certain loan marketers and other originators as lenders. If litigation on similar theories were successful against us, loans facilitated through our marketplace could be subject to state consumer protection laws in a greater number of states. Several lawsuits have brought under scrutiny the association between high-interest payday loan marketers and out-of-state banks. These lawsuits assert that payday loan marketers use out-of-state lenders in order to evade the consumer protection laws imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought to re-characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law and usury restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards and retail purchase finance. Although we believe that our activities are highly distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases, a court or regulatory authority could disagree. Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the loans facilitated through our marketplace if we were re-characterized as a lender, and the loans could be voidable or unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to claims by borrowers, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on us. If we are unable to maintain or increase loan originations facilitated through our marketplace or if existing borrowers or investors do not continue to participate on our marketplace, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid revenue and origination growth through our marketplace in recent periods with originations totaling $8.4 billion , $4.4 billion and $2.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. To continue to grow our business, we must continue to increase loan originations through our marketplace by attracting a large number of new borrowers who meet our platforms lending standards and new and existing investors to invest in these loans. The number of unique borrowers on our marketplace increased over the prior year by 96% , 116% and 151% for the years ending December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The number of unique investors on our marketplace increased over the prior year by 39% , 28% and 44% for the years ending December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. There can be no assurance that this increase in the number of unique borrowers or investors will continue and may decline based upon a variety of internal and external factors. Furthermore, we have experienced a high number of inquiries from potential borrowers who do not meet the criteria for loan application approval. If there are not sufficient qualified loan requests, investors may be unable to deploy their capital in a timely or efficient manner and may seek other investment opportunities. If there are insufficient investor commitments or participation, borrowers may be unable to obtain investment capital for their loans and may stop using our marketplace for their borrowing needs, which will impact our business results. If we experience an increase in defaults on loans facilitated through our marketplace, the return on investment for investors in those loans would be adversely affected and investors may not find investing through our marketplace desirable. We make payments ratably on an investors investment only if we receive the borrowers payments on the corresponding loan. If we do not receive payments on the corresponding loan related to an investment, the investor will not be entitled to any payments under the terms of the investment. Further, investors may have to pay us an additional servicing fee of up to 35% of any amount recovered by us or our third-party collection agencies assigned to collect on the loan. An investor may become dissatisfied with our marketplace if a loan underlying its investment is not repaid and it does not receive full payment. As a result, our reputation may suffer and we may lose investor confidence, which could adversely affect investor participation on our marketplace. 20 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Credit and other information that we receive from borrowers or third parties about a borrower may be inaccurate or may not accurately reflect the borrowers creditworthiness, which may cause us to inaccurately price loans facilitated through our marketplace. Our ability to review and select qualified borrowers depends on obtaining borrower credit information from consumer reporting agencies, such as TransUnion, Experian or Equifax, and we assign loan grades to loan requests based on our marketplaces credit decisioning and scoring models that take into account reported credit score, other information reported by the consumer reporting agencies and the requested loan amount, in addition to a variety of other factors. A credit score or loan grade assigned to a borrower may not reflect that borrowers actual creditworthiness because the credit score may be based on outdated, incomplete or inaccurate consumer reporting data, and we do not verify the information obtained from the borrowers credit report. Additionally, there is a risk that, following the date of the credit report that we obtain and review, a borrower may have: become delinquent in the payment of an outstanding obligation; defaulted on a pre-existing debt obligation; taken on additional debt; or sustained other adverse financial events. In addition, borrowers supply a variety of information that is included in the loan listings on our marketplace. Other than as described below, we do not verify this information, and it may be inaccurate or incomplete. For example, we often do not verify a borrowers stated tenure, job title, home ownership status or intention for the use of loan proceeds. If borrowers default on loans that are not priced correctly because the information provided by the borrowers or third parties is inaccurate, investors may try to rescind their affected investments in these loans and our reputation may be harmed. If the credit decisioning and scoring models we use contain errors or are otherwise ineffective, our reputation and relationships with borrowers and investors could be harmed and our market share could decline. Our ability to attract borrowers and investors to, and build trust in, our marketplace is significantly dependent on our ability to effectively evaluate a borrowers credit profile and likelihood of default. To conduct this evaluation, we utilize credit decisioning and scoring models that assign each loan offered on our marketplace a grade and a corresponding interest rate. Our marketplaces credit decisioning and scoring models are based on algorithms that evaluate a number of factors, including behavioral data, transactional data and employment information, which may not effectively predict future loan losses. If we are unable to effectively segment borrowers into relative risk profiles, we may be unable to offer attractive interests rates for borrowers and risk-adjusted returns for investors. We continually refine these algorithms based on new data and changing macro and economic conditions. If any of these credit decisioning and scoring models contain programming or other errors, are ineffective or the data provided by borrowers or third parties is incorrect or stale, our loan pricing and approval process could be negatively affected, resulting in mispriced or misclassified loans or incorrect approvals or denials of loans. While we have not incurred any material liabilities to date, if these errors were to occur in the future, investors may try to rescind their affected investments or decide not to invest in loans in the future or borrowers may seek to revise the terms of their loans or reduce the use of our marketplace for loans. If loan default rates are in excess of the expected default rates, we may be unable to collect our entire servicing fee. Personal loans facilitated through our marketplace are not secured by any collateral, not guaranteed or insured by any third party and not backed by any governmental authority in any way. We are therefore limited in our ability to collect on the loans if a borrower is unwilling or unable to repay. A borrowers ability to repay us can be negatively impacted by increases in their payment obligations to other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other loans, including student loans and home equity lines of credit. These changes can result from increases in base lending 21 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION rates or structured increases in payment obligations and could reduce the ability of our borrowers to meet their payment obligations to other lenders and to us. If a borrower defaults on a loan, we typically outsource subsequent servicing efforts to third-party collection agencies, which may be unsuccessful in their efforts to collect the amount of the loan. Because our servicing fees depend on the collectability of the loans, if we experience an unexpected significant increase in the number of borrowers who fail to repay their loans or an increase in the principal amount of the loans that are not repaid, we will be unable to collect our entire servicing fee for such loans and our revenue could be adversely affected. A relatively small number of investors account for a large dollar amount of investment in loans funded through our marketplace. A relatively small number of investors account for a large dollar amount of investment in loans funded through our marketplace. Although we continue to believe there is sufficient investor demand to replace investors who may choose not to continue to invest through our marketplace, if we are unable to attract sufficient investor commitments or investors do not continue to participate in our marketplace at the current rates, we may be unable to increase our loan originations and our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline. In addition, if a large number of our existing investors ceased utilizing our marketplace over a short period of time, our business could be temporarily interrupted and we may decide to use our capital to support short-term marketplace equilibrium as new investors complete the administrative and diligence updating processes necessary to enable their investments. Our ability to protect the confidential information of our borrowers and investors may be adversely affected by cyber-attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar disruptions. The highly automated nature of our marketplace may make it an attractive target and potentially vulnerable to cyber attacks, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar disruptions. Our marketplace processes certain sensitive data from our borrowers and investors. While we have taken steps to protect confidential information that we have access to, our security measures could be breached. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to our marketplace could cause confidential borrower and investor information to be stolen and used for criminal purposes. Security breaches or unauthorized access to confidential information could also expose us to liability related to the loss of the information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and negative publicity. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, our relationships with borrowers and investors could be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, federal regulators and many federal and state laws and regulations require companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause borrowers and investors to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, we could lose borrowers, investors and ecosystem partners and our business and operations could be adversely affected. Any significant disruption in service on our platform or in our computer systems, including events beyond our control, could prevent us from processing or posting payments on loans, reduce the attractiveness of our marketplace and result in a loss of borrowers or investors. In the event of a platform outage and physical data loss, our ability to perform our servicing obligations, process applications or make loans available on our marketplace would be materially and adversely affected. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology and our underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, customer service, reputation and our ability to attract new and retain existing borrowers and investors. Our platform systems are mirrored between two third-party owned and operated facilities. Our 22 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION primary location is in Las Vegas, Nevada and is operated by Switch, Inc. Our secondary location is located in Santa Clara, California and is operated by CenturyLink. Our operations depend on both providers ability to protect its and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, air quality issues, environmental conditions, computer viruses or attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. If our arrangement with either provider is terminated or if there is a lapse of service or damage to their facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with our borrowers and investors and our reputation. Additionally, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Our disaster recovery plan has not been tested under actual disaster conditions, and we may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage. These factors could prevent us from processing or posting payments on the loans, damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause borrowers and investors to abandon our marketplace, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some aspects of our platform include open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Aspects of our platform include software covered by open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, GNU General Public License and the Apache License. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our platform. If portions of our proprietary software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and loan products. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with use of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could adversely affect our business. Any failure to protect our own intellectual property rights could impair our brand, or subject us to claims for alleged infringement by third parties, which could harm our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark and other rights, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our copyright, trade secret, trademark and other rights or applications for any of the foregoing. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing on such rights. We may, however, be unaware of the intellectual property rights that others may claim cover some or all of our technology or services. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. In addition, any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our loan products or operating our platform or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously adversely affect our brand and adversely impact our business. 23 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Our platform and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical, and if it contains undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected. Our platform and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical and complex. In addition, our platform and internal systems depend on the ability of such software to store, retrieve, process and manage immense amounts of data. The software on which we rely has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors or bugs. Some errors may only be discovered after the code has been released for external or internal use. Errors or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for borrowers and investors, delay introductions of new features or enhancements, result in errors or compromise our ability to protect borrower or investor data or our intellectual property. Any errors, bugs or defects discovered in the software on which we rely could result in harm to our reputation, loss of borrowers or investors, loss of revenue or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. The collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. There are federal, state and foreign laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous U.S. and international jurisdictions, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. This regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or foreign laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage our reputation, discourage potential borrowers or investors from using our marketplace or result in fines or proceedings brought against us, our issuing banks or other third parties by governmental agencies, borrowers, investors or other third parties, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to laws, regulations and other applicable common law rules regarding privacy and privacy advocacy, industry groups or other private parties may propose new and different privacy standards. We could also be subject to liability for the inappropriate use of information made available by us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws and privacy standards are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws or privacy standards may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and privacy standards, could result in additional cost and liability for us, damage our reputation, inhibit use of our marketplace and harm our business. As a rapidly growing company with a relatively limited operating history at our current scale, we face increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. We have a limited operating history at our current scale, and we have encountered and will continue to encounter risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties, including: navigating complex and evolving regulatory and competitive environments; increasing the number of borrowers and investors utilizing our marketplace; increasing the volume of loans facilitated through our marketplace and transaction fees received for matching borrowers and investors through our marketplace; entering into new markets and introducing new loan products; continuing to revise our marketplaces proprietary credit decisioning and scoring models, particularly in the face of changing macro and economic conditions; continuing to develop, maintain and scale our platform; 24 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION effectively using limited personnel and technology resources; effectively maintaining and scaling our financial and risk management