Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by the political environment and governmental fiscal and monetary policies. An unpredictable or volatile political environment in the United States, including any related social unrest, could negatively impact business and market conditions, economic growth, financial stability, and business, consumer, investor, and regulatory sentiments, any one or more of which in turn could cause our business and financial results to suffer. Our business and financial results are also significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States in pursuit of maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. The FRB and its policies influence the availability and demand for loans and deposits, the rates and other terms for loans and deposits, the conditions in equity, fixed-income, currency, and other markets, and the value of securities and other financial instruments. For example, in response to elevated inflation, the FRB increased interest rates eight times since early 2022, from a federal funds rate range of 0.00% to 0.25% in early 2022 to 5.25% to 5.50% as of December 2023, and has indicated a willingness to conduct rate increases as it deems necessary to combat inflation. Additionally, tax and other fiscal policies impact not only general economic and market conditions but also give rise to incentives or disincentives that affect how we and our customers prioritize objectives, deploy resources, and run households or operate businesses. Both the timing and the nature of any changes in monetary or fiscal policies, as well as their consequences for the economy and the markets in which we operate, are beyond our control and difficult to predict but could adversely affect our business and operating results. Negative publicity and unfavorable media coverage could negatively affect our business. Negative publicity about our industry or our company, including with respect to the quality and reliability of our marketplace bank, effectiveness of the credit decisioning or scoring models used in our marketplace bank platform, the effectiveness of our collection efforts, statements regarding investment returns, changes to our marketplace bank, our ability to grow our borrower and investor base at a rate expected by the market, our ability to effectively manage and resolve borrower and investor complaints, our ability to manage borrower and investor accounts in compliance with regulatory requirements which may not be clear, privacy and security practices, use of loan proceeds by certain borrowers of ours or other companies in our industry for illegal purposes, litigation, regulatory activity, and the experience of borrowers and investors with our marketplace bank, products or services, even if 34 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in, and the use of, our bank, products and services, which could harm our business and operating results. Harm to our reputation can arise from many sources, including employee misconduct, misconduct by our partners or partners of partners, other online marketplace banks, outsourced service providers or other counterparties, failure by us or our partners to meet minimum standards of service and quality, inadequate protection of borrower and investor information and compliance failures and claims. Our business operations may be adversely impacted by political events, terrorism, military conflict or acts of war, cyber-attacks, public health issues, natural disasters, severe weather, climate change, infrastructure failure or outages, labor disputes and other business interruptions. Our business operations are subject to interruption by, among other things, political events, terrorism, military conflict or acts of war (including the conflicts in Ukraine and the Gaza Strip), cyber-attacks, public health issues (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), natural disasters, severe weather, climate change (including longer-term shifts in climate patterns, such as extreme heat, sea level rise and more frequent and prolonged drought), infrastructure failure or outages (including power outages), labor disputes and other events which could: (i) decrease demand for our products and services, (ii) adversely affect the macroeconomy and/or our customers, or (iii) make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver a satisfactory experience to our customers. Any such events could also affect the Company by impacting the stability of our deposit base, impairing the ability of our borrowers to repay their outstanding loans, causing significant property damage or otherwise impair the value of collateral securing our loans, and/or resulting in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. While we may undertake measures indicated to mitigate the adverse impacts of such events, there are no assurances that any of the measures we take will be sufficient or successful. Furthermore, in the event of any disruption to our operations or those of the companies with whom we do business with, we could experience delays in product development, marketing, operations and customer service efforts, incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures in order to resume or maintain operations, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Ukrainian-Russian conflict, the responses thereto (such as sanctions imposed by the United States and other countries) and any expansion thereof have had, and may continue to have, unpredictable and/or adverse effects on the domestic and global economy and financial markets. Although we have not yet experienced any material direct impact from the Ukrainian-Russian conflict, in part because our business is conducted exclusively in the United States, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be impacted if the conflict prolongs and/or its impact exacerbates. Further, the geopolitical conflicts such as the Ukrainian-Russian conflict and the conflict in the Gaza Strip, and their impacts, have had, and may continue to have, the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Annual Report, such as escalating inflation, elevating the possibility of a decline in economic conditions and increasing cybersecurity risk. RISKS RELATED TO CREDIT AND COLLECTIONS If the credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting and scoring models we use contain errors, do not adequately assess risk, or are otherwise ineffective, our reputation and relationships with customers could be harmed, our market share could decline and the value of loans held on our balance sheet may be adversely affected. Our ability to attract customers to, and build trust in, our marketplace bank platform is significantly dependent on our ability to effectively evaluate a borrowers credit profile and likelihood of default. To conduct this evaluation, we utilize credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting and scoring models that assign each loan offered through our marketplace bank platform a grade and a corresponding interest rate. Our models are based on algorithms that evaluate a number of factors, including behavioral data, transactional data, bank data and employment information, which may not effectively predict future loan losses. If we are unable to effectively segment borrowers into relative risk profiles, we may be unable to offer attractive interest rates for borrowers and risk-adjusted returns for marketplace investors. 35 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Additionally, if these models fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, we may experience higher than forecasted losses. Furthermore, as stated above, we hold loans on our balance sheet. We periodically assess the value of these loans and in doing so we review and incorporate a number of factors including forecasted losses. Accordingly, if we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of borrowers such that we experience higher than forecasted losses, the value of the loans held on our balance sheet may be adversely affected. We continually refine these algorithms based on new data and changing macroeconomic conditions. However, there is no guarantee that the credit decisioning, pricing, loss forecasting and scoring models that we use have accurately assessed the creditworthiness of our borrowers, or will be effective in assessing creditworthiness in the future. Similarly, if any of these models contain programming or other errors, are ineffective or the data provided by borrowers or third parties is incorrect or stale, our loan pricing and approval process could be negatively affected, resulting in mispriced or misclassified loans or incorrect approvals or denials of loans. If these errors were to occur, we may be obligated to repurchase the affected loans, marketplace investors may try to rescind their affected purchases or investments or decide not to purchase or invest in loans in the future or borrowers may seek to revise the terms of their loans or reduce the use of our marketplace bank platform for loans. Additionally, we have entered, and may continue to enter, into credit support agreements where we may be obligated to make payments to certain marketplace investors if the losses on their loan portfolios exceed certain agreed-upon thresholds. If we are unable to accurately predict and manage losses, credit losses may exceed these agreed-upon thresholds and we may be obligated to make payments to these marketplace investors, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Further, the use of these models, algorithms and artificial intelligence for determining loan grades and corresponding interest rates may also heighten the risk of legal or regulatory scrutiny. We may be required to alter our models for compliance purposes, which could impact the interest rates offered to borrowers, the risk-adjusted returns offered to investors, result in higher losses or otherwise impact our results of operations. If collection efforts on loans are ineffective or unsuccessful, the return on investment for investors in those loans would be adversely affected and investors may not find investing through our marketplace bank platform desirable. Many of our loan products, including all of our personal loans, are unsecured obligations of borrowers, and they are not secured by any collateral. None of the loans facilitated on our platform are guaranteed or insured by any third party or backed by any governmental authority in any way. We are the loan servicer for all loans supporting notes and certificates and we are the loan servicer for most, though not all, loans sold as whole loans. The ability to collect on the loans is dependent on the borrowers continuing financial stability and willingness to make loan payments, and consequently, collections can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including job loss, divorce, death, illness, bankruptcy or the economic and/or social factors referenced above in the risk factor A decline in social and economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, which may negatively impact our business and results of operations.Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. Accordingly, we and our designated third-party servicers and collection agencies are limited in our ability to collect loans. In addition, most marketplace investors depend on us or our third-party servicers and collection agents to pursue collection on delinquent borrower loans. Collections are remitted to marketplace investors only to the extent we receive borrower payments on the corresponding loans. If we, or third parties on our behalf, cannot adequately perform collection services on the loans, the marketplace investor will not be entitled to any remittances under the terms of the investment. Further, if collection action must be taken in respect of a loan, we or the collection agency may charge a collection fee on any amounts that are obtained (excluding litigation). These fees will correspondingly reduce the amounts of any payments received by an investor. Similarly, the returns to investors may be impacted by declines in market rates for sales of charged-off loans to third-party purchasers. Ultimately, if delinquencies impair 36 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION our ability to offer competitive risk-adjusted returns for marketplace investors, they may seek alternative investments and our business may suffer. In addition, if we experience a significant increase in the number of charged-off loans we will be unable to collect our servicing fee for such loans and our revenue could be adversely affected. Further, we use internet-based processes to obtain application information and distribute certain legally required notices to applicants and borrowers of our loans and to obtain electronically signed loan documents. These processes may result in greater risks than paper-based loan originations, including risks regarding the sufficiency of notice for consumer protection laws, risks that borrowers may challenge the authenticity of loan documents or the validity of the borrowers electronic signature on loan documents and risks that unauthorized changes are made to electronic loan documents. Any of these factors could cause our loans or certain terms of our loans to be unenforceable against a borrower or impair our ability to service the loans, which could adversely affect the value of our loans and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit and other information that we receive from borrowers or third parties about a borrower may be inaccurate or may not accurately reflect the borrowers creditworthiness, which may cause us to inaccurately price loans made through our marketplace bank platform. Our ability to review and select qualified borrowers depends on obtaining borrower credit information from consumer reporting agencies, such as TransUnion, Experian or Equifax, and other third parties. We assign loan grades to loan requests based on our credit decisioning and scoring models that take into account reported credit score, other information reported by the consumer reporting agencies and the requested loan amount, in addition to a variety of other factors. A credit score or loan grade assigned to a borrower may not reflect that borrowers actual creditworthiness because the credit score or loan grade may be based on outdated, incomplete or inaccurate data, including consumer reporting data, and we do not verify the information obtained from a borrowers credit report. Additionally, there is a risk that, following the date of the credit report or other third-party data that we obtain and review, a borrower may have: become delinquent in the payment of an outstanding obligation; defaulted on a pre-existing debt obligation; taken on additional debt; or sustained other adverse financial events. In addition, borrowers supply a variety of information, including information that is included in the loan listings on our marketplace bank platform, and this information may be inaccurate or incomplete. To verify a borrowers identity, income or employment, our verification process and teams connect to various data sources, directly or through third-party service providers, contact the human resources department of the borrowers stated employer, or request pay stubs. However, we often do not verify a borrowers stated income, tenure, job title, home ownership status or intention for the use of loan proceeds. The factors above may result in loans being issued to otherwise non-qualified borrowers and/or impact our ability to effectively segment borrowers into relative risk profiles, each of which may impair our ability to offer competitive risk-adjusted returns for investors, which may cause investors to seek alternative investments from ours and our business may suffer. Additionally, if borrowers default on loans that are not priced correctly because the information provided by the borrowers or third parties is inaccurate, investors may try to rescind their affected investments in these loans or the loans may not perform as expected and our reputation may be harmed. 37 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Substantial and increasing competition in our industry may harm our business. The financial services and banking industry is increasingly competitive. We compete with financial products and companies that attract borrowers, investors or both, as described in Item 1. Business Competition. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and may have access to less expensive capital than we do, and may offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower operating or financing costs, or have different profitability expectations than us. Certain competitors may be able to offer lower rates to borrowers than we are able to offer and/or structure their products in a manner that is more attractive to potential customers. Additionally, some of our competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing and other regulatory requirements. If we do not offer, price and develop attractive products and services for our customers, we may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors and our business and results of operations may be materially harmed. Additionally, competition may drive us to take actions that we might otherwise avoid, such as lowering interest rates or fees on loans or raising interest rates on deposits, and that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when our collateral cannot be foreclosed upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due. Any such losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, events or perceptions with respect liquidity, defaults and other markers of stability, performance and/or strength within the financial services industry have, and may in the future, lead to market-wide liquidity concerns, erosion of confidence in the banking system, the closure of financial services institutions and other adverse consequences. For example, in 2023, Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank, and First Republic Bank each failed shortly after substantial reductions in their deposit bases over the course of a few days/weeks. Any such events of perceptions may make our members reluctant to use our products and services or could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO PERSONNEL AND THIRD PARTIES If we fail to attract and retain our highly skilled employees needed to support our business, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. We believe our success depends on the efforts and talents of our employees, including software engineers, financial, banking, credit and risk personnel, and marketing professionals. Our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. Competition for highly skilled technical and financial personnel, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, is extremely intense. Building and maintaining a positive culture and work environment that reinforces our values is also critical to attracting and retaining employees. We have previously experienced a high attrition rate from employees and while attrition rates have materially reduced recently, they may again become elevated. We periodically make adjustments to our compensation levels and structures as our business and the competitive market for talent evolves. Further, many of the companies with 38 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. While we strive to create a fulfilling workplace with competitive compensation, certain existing and prospective employees may find our workplace and/or compensation levels and structures to be unattractive, which may adversely impact our business by compromising our ability to retain and recruit an appropriately skilled workforce. Additionally, changes in U.S. immigration policy may make it difficult to renew or obtain visas for certain highly skilled employees that we have hired or are recruiting. In addition to attracting and retaining highly skilled employees in general, our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including our executive officers, senior management team and other key personnel, all of whom would be difficult to replace. In 2023, our total headcount decreased by 560 employees compared to the prior year, primarily due to the workforce reduction plans we implemented during the year. These reductions in workforce resulted in the termination of a number of highly contributing employees as well as material reductions in the size and capabilities of a number of our functions, such as recruiting. Further, the reductions in workforce may negatively impact employee morale and our culture, which may increase attrition rates and negatively impact future recruiting efforts. The loss of the services of our executive officers, members of our senior management team or key employees and functions, and the process to replace and/or rebuild any of them, involve significant time and expense and distraction that may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives or impair our operations or results. Misconduct and errors by our employees, contractors and third-party service providers could harm our business and reputation. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of misconduct and errors by our employees and other third-party service providers. Our business depends on our employees, contractors and third-party service providers to facilitate the operation of our business and process a large number of increasingly complex transactions, and if any of our employees, contractors or third-party service providers provide unsatisfactory service or take, convert or misuse funds, documents or data (including customer and/or internal documents or data), make an error, or fail to follow protocol when interacting with customers, we could lose customers, harm our reputation, be liable for damages, be subject to repurchase obligations and be subject to complaints, regulatory actions and penalties. While we have internal procedures and oversight functions to protect us against these risks, we could also be perceived to have facilitated or participated in the illegal misappropriation of funds, documents or data, or the failure to follow protocol, and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability. Additionally, our use of third-party vendors is subject to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements and attention by our regulators. Regulations require us to perform due diligence of, perform ongoing monitoring of and exercise certain controls over our third-party vendors and other ongoing third-party business relationships. We expect that our regulators will hold us responsible for deficiencies in our oversight and control of our third-party relationships and in the performance of the parties with which we have these relationships. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to customers, inability to attract future customers, reputational damage, regulatory intervention, enforcement action and financial harm, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. In order to grow our business and effectuate our business strategy, we anticipate that we will depend in part on our ability to develop and expand our strategic relationship with third parties to offer additional products and services on our platform. 39 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Identifying suitable partners, and negotiating and documenting relationships with them, requires significant time and resources. In some cases, we also compete directly with our partners product offerings, and if these partners cease their strategic relationship with us it could result in fewer product and service offerings on our platform, which may impede our ability to execute on our business strategy. Further, if we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, or realizing the anticipated benefits from such partnerships, our ability to compete and to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results may suffer. A disruption or failure in services provided by third parties could materially and adversely affect our business. We increasingly rely on third parties to provide and/or assist with certain critical aspects of our business, including: (i) customer support, (ii) collections, (iii) loan origination, (iv) data verification and (v) cloud computing. These third parties may be subject to cybersecurity incidents, privacy breaches, service disruptions and/or financial, legal, regulatory, labor or operational issues; any of which may result in the third party providing inadequate service levels to us or our customers. In addition, these third parties may breach their agreements with us and/or refuse to continue or renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms. If any third party provides inadequate service levels or fails to provide services at all, we may face business disruptions, customer dissatisfaction, reputational damage and/or financial and legal exposure; any of which may harm our business. Our