Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of our revenue streams prior to the acquisition of Radius. Competition The financial services industry is highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative and subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. We compete with financial services providers such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, investment banks and mutual fund companies. We also face increased competition from non-bank institutions such as online and marketplace lending companies, as well as from financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Substantial and increasing competition in our industry may harm our business for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business. Regulation and Supervision General The U.S. financial services and banking industry is highly regulated. The bank regulatory regime is intended primarily for the protection of customers, the public, the financial system and the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), rather than our shareholders or creditors. 6 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION The legal and regulatory regime affects virtually all aspects of our operations. Statutes, regulations and policies govern, among other things, the scope of activities that we may conduct and the manner in which we may conduct them; our business plan and growth; our board, management, and risk management infrastructure; the type, terms, and pricing of our products and services; our loan and investment portfolio; our capital and liquidity levels; our reserves against deposits; our ability to pay dividends, buy-back stock or distribute capital; and our ability to engage in mergers, acquisitions and other strategic initiatives. The legal and regulatory regime is continually under review by legislatures, regulators and other governmental bodies, and changes regularly occur through the enactment or amendment of laws and regulations or through shifts in policy, implementation or enforcement. Changes are difficult to predict and could have significant effects on our business. The material regulatory requirements that are applicable to us and our subsidiaries are summarized below. The description below, as well as other descriptions of laws and regulations in this Report, is not intended to summarize all laws and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries, and is based upon the statutes, regulations, policies, interpretive letters and other written guidance that are in effect as of the date of this Report. Regulatory Framework We are subject to regulation and supervision by multiple regulatory bodies. As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHCA) and is subject to ongoing and comprehensive supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB). The FRBs jurisdiction also extends to any company that is directly or indirectly controlled by a bank holding company. As a national bank, the Bank is subject to ongoing and comprehensive supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). The OCC charges fees to national banks, including the Bank, in connection with its supervisory activities. The Banks deposits are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the FDIC up to applicable legal limits. As an FDIC-insured depository institution, the Bank is subject under certain circumstances to supervision, regulation and examination by the FDIC. The FDIC charges deposit insurance assessments to FDIC-insured institutions, including the Bank, to fund and support the DIF. The rate of these deposit insurance assessments is based on, among other things, the risk characteristics of the Bank. The FDIC has the power to terminate the Banks deposit insurance if it determines the Bank is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices. Federal banking laws provide for the appointment of the FDIC as receiver in the event the Bank were to fail, such as in connection with undercapitalization, insolvency, unsafe or unsound condition or other financial distress. In a receivership, the claims of the Banks depositors (and those of the FDIC as subrogee of the Bank) would have priority over other general unsecured claims against the Bank. The Company is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. The Companys common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the trading symbol LC and therefore the Company is also subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies. Broad Powers to Ensure Safety and Soundness A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory system is to ensure the safety and soundness of banking organizations. Safety and soundness is a broad concept that includes financial, operational, compliance, and reputational considerations, including matters such as capital, asset quality, quality of board and management oversight, earnings, liquidity, and sensitivity to market and interest rate risk. As part of its commitment to maintain safety and soundness, at the time the Company acquired the Bank, the Bank entered into an Operating Agreement with the OCC (the Operating Agreement). The Operating Agreement sets forth key parameters within which the 7 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Bank must operate, such as with respect to its business plan, minimum capital, directors and senior executive officers, risk management and compliance. The banking and financial regulators have broad examination and enforcement authority. The regulators require banking organizations to file detailed periodic reports and regularly examine the operations of banking organizations. Banking organizations that do not meet the regulators supervisory expectations can be subjected to increased scrutiny and supervisory criticism. The regulators have various remedies available, which may be public or of a confidential supervisory nature, if they determine that an institutions condition, management, operations or risk profile is unsatisfactory. The regulators may also take action if they determine that the banking organization or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation. The regulators have the power to, among other things: require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice; issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced; direct increases in capital; direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets; limit dividends and distributions; restrict growth and activities; assess civil monetary penalties; remove officers and directors; and terminate deposit insurance. Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject us and our subsidiaries or their officers, directors and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above and other sanctions. Limits on Activities and Approval Requirements The BHCA generally restricts the Companys ability, directly or indirectly, to engage in, or acquire more than 5% of any class of voting securities of a company engaged in, activities other than those determined by the FRB to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the scope of permissible activities to include those that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial activity for a bank holding company that elects to be a financial holding company, which requires the satisfaction of certain conditions. We have not elected financial holding company status. The bank regulatory regime, including through the Operating Agreement, requires that we obtain prior approval of one or more regulators for various initiatives or corporate actions, including acquisitions or minority investments, the establishment of branches, certain changes to our board or senior management, certain dividends or capital distributions, and significant deviations from the Banks previously approved business plan. Regulators take into account a range of factors in determining whether to grant a requested approval, including the supervisory status of the applicant and its affiliates. Thus, there is no guarantee that a particular proposal by us would receive the required regulatory approvals. The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) requires federal banking regulators, in their review of certain applications by banking organizations, to take into account the applicants record in helping meet the credit needs of its community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The Bank is subject to periodic examination under the CRA by the OCC, which will assign ratings based on the methodologies set forth in its regulations and guidance. Less favorable CRA ratings, or concerns raised under the CRA, may adversely affect the Banks ability to obtain approval for certain types of applications. 8 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Company as Source of Strength for the Bank Federal law and FRB policy require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for any FDIC-insured depository institution that it controls. Thus, if the Bank were to be in financial distress or to otherwise be viewed by the regulators as in an unsatisfactory condition, then the regulators could require the Company to provide additional capital or liquidity support, or take other action, in support of the Bank, even if doing so is not otherwise in the best interest of the Company. Regulatory Capital Requirements and Prompt Corrective Action The banking regulators view capital levels as important indicators of an institutions financial soundness. As a general matter, FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies are required to maintain a specified level of capital relative to the amount and types of assets they hold. While capital can serve as an important cushion against losses, higher capital requirements can also adversely affect an institutions ability to grow and/or increase leverage through deposit-gathering or other sources of funding. The Company and the Bank are each subject to generally similar capital requirements adopted by the FRB and the OCC, respectively. These requirements establish required minimum ratios for common equity Tier 1 (CET1) risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and a Tier 1 leverage ratio; set risk-weighting for assets and certain other items for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios; require an additional capital conservation buffer over the minimum required capital ratios in order to avoid certain limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses; and define what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting the capital requirements. Specifically, the capital thresholds in order to be regarded as a well-capitalized institution under the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision standardized approach for U.S. banking organizations are as follows: a CET1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0%, a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5.0%. The regulators assess any particular institutions capital adequacy based on numerous factors and may require a particular banking organization to maintain capital at levels higher than the generally applicable minimums. In this regard, and unless otherwise directed by the OCC, we have made commitments for the Bank to maintain a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 11%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio above 11%, a total risk-based capital ratio above 13% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 11% for a minimum of three years following its formation. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act provides for a system of prompt corrective action (PCA). The PCA regime provides for capitalization categories ranging from well-capitalized to critically undercapitalized. An institutions PCA category is determined primarily by its regulatory capital ratios. The PCA requires remedial actions and imposes limitations that become increasingly stringent as an institutions condition deteriorates and its PCA capitalization category declines. Among other things, institutions that are less than well-capitalized become subject to increasingly stringent restrictions on their ability to accept and/or rollover brokered deposits. In addition to capital requirements, depository institutions are required to maintain non-interest bearing reserves at specified levels against their transaction accounts and certain non-personal time deposits. Regulatory Limits on Dividends and Distributions The ability of the Company or the Bank to pay dividends, buy back stock and make other capital distributions is limited by regulatory capital rules and other aspects of the regulatory regime. For example, a policy statement of the FRB provides that, among other things, a bank holding company generally should not pay dividends if its net income for the past year is not sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the companys capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Dividends and capital distributions by the Bank are also limited by the regulatory regimes. For example, the Operating Agreement requires the Bank to obtain a prior written determination of non-objection from the OCC 9 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION before declaring any dividend. Taking into account a wide range of factors, the OCC may object and therefore prevent the Bank from paying dividends to the Company. Other laws and regulations generally applicable to national banks also limit the amount of dividends and capital distributions that may be made by a national bank and/or require prior approval of the OCC. Because substantially all of our business activities, income and cash flow are expected to be generated by the Bank, an inability of the Bank to pay dividends or distribute capital to the Company would adversely affect the Companys liquidity. Consumer Protection We are subject to a broad array of federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern almost every aspect of our business relationships with consumers. These laws relate to, among other things, the content and adequacy of disclosures, pricing and fees, fair lending, anti-discrimination, privacy, cybersecurity, usury, mortgages and housing finance, lending to service members, escheatment, debt collection, loan servicing, collateral secured lending, and unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is generally responsible for rulemaking with respect to certain federal laws related to the provision of financial products and services to consumers. In addition, the CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to federal consumer financial protection laws with respect to banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more. The Bank has assets less than $10 billion; therefore, we are not currently subject to the examination and primary enforcement jurisdiction of the CFPB. However, many consumer protection rules adopted or amended by the CFPB do apply to us and are the subject of examination and enforcement with respect to us by the FRB and OCC. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may be subject to significant penalties, judgments, other monetary or injunctive remedies, lawsuits (including putative class action lawsuits and actions by state and local attorneys general or other officials), customer rescission rights, supervisory or enforcement actions, and civil or criminal liability. Anti-Money Laundering, Sanctions and Financial Crime We are subject to a wide range of laws related to anti-money laundering (AML), economic sanctions and prevention of financial crime, including the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act and economic sanctions programs. We are required to, among other things, maintain an effective anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist compliance program, identify and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports, and block transactions with sanctioned persons or jurisdictions. Compliance with these laws requires significant investment of management attention and resources. These laws are enforced by a number of regulatory authorities, including the FRB, OCC, Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. Failure to comply with these laws, or to meet our regulators supervisory expectations in connection with these laws, could subject us to supervisory or enforcement action, significant financial penalties, criminal liability and/or reputational harm. Third-Party Relationship Risk Management We utilize third-party service providers to perform a wide range of operations and other functions, which may present various risks. Our regulators will expect us to maintain an effective program for managing risk arising from third-party relationships, which should be commensurate with the level of risk and complexity of our business and our third-party relationships. If not managed effectively, the use of third-party service providers may expose us to risks that could result in regulatory action, financial loss, litigation, and reputational harm. Privacy, Information Technology and Cybersecurity We are subject to various laws related to the privacy of consumer information. For example, the Company and its subsidiaries are required under federal law periodically to disclose to their retail clients the Companys policies and 10 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION practices with respect to the sharing of nonpublic client information with their affiliates and others, and the confidentiality and security of that information. In some cases, the Bank must obtain a consumers consent before sharing information with an unaffiliated third party, and the Bank must allow a consumer to opt out of the Banks sharing of information with its affiliates for marketing and certain other purposes. We are also subject to laws and regulatory requirements related to information technology and cybersecurity. For example, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), which is a council comprised of the primary federal banking regulators, has issued guidance and supervisory expectations for banking organizations with respect to information technology and cybersecurity. Our regulators regularly examine us for compliance with applicable laws, and adherence to industry best practices, with respect to these topics. For example, they will evaluate our security of user and customer credentials, business continuity planning, and the ability to identify and thwart cyber-attacks. State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act became effective on January 1, 2020. We expect this trend of state-level activity in those areas to continue, and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which our clients are located. Limitations on Transactions with Affiliates and Loans to Insiders Banks are subject to restrictions on their ability to conduct transactions with affiliates and other related parties under federal banking laws. For example, federal banking laws impose quantitative limits, qualitative requirements, and collateral standards on certain extensions of credit and other transactions by an insured depository institution with, or for the benefit of, its affiliates. In addition, most types of transactions by an insured depository institution with, or for the benefit of, an affiliate be on terms substantially the same or at least as favorable to the insured depository institution as if the transaction were conducted with an unaffiliated third party. Federal banking laws also impose restrictions and procedural requirements in connection with the extension of credit by an insured depository institution to directors, executive officers, principal shareholders (including the Company) and their related interests. In addition, purchases and sales of assets between an insured depository institution and its executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders may also be limited under such laws. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally prohibits loans by public companies to their executive officers and directors. However, there is a specific exception for loans by financial institutions, such as the Bank, to its executive officers and directors that are made in compliance with federal banking laws. Acquisition of a Significant Interest in the Company Banking laws impose various regulatory requirements on parties that may seek to acquire a significant interest in the Company. For example, the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 would generally require that any party file a formal notice with, and obtain non-objection of, the FRB prior to acquiring (directly or indirectly, whether alone or acting in concert with any other party) 10% or more of any class of voting securities of the Company. Further approval requirements and significant ongoing regulatory consequences would apply to any company that (directly or indirectly, whether alone or as part of an association with another company) seeks to acquire control of the Company or the Bank for purposes of the BHCA. The determination whether a party controls a depository institution or its holding company for purposes of these laws is based on applicable regulations and all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment. Certain Regulatory Developments Relating to the COVID-19 Pandemic CARES Act On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was passed by Congress and signed into law by the President. Below is a brief overview of some of the provisions of the CARES Act and other regulations and supervisory guidance related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are applicable to the operations and activities of the Company and the Bank. 11 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). A principal provision of the CARES Act amended the Small Business Administrations (SBA) loan program to create a guaranteed, unsecured loan program, the PPP, to fund operational costs of eligible businesses, organizations, and self-employed persons during the COVID-19 pandemic. On June 5, 2020, the Paycheck Protection Program Flexibility Act (PPPFA) was signed into law, which among other things, gave borrowers additional time and flexibility to use PPP loan proceeds. Shortly thereafter, and due to the evolving impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, additional legislation authorizing the SBA to resume accepting PPP applications on July 6, 2020 and extending the PPP application deadline to August 8, 2020 was signed. It is anticipated that additional revisions to the SBAs interim final rules on forgiveness and loan review procedures will be forthcoming to address these and related changes. As a participating lender in the PPP, the Bank continues to monitor legislative, regulatory, and supervisory developments related thereto. Temporary Regulatory Capital Relief related to Impact of Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL). Concurrent with enactment of the CARES Act, federal bank regulatory authorities issued an interim final rule that delays the estimated impact on regulatory capital resulting from the adoption of CECL. The interim final rule provides banking organizations that implement CECL before the end of 2020 the option to delay for two years the estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital relative to regulatory capital determined under the prior incurred loss methodology, followed by a three-year transition period to phase out the aggregate amount of capital benefit provided during the initial two-year delay. Effect on Economic Environment The policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policy of the FRB, have a significant effect on the operating results of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Among the means available to the FRB to affect the money supply are open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate on borrowings and changes in reserve requirements with respect to deposits. These means are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits, and their use may affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits. The FRB monetary policies have materially affected the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. We cannot predict the nature of future monetary policies and the effect of such policies on its business and earnings. Issuing Bank Model As disclosed above, prior to acquiring Radius and establishing the Bank, our issuing bank for unsecured personal and auto loans was WebBank, a Utah-chartered industrial bank. Our issuing banks for education and patient finance loans will remain NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank, which originate and service such loans. NBT Bank is subject to oversight by the OCC and Comenity Capital Bank is subject to oversight by the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. These authorities impose obligations and restrictions on our activities and the loans facilitated through our lending marketplace through issuing banks, and there has been challenges to the ability of an FDIC-insured depository institution to "export" interest rates permitted by the laws of the state where the bank is located, regardless of the usury limitations imposed by the laws of the state of the borrowers residence. The Second Circuits 2015 decision in Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC has led to an increase in inquiries, regulatory proceedings and litigation challenging or raising issues relating to the application of state usury restrictions and limitations and lending arrangements where a bank or other third party has made a loan and then sells and assigns it. In May 2020, the OCC issued a rule clarifying that interest on a loan that is lawful under federal law for national banks and federal savings associations remains lawful upon the sale, assignment or other transfer of the loan. The FDIC issued a similar rule in June 2020 applicable to FDIC insured state-chartered banks. Additionally, in October 2020, the OCC issued a rule clarifying that when a national bank or federal savings association makes a loan it is the true lender in the context of a partnership between the bank and a third party if, as of the date of origination, it is named as the lender in the loan agreement or funds the loan. It is unclear what impact the position of the OCC or FDIC, or the rules they have promulgated, will have on existing or future litigation or regulatory proceedings involving arguments of federal preemption of state usury laws. 12 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION For more information on how the regulatory environment, enforcement actions, findings and ratings could also have an impact on our strategies, the value of our assets, or otherwise adversely affect our business see Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Regulation, Supervision and Compliance. Intellectual Property To establish and protect our technology and intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other rights, as well as confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. We are not dependent on any one patent or related group of patents or any other single right to use intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, third parties may, in an authorized or unauthorized manner, attempt to use, copy or otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property rights or technology or otherwise develop a product with the same functionality as our solution. In addition, our competitors may develop products that are similar to our technology. Policing all unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is nearly impossible, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken or will take in the future will prevent misappropriations of our technology or intellectual property rights. Human Capital The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries had 1,030 employees and contract employees as of December 31, 2020, all of whom were located in the United States. Our workforce is reduced from 1,538 employees and contract employees as of December 31, 2019, with much of the reduction coming from a restructuring plan in April 2020 to address the impact of COVID-19 on the Companys business by repositioning the Companys expense base to better reflect the reduction in loan volume and better position the Company for profitability and achieving its strategic goals. The restructuring plan included workforce reductions affecting approximately 460 employees. More recently, on February 1, 2021, we added 195 employees through our acquisition of Radius. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to recruit, develop, motivate and retain employees with the skills to execute our long-term strategy. We compete in a competitive market for talent and aim to distinguish ourselves by offering our employees the opportunity to make a meaningful positive impact on the finances of Americans in an innovative technology oriented environment, while offering competitive compensation and benefits. Our compensation programs consist primarily of base salary, corporate bonus and equity awards. We periodically conduct pay equity surveys to ensure our compensation programs are applied equitably across our workforce. Our benefits programs consist of comprehensive health, dental and welfare benefits, including a 401(k) matching program and online mental health tools. In connection with our COVID-19 restructuring plan, we temporarily reduced the base salaries of many of our employees (including our entire executive team). This reduction in base salaries was reverted on January 1, 2021, as our business stabilized and began to recover. We are committed to advancing a safe work environment for our employees. We adhere, and expect all of our employees to adhere, to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which, among other things, sets forth numerous policies designed to provide for a safe, ethical, respectful and compliant work environment. During the COVID-19 pandemic, our commitment to our employees has been put into action. One of the principles that has guided and continues to guide our decision-making during the COVID-19 pandemic is keeping our employees safe. With that principle in mind, in March 2020, we rapidly and effectively implemented a work from home program and nearly our entire workforce continues to work exclusively from home. We have continued to keep our physical offices closed as we monitor national and local conditions and guidelines. Diversity and inclusion are core to our corporate culture and we continue to make efforts and strides to improve the diversity of talent within the financial services industry. We treat diversity and inclusion as an important consideration when making hiring decisions and appointments to our Board of Directors. We offer anti-racism, inclusive hiring and breaking bias trainings. Further, we have a program specifically designed to provide female employees leadership tools and opportunities and development program for under-represented individuals that 13 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION focuses on both professional and personal growth. We continue to undertake measures to enhance our efforts with respect to diversity and inclusion. As of December 31, 2020, our workforce was 42% female and 49% non-white. Available Information Our website address is www.lendingclub.com. At our investor relations website, ir.lendingclub.com, we make available free of charge the following information and capabilities: Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC; Press releases, including with respect to our quarterly earnings; Announcements of public conference calls and webcasts; Corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, business conduct and ethics policy, and other governance-related policies; Other news and market data that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and Opportunity to sign up for email notifications. In addition to announcing material financial information through our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts, we also intend to use other online and social media channels, including our Blog ( http://blog.lendingclub.com) , Twitter handles (@LendingClub and @LendingClubIR) and Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/LendingClubTeam) to disclose material non-public information and to comply with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing or in any other report or document on file with the SEC. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 14 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Report), including the section titled Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. While we believe the risks and uncertainties described below include all material risks currently known by us, it is possible that these may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risk Factors Summary Our business is subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are discussed more fully below and include, but are not limited to: Risks Related to Regulation, Supervision and Compliance operating within the bank regulatory regime and to the satisfaction of the banking regulators; our compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including foreign laws); the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses; operating within capital and liquidity regulations and requirements; the impact of any changes to the legal and regulatory regime; our participation in the Federal Paycheck Protection Program; and the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management framework. Risks Related to Operating Our Business M&A activity, including our recent acquisition of Radius Bancorp; the impact of litigation and regulatory investigations; holding loans on our balance sheet and associated credit, liquidity and interest rate risk; our ability to develop and commercialize products and services; maintaining our deposit base; maintaining adequate liquidity; offering a breadth and volume of investment opportunities for platform investors; managing and the impact of fraudulent activity; forecasting demand for loans; maintaining and increasing loan originations; the ability of platform investors to exert influence over us; disruptions to the technology that powers our marketplace; maintaining, protecting and promoting our brand; our use of the issuing bank partnership model; breaches of certain representations and warranties made to others; and our ability to manage indebtedness. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions or Other External Factors the impact of COVID-19 and our ability to navigate the current economic environment; fluctuations in interest rates; the political environment and fiscal/monetary policies; a decline in overall social and economic conditions; the impact of natural disasters, infrastructure failures and other business interruptions; and negative publicity and media coverage. 15 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Risks Related to Credit and Collections the accuracy and effectiveness of our credit decisioning models; and the effectiveness of our collections efforts. Risks Related to Our Industry our ability to compete; and the soundness of other financial institutions. Risks Related to Personnel and Third-Parties attracting and retaining employees; the impact of any misconduct or errors; and our reliance on and relationship with third-parties. Risks Related to Data, Intellectual Property and Privacy security incidents, failures and bugs in our systems; the impact of cyber-attacks suffered by third parties; the collection, storage and use of personal data; protecting our intellectual property rights; and our use of open source software. Risks Related to Tax and Accounting our ability to use our deferred tax asset; and our net loss position. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock the volatility of our stock price and fluctuations in quarterly results; future equity dilution; our anti-takeover provisions and restrictions in accumulating a position in the Company; the availability and content of research and reports by analysis; and our intention to not pay dividends in the foreseeable future. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE We operate in a highly regulated environment that affects virtually all aspects of our operations, and the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory expectations can materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legal requirements that affect virtually all aspects of our operations. The regulatory regime governing banking organizations is generally intended to protect customers, depositors, the DIF, and the overall financial stability of the United States, not our shareholders or creditors. See Item 1. Business Regulation and Supervision for information on the regulation and supervision framework which governs our Company and its activities. 16 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION We are regularly examined and inspected by our regulators, including the FRB and OCC. Our regulators have extensive authority and discretion in their interpretation, implementation, supervision and enforcement of the regulatory regime, including on matters related to: dividends or capital distributions by the Bank or the Company; capital and liquidity requirements applicable to us, including the imposition of requirements more stringent than those required under generally applicable laws; the types and terms of products we offer, activities we may conduct or investments we may make; the composition, risk characteristics, potential adverse classification, allowance and risk reserves in connection with our loans or other assets; our deposit-gathering and other funding sources; the quality of our board and management oversight; the effectiveness of our risk management and compliance programs, including with respect to consumer protection, information technology, cybersecurity, third-party risk management, anti-money laundering and sanctions; the Bank's commitment to helping meet the credit needs of low- and moderate-income neighborhoods under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1967; their willingness to approve applications, such as for changes in our business plan, the establishment of new branches, the commencement of new activities, or the conduct of mergers and acquisitions; and our rate of growth and other expansionary or strategic initiatives. The Company became a bank holding company on February 1, 2021, with its acquisition of the Bank, and therefore has only recently become subject to the bank regulatory regime. We must devote substantial time and resources to compliance and meeting our regulators' supervisory expectations, which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably or to pursue advantageous business opportunities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or commitments, or to satisfy our regulators' supervisory expectations, could subject us to, among other things, supervisory or enforcement action, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or commitments, if we are deemed to have engaged in unsafe or unsound conduct, or if we do not satisfy our regulators' supervisory expectations, then we may be subject to increased scrutiny, supervisory criticism, governmental or private litigation and/or a wide range of potential monetary penalties or consequences, enforcement actions, criminal liability and/or reputational harm. Such actions could be public or of a confidential nature, and arise even if we are acting in good faith or operating under a reasonable interpretation of the law and could include, for example, monetary penalties, payment of damages or other monetary relief, restitution or disgorgement of profits, directives to take remedial action or to cease or modify practices, restrictions on growth or expansionary proposals, denial or refusal to accept applications, removal of officers or directors, prohibition on dividends or capital distributions, increases in capital or liquidity requirements and/or termination of the Bank's deposit insurance. Additionally, compliance with applicable laws, regulations and commitments requires significant investment of management attention and resources. Any failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or commitments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance that is based on our assessment of loan losses in our loan portfolio. Further, through its adoption of the Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) model, the FASB has implemented a new accounting model to measure credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, which includes the vast majority of our loan portfolio. Under this new model, the allowance is established to reserve for managements best estimate of expected lifetime losses inherent in our finance receivables and loan portfolio. 17 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION The process for determining the amount of the allowance requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, revisions to accounting rules and related guidance, the implementation of CECL, new qualitative or quantitative information about existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, changes in the size or composition of our finance receivables and loan portfolio, changes to our loss estimation techniques including consideration of forecasted economic assumptions, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. A decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which the loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods. In addition, our regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. We are subject to stringent capital and liquidity regulations and requirements. LendingClub Corporation is the parent company of and a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. Legal entity liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal, regulatory, contractual and other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another, which could result in adverse liquidity events at either LendingClub Corporation and/or the Bank. In particular, the Bank is subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. Applicable laws and regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, could restrict our ability to transfer funds between the Bank and LendingClub Corporation, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Additionally, applicable laws and regulations may restrict what LendingClub Corporation is able to do with the liquidity it does possess, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Bank holding companies, including the Company, are subject to capital and liquidity standards. Further, we have made certain commitments to the banking regulators which require us to hold capital incremental to the minimum required under the applicable standards, which could thereby impact the Companys ability to invest in assets. From time to time, regulators may implement changes to these capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. If the Company fails to meet these minimum capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements, its business activities, including lending, and its ability to expand could be limited. It could also result in the Company being required to take steps to increase its regulatory capital that may be dilutive or adverse to stockholders, including limiting the Companys ability to pay dividends to stockholders or limiting the Companys ability to invest in assets even if deemed more desirable from a financial and business perspective. Changes in the legal and regulatory regime could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Laws, regulations and supervisory expectations, and the manner in which they are interpreted and enforced, are constantly changing. For example, governments could pass legislation or adopt policies based on changes in leadership, shifting priorities or in response to current financial conditions. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to the legal and regulatory regime or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Changes to the legal and regulatory regime may require material modifications to our products, services and operations, require significant investments of management attention and resources, or expose us to potential liability for past practices. Changes to the legal and regulatory regime, such as through amendments to laws and regulations, imposition of supervisory action, or shifts in governmental or regulatory policies, practices or priorities may have a material adverse impact on our operations, including the cost to conduct business, our results of operations and what products and services we can offer. 18 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION We have participated as a lender in the Federal Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) and have certain risks attributable to lenders under PPP. The PPP loans made by the Bank (which in this risk factor includes its predecessor entity Radius Bank) under the federal CARES Act are guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (SBA). If PPP loan funds are used by the borrower for specific purposes as provided under the PPP, the loan may be fully or partially forgiven by the SBA and the Bank will receive funds directly from the SBA. If, however, the PPP borrower fails to qualify for loan forgiveness then we may end up holding these loans at unfavorable interest rates as compared to the interest rate that we otherwise would have applied. There was and continues to be uncertainty regarding some of the laws, rules and guidance relating to the PPP. If the SBA or other regulators determine that the Bank has not complied with all PPP laws, rules and guidance, we could be required to refund some or all of the fees related to PPP loans that we have earned or be subject to other regulatory enforcement action. Furthermore, in the event of a loss resulting from a default on a PPP loan and a determination by the SBA that there was a deficiency in the manner in which the PPP loan was originated, funded or serviced by the Bank, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty, reduce the amount of the guaranty or, if it has already made payment under the guaranty, seek recovery of any loss related to the deficiency from the Bank. PPP lenders, including the Bank, may also be subject to the risk of litigation in connection with other aspects of the PPP, including but not limited to borrowers seeking forgiveness of their loans. Any financial liability or litigation related to the Banks participation in PPP could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected if our risk management framework does not effectively identify, assess and mitigate risk. Our risk management framework seeks to appropriately balance risk and return and mitigate our risks. We have established policies intended to regularly identify and assess our risk profile, including credit risk, pricing risk, liquidity risk, strategic risk and operational risk, and then implement appropriate processes and controls to mitigate the risk. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify, assess and/or mitigate our risk profile, we could suffer unexpected losses or be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, assessment of our risk profile depends, in part, upon the use of forecasting models. If these models are ineffective at predicting future losses or are otherwise inadequate, we may incur unexpected losses or otherwise be adversely affected. In addition, the information we use may be inaccurate or incomplete, both of which may be difficult to detect and avoid. Additionally, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. Finally, our risk management framework may be deemed insufficient or inadequate by our regulators, which may require that we invest additional resources into remediating any deficiencies and adversely impact our ability to operate our business until such time as the revised framework is deemed sufficient and adequate by our regulators. Participation by non-U.S. residents on our marketplace bank may result in non-compliance with foreign laws. From time to time, non-U.S. residents invest in loans directly through our marketplace bank. We are not experts with respect to all applicable laws in the various foreign jurisdictions from which an investor may be located, and we cannot be sure that we are complying with all applicable foreign laws. Failure to comply with such laws could result in fines and penalties payable by us, which could reduce our profitability or cause us to modify or delay planned expansions and expenditures, including investments in our growth. In addition, any such fines and penalties could create negative publicity, result in additional regulatory oversight that could limit our operations and ability to succeed, or otherwise hinder our plans to expand our business internationally. 19 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION RISKS RELATED TO OPERATING OUR BUSINESS Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions, including our recent acquisition of Radius Bancorp, may not yield the intended benefits. We have historically and may continue to evaluate and consider strategic transactions, combinations, acquisitions, dispositions or alliances. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations if consummated. If we are able to identify an appropriate business opportunity, we may not be successful in negotiating favorable terms and/or consummating the transaction and, even if we do consummate such a transaction, we may be unable to obtain the benefits or avoid the difficulties and risks of such transaction. In particular, on February 1, 2021, we acquired Radius Bancorp, Inc. (Radius) and thereby its wholly-owned subsidiary, Radius Bank. The Company anticipates that this acquisition may be transformational for the Company from both a financial and strategic perspective. However, any acquisition (including our acquisition of Radius), disposition or other strategic transactions involves risks, including: difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, systems, data, technologies, products and services of the acquired business, which may require ongoing investment in development and enhancement of additional operational and reporting processes and controls; inability of the acquired technologies, products or businesses to achieve expected levels of revenue, profitability, productivity or other benefits; difficulties in retaining, training, motivating and integrating key personnel; diversion of managements time and resources from our normal daily operations; difficulties in successfully incorporating licensed or acquired technology and rights into our platform; difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies within the combined organizations; difficulties in retaining relationships with customers, employees and suppliers of the acquired business; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience; regulatory risks, including remaining in good standing with existing regulatory bodies or receiving any necessary pre-closing or post-closing approvals, as well as being subject to new regulators with oversight over an acquired business; assumption of contractual obligations that contain terms that are not beneficial to us, require us to license or waive intellectual property rights or increase our risk for liability; failure to successfully further develop the acquired technology; liability for activities of the acquired or disposed of business before the acquisition or disposition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, regulatory actions, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; difficulty in separating assets and replacing shared services; assumption of exposure to performance of any acquired loan portfolios; potential disruptions to our ongoing businesses; and unexpected costs and unknown risks and liabilities associated with the acquisition. Accordingly, any acquisition, disposition or other strategic transaction may not be successful, may not benefit our business strategy, may not generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or may not otherwise result in the intended benefits. Additionally, it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of these transactions (including the acquisition of Radius), and those benefits and synergies may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The acquisition of Radius represents a significant transformation for the Company. While the Company is optimistic in its ability to integrate the Radius business and the strategic and financial opportunities the acquisition will enable, there is significant risk in the execution of the transformation and integration. For example, the Company is now subject to extensive regulation by the federal banking regulators and accordingly the Company needs to rapidly 20 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION evolve its compliance programs and ensure it has adequate processes and staffing to satisfy the applicable regulations and our regulators. Similarly in connection with the acquisition, the Company now offers a broader suite of products and services and there is a risk that there will be interruptions in the operation and support of these products and services while the Company completes the integration of the Radius business and personnel. Any failure, delay or interruptions related to this transformation and integration could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Finally, while the Company is undergoing this transformation and integration, certain of the other risks described in Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Report, such as our attrition risk, compliance with the bank regulatory regime, and resolution of regulatory and compliance matters associated with our prior regulatory regime, may be heightened during this inflection point for the Company. Further, the Company is transitioning from an issuing bank partnership model to one in which it directly originates the vast majority of its loans. Any transactions, combinations, acquisitions, dispositions or alliances may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders and the interests of holders of our indebtedness. In addition, we cannot assure you that any acquisition of new businesses or technology will lead to the successful development of new or enhanced products and services or that any new or enhanced products and services, if developed, will achieve market acceptance or prove to be profitable. Finally, we may also choose to divest certain businesses or product lines that no longer fit with our strategic objectives. If we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty obtaining terms acceptable to us in a timely manner, or at all. Additionally, the terms of such potential transactions may expose the Company to ongoing obligations and liabilities. We are regularly subject to litigation, and government and regulatory investigations, inquiries and requests. We are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, lawsuits alleging regulatory violations such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), Unfair and Deceptive Acts and Practices (UDAP) or Unfair, Deceptive or Abusive Acts or Practices (UDAAP) violations, government and regulatory exams, investigations, inquiries or requests, and other proceedings involving consumer protection, privacy, labor and employment, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, cyber security, securities, tax, commercial disputes, record retention and other matters. The number and significance of these claims, lawsuits, exams, investigations, inquiries and requests have increased as our business has expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. We are also subject to significant litigation and regulatory inquiries, as discussed more fully in Part II