Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. While we believe the risks and uncertainties described below include all material risks currently known by us, it is possible that these may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risk Factors Summary Our business is subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are discussed more fully below and include, but are not limited to: Risks Related to Regulation, Supervision and Compliance operating within the bank regulatory regime and to the satisfaction of the banking regulators; our compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including foreign laws); the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses; operating within capital and liquidity regulations and requirements; the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management framework; the impact of any changes to the legal and regulatory regime; and our participation in the Federal Paycheck Protection Program. Risks Related to Operating Our Business our ability to develop and commercialize products and services; holding loans on our balance sheet and associated credit, liquidity and interest rate risk; maintaining our deposit base; maintaining adequate liquidity; the impact of litigation and regulatory investigations, inquiries and requests; M&A activity, including our recent Acquisition; disruptions in our technology systems or failures in our technology initiatives; maintaining, protecting and promoting our brand; offering a breadth and volume of investment opportunities for platform investors; managing, and the impact of, fraudulent activity; forecasting demand for loans; maintaining and increasing loan originations; the ability of platform investors to exert influence over us; our use of the issuing bank partnership model; breaches of certain representations and warranties made to others; and our ability to manage indebtedness. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions or Other External Factors the impact of COVID-19 and our ability to navigate the current economic environment; fluctuations in interest rates; negative publicity and media coverage; the political environment and fiscal/monetary policies; a decline in overall social and economic conditions; and the impact of natural disasters, infrastructure failures and other business interruptions. 19 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Risks Related to Credit and Collections the accuracy and effectiveness of our credit decisioning models; and the effectiveness of our collections efforts. Risks Related to Our Industry our ability to compete; and the soundness of other financial institutions. Risks Related to Personnel and Third Parties attracting and retaining employees; the impact of any misconduct or errors; and our reliance on, and relationship with, third parties. Risks Related to Data, Intellectual Property and Privacy security incidents, failures and bugs in our systems; the impact of cyber-attacks suffered by third parties; the collection, storage and use of personal data; protecting our intellectual property rights; and our use of open source software. Risks Related to Tax and Accounting our ability to use our deferred tax asset; our net loss position; and changes in accounting standards and incorrect estimates and assumptions. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock the volatility of our stock price and fluctuations in quarterly results; the availability and content of research and reports by analysts; future equity dilution; our anti-takeover provisions and restrictions in accumulating a position in the Company; and our intention to not pay dividends in the foreseeable future. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION, SUPERVISION AND COMPLIANCE We operate in a highly regulated environment that affects virtually all aspects of our operations, and the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory expectations can materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legal requirements that affect virtually all aspects of our operations. The regulatory regime governing banking organizations is generally intended to protect customers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) and the overall financial stability of the United States, not our stockholders or creditors. See Item 1. Business Regulation and Supervision for information on the regulation and supervision framework which governs our Company and its activities. 20 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION We are regularly examined and inspected by our regulators, including the FRB and OCC. Our regulators have extensive authority and discretion in their interpretation, implementation, supervision and enforcement of the regulatory regime, including on matters related to: dividends or capital distributions by LC Bank or the Company; capital and liquidity requirements applicable to us, including the imposition of requirements more stringent than those required under generally applicable laws; the types and terms of products we offer, activities we may conduct or investments we may make; the composition, risk characteristics, potential adverse classification, allowance and risk reserves in connection with our loans or other assets; our deposit-gathering and other funding sources; the quality of our board and management oversight; the effectiveness of our risk management and compliance programs, including with respect to consumer protection, information technology, cybersecurity, third-party risk management, anti-money laundering and sanctions; LC Banks commitment to helping meet the credit needs of low- and moderate-income neighborhoods under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1967; their willingness to approve applications, such as for changes in our business plan, the establishment of new branches, the commencement of new activities, or the conduct of mergers and acquisitions; and our rate of growth and other expansionary or strategic initiatives. The Company became a bank holding company on February 1, 2021, with its acquisition of Radius, and therefore has only recently become subject to the bank regulatory regime. We continue to devote substantial time and resources to compliance and meeting our regulators supervisory expectations, which will adversely affect our profitably and may adversely affect our ability to pursue advantageous business opportunities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or commitments, or to satisfy our regulators supervisory expectations, could subject us to, among other things, supervisory or enforcement action, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or commitments, if we are deemed to have engaged in unsafe or unsound conduct, or if we do not satisfy our regulators supervisory expectations, then we may be subject to increased scrutiny, supervisory criticism, governmental or private litigation and/or a wide range of potential monetary penalties or consequences, enforcement actions, criminal liability and/or reputational harm. Such actions could be public or of a confidential nature, and arise even if we are acting in good faith or operating under a reasonable interpretation of the law and could include, for example, monetary penalties, payment of damages or other monetary relief, restitution or disgorgement of profits, directives to take remedial action or to cease or modify practices, restrictions on growth or expansionary proposals, denial or refusal to accept applications, removal of officers or directors, prohibition on dividends or capital distributions, increases in capital or liquidity requirements and/or termination of LC Banks deposit insurance. Additionally, compliance with applicable laws, regulations and commitments requires significant investment of management attention and resources. Any failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or commitments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance that is based on our assessment of loan losses in our loan portfolio. Further, through its adoption of the CECL model, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has implemented a new accounting model to measure credit losses for financial assets measured at amortized cost, which includes the vast majority of our loan portfolio. Under this new model, the allowance is established to reserve for managements best estimate of expected lifetime losses inherent in our finance receivables and loan portfolio. 21 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION The process for determining the amount of the allowance requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, revisions to accounting rules and related guidance, new qualitative or quantitative information about existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, changes in the size or composition of our finance receivables and loan portfolio, changes to our loss estimation techniques including consideration of forecasted economic assumptions, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. A decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which the loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods. In addition, our regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. We are subject to stringent capital and liquidity regulations and requirements. LendingClub Corporation is the parent company of and a separate and distinct legal entity from LC Bank. Legal entity liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal, regulatory, contractual and other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another, which could result in adverse liquidity events at either LendingClub Corporation and/or LC Bank. In particular, LC Bank is subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. Applicable laws and regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, could restrict our ability to transfer funds between LC Bank and LendingClub Corporation, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Additionally, applicable laws and regulations may restrict what LendingClub Corporation is able to do with the liquidity it does possess, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Bank holding companies, including the Company, are subject to capital and liquidity standards. Further, we have made certain commitments to the banking regulators which require us to hold capital incremental to the minimum required under the applicable standards, which could thereby impact the Companys ability to invest in assets. From time to time, regulators may implement changes to these capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. If the Company fails to meet these minimum capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements, its business activities, including lending, and its ability to expand could be limited. It could also result in the Company being required to take steps to increase its regulatory capital that may be dilutive or adverse to stockholders, including limiting the Companys ability to pay dividends to stockholders or limiting the Companys ability to invest in assets even if deemed more desirable from a financial and business perspective. Our business may be adversely affected if our risk management framework does not effectively identify, assess and mitigate risk. Our risk management framework seeks to appropriately balance risk and return and mitigate our risks, including risks attributable to third parties. We have established policies intended to regularly identify and assess our risk profile, including credit risk, pricing risk, liquidity risk, strategic risk and operational risk, and then implement appropriate processes and controls to mitigate risk. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify, assess and/or mitigate our risk profile, we could suffer unexpected losses or be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, assessment of our risk profile depends, in part, upon the use of forecasting models. If these models are ineffective at predicting future losses or are otherwise inadequate, we may incur unexpected losses or otherwise be adversely affected. In addition, the information we use may be inaccurate or incomplete, both of which may be difficult to detect and avoid. Additionally, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. 22 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION Finally, our risk management framework may be deemed insufficient or inadequate by our regulators, which have in the past required, and we expect to continue to require, that we invest additional resources into remediating any deficiencies and adversely impact our ability to operate our business until such time as the revised framework is deemed sufficient and adequate by our regulators. Changes in the legal and regulatory regime could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Laws, regulations and supervisory expectations, and the manner in which they are interpreted and enforced, are constantly changing. For example, governments could pass legislation or adopt policies based on changes in leadership, shifting priorities or in response to current financial conditions. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to the legal and regulatory regime or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Changes to the legal and regulatory regime may require material modifications to our products, services and operations, require significant investments of management attention and resources, or expose us to potential liability for past practices. Changes to the legal and regulatory regime, such as through amendments to laws and regulations, imposition of supervisory action, or shifts in governmental or regulatory policies, practices or priorities may have a material adverse impact on our operations, including the cost to conduct business, our results of operations and what products and services we can offer. We have participated as a lender in the Federal Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) and have certain risks attributable to lenders under PPP. The PPP loans made by LC Bank (which in this risk factor includes its predecessor entity Radius Bank) under the federal CARES Act are guaranteed by the SBA. If PPP loan funds are used by the borrower for specific purposes as provided under the PPP, the loan may be fully or partially forgiven by the SBA and LC Bank will receive funds directly from the SBA. If, however, the PPP borrower fails to qualify for loan forgiveness then we may end up holding these loans at unfavorable interest rates as compared to the interest rate that we otherwise would have applied. There was and continues to be uncertainty regarding some of the laws, rules and guidance relating to the PPP. If the SBA or other regulators determine that LC Bank has not complied with all PPP laws, rules and guidance, we could be required to refund some or all of the fees related to PPP loans that we have earned or be subject to other regulatory enforcement action. Furthermore, in the event of a loss resulting from a default on a PPP loan and a determination by the SBA that there was a deficiency in the manner in which the PPP loan was originated, funded or serviced by LC Bank, the SBA may deny its liability under the guaranty, reduce the amount of the guaranty or, if it has already made payment under the guaranty, seek recovery of any loss related to the deficiency from LC Bank. PPP lenders, including LC Bank, may also be subject to the risk of litigation in connection with other aspects of the PPP, including but not limited to borrowers seeking forgiveness of their loans. Any financial liability or litigation related to LC Banks participation in PPP could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Participation by non-U.S. residents on our marketplace bank may result in non-compliance with foreign laws. From time to time, non-U.S. residents invest in loans directly through our marketplace bank. We are not experts with respect to all applicable laws in the various foreign jurisdictions from which an investor may be located, and we cannot be sure that we are complying with all applicable foreign laws. Failure to comply with such laws could result in fines and penalties payable by us, which could reduce our profitability or cause us to modify or delay planned expansions and expenditures, including investments in our growth. In addition, any such fines and penalties could create negative publicity, result in additional regulatory oversight that could limit our operations and ability to succeed, or otherwise hinder our plans to expand our business internationally. 23 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION RISKS RELATED TO OPERATING OUR BUSINESS If we are unable to develop and commercialize new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services, our business may suffer. The financial services and banking industry is evolving rapidly and changing with disruptive technologies and the introduction of new products and services. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from transaction-based fees we collect in connection with the origination of unsecured personal loans. To enhance customer engagement and diversify our revenue streams, we are undertaking a strategy to broaden the scope of our products and services we offer. Failure to broaden the scope of our products and services leaves us dependent on a single revenue stream and vulnerable to competitors offering a suite of products and services. Accordingly, a key part of our success depends on our ability to develop and commercialize new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services. We incur expenses and expend resources to develop and commercialize new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services. However, we may not assign the appropriate level of resources, priority or expertise to the development and commercialization of these new products, services or enhancements. We also could utilize and invest in technologies, products and services that ultimately do not achieve widespread adoption and, therefore, are not as attractive or useful to our customers as we anticipate. Moreover, we may not realize the benefit of new technologies, products, services or enhancements for many years, and competitors may introduce more compelling products, services or enhancements in the meantime. Competitors also may develop or adopt technologies or introduce innovations that make our marketplace bank platform less attractive to our borrowers and/or investors. If we are unable to develop and commercialize timely and attractive products and services, our growth may be limited and our business may be materially and adversely affected. Holding loans on our balance sheet exposes us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risk, which may adversely affect our financial performance. We may hold loans purchased by the Company or issued by LC Bank for a short period or for a longer term. While these loans are on our balance sheet we earn interest on the loans, but we have exposure to the credit risk of the borrowers. In the event of a decline or volatility in the credit profile of these borrowers the value of these held loans may decline. This may adversely impact the liquidity of these loans, which could produce losses if we are unable to realize their fair value or manage declines in their value, each of which may adversely affect our financial performance. Further, utilizing our balance sheet to purchase loans at greater than forecasted amounts may impair our ability to allocate sufficient financial resources for other purposes, such as advancing our products and services, which could impact our results of operations. From time to time, we may provide incentives to investors to purchase such loans from us or we may sell the loans at a price that is less than par. Any incentive or difference to par may be partially or wholly offset by other factors, such as interest earned on the loan prior to its sale. However, selling loans with incentives or at prices less than par may discourage investors from purchasing loans on our platform without incentives or at par value, cause us to realize less revenue than expected with respect to such loans or prompt dissatisfaction and complaints from investors unable to purchase incentivized or discounted loans, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results. We may not be able to maintain our deposit base. We rely on deposits as a principal source of funding for our lending activities. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $3.1 billion in deposits, which consisted of $2.2 billion in core deposits and $0.9 billion in brokered deposits. Our future growth and strategy will largely depend on our ability to maintain core deposits to provide a less costly and stable source of funding. The deposit markets are competitive, and therefore it may prove difficult to 24 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION grow our core deposit base. Changes we make to the rates offered on our deposit products may affect our finances and liquidity. We also have brokered deposits, which may be more price sensitive than other types of deposits and may become less available if alternative investments offer higher returns. In addition, our ability to maintain existing or obtain additional deposits may be impacted by factors, including factors beyond our control, including perceptions about our reputation, financial strength or branchless banking generally, which could reduce the number of consumers choosing to place deposits with us. Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is also dependent on capital levels of LC Bank and being considered well-capitalized by the banking regulators. Our regulators can adjust the requirements to be well-capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits and the amount of brokered deposits we can accept. We also derive a portion of our deposits through our Banking-as-a-Service relationships. If a Banking-as-a-Service relationship were to terminate, our deposit base would decrease. An inability to develop and maintain a strong deposit base could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An inability to maintain adequate liquidity could jeopardize our business and financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. Although we believe that we currently have an adequate amount of liquidity to support our business, there are a number of factors that could reduce and/or deplete our existing liquidity position, including results of operations that are reduced relative to our projections, costs related to existing or future litigation or regulatory matters, the pursuit of strategic business opportunities (whether through acquisition or organic) and unanticipated liabilities. Additionally, as noted above, we are subject to stringent capital and liquidity regulations and requirements and need to manage our liquidity position at both LendingClub Corporation and LC Bank within the parameters and terms set forth by applicable regulations and regulators. LC Bank is subject to various legal, regulatory and other restrictions on its ability to make distributions and payments to the Company. Any inability to maintain an adequate liquidity position could adversely affect our operations, our compliance with applicable regulations and the performance of our business. Further, our ability to raise additional capital, should that be deemed beneficial and/or necessary, depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the financial services and banking industry, market conditions, governmental activities, and our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital if needed or on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. We are regularly subject to litigation, and government and regulatory investigations, inquiries and requests. We are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, lawsuits alleging regulatory violations such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), Unfair and Deceptive Acts and Practices (UDAP) or Unfair, Deceptive or Abusive Acts or Practices (UDAAP) violations, government and regulatory exams, investigations, inquiries or requests, and other proceedings involving consumer protection, privacy, labor and employment, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, anti-money laundering, securities, tax, commercial disputes, record retention and other matters. The number and significance of these claims, lawsuits, exams, investigations, inquiries and requests have increased as our business has expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. For example, since our acquisition of Radius, we are subject to supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by multiple federal banking regulatory bodies. Specifically, as a bank holding company, the Company is subject to ongoing and comprehensive supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the FRB. Further, as a national bank, LC Bank is subject to ongoing and comprehensive supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the OCC. Accordingly, we have been and continue to invest in regulatory compliance and to be subject to certain parameters, obligations and/or limitations set forth by the banking regulations and regulators with respect to the operation of our business. We are also subject to significant litigation and regulatory inquiries, as discussed more fully in Part II