Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. While we believe the risks and uncertainties described below include all material risks currently known by us, it is possible that these may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND REGULATION If we are unable to maintain our relationships with issuing banks, our business will suffer. We rely on issuing banks to originate all loans and to comply with various federal, state and other laws. Our primary issuing bank is WebBank, a Utah-chartered industrial bank that handles a variety of consumer and commercial financing programs. Springstone Financial, LLC (Springstone), our wholly-owned subsidiary, relies on NBT Bank and Comenity Capital Bank as issuing banks for its education and patient finance loans. Our agreements with WebBank are non-exclusive and do not prohibit WebBank from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our current agreements with WebBank have initial terms ending in January 2020, with two automatic, one-year renewal terms, subject to certain early termination provisions as set forth in the agreements. These agreements provide WebBank with a right to originate a certain percentage of the loans facilitated through our platform. WebBank currently offers loan programs through other online marketplaces and other alternative lenders. WebBank could decide that working with us is not in its interest, could make working with it cost prohibitive or could decide to enter into exclusive or more favorable relationships with our competitors. In addition, WebBank may not perform as expected under our agreements including potentially being unable to accommodate our projected growth in loan volume. We could in the future have disagreements or disputes with WebBank or other issuing banks, which could negatively impact or threaten our relationship. WebBank is subject to oversight by the FDIC and the State of Utah and must comply with complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination requirements, including requirements to maintain a certain amount of regulatory capital relative to its outstanding loans. We are a service provider to WebBank, and as such, we are subject to audit by WebBank in accordance with FDIC guidance related to management of third-party vendors. We are also subject to the examination and enforcement authority of the FDIC as a bank service company covered by the Bank Service Company Act. If WebBank were to suspend, limit or cease its operations or our relationship with WebBank were to otherwise terminate, we would need to implement a substantially similar arrangement with another issuing bank, obtain additional state licenses or curtail our operations. Although we currently have a non-exclusive arrangement with Cross River Bank, another issuing bank, to date Cross River Bank has not originated any loans through our platform. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements with a different issuing bank to replace our existing arrangements, we may not be able to negotiate a comparable alternative arrangement. Transitioning loan originations to a new issuing bank is untested and may result in delays in the issuance of loans or, if our platform becomes inoperable, may result in our inability to facilitate loans through our platform. If we were unable to enter in an alternative arrangement with a different issuing bank, we would need to obtain a state license in each state in which we operate to enable us to originate loans, as well as comply with other state and federal laws, which would be costly and time-consuming. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with WebBank or other issuing banks, our ability to provide loan products could be materially impaired and our operating results would suffer. 19 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION The regulatory framework for our business is evolving and uncertain as federal and state governments consider new laws to regulate online marketplaces such as ours. New laws and regulations, including uncertainty as to how the actions of the CFPB or any other federal or state regulator could impact our business or that of our issuing banks. The regulatory framework for online marketplaces such as ours is evolving and uncertain. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and internationally, or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in new ways, that would affect the operation of our marketplace and the way in which we interact with borrowers and investors. For a discussion of how government regulation impacts key aspects of our business, see Part II Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Regulatory Environment . Evolving Regulatory Framework In July 2015 the U.S. Treasury Department (Treasury Department) issued a request for information (RFI) to study the various business models and products offered by online marketplace lenders, the potential for online marketplace lending to expand access to credit to historically underserved borrowers and how the financial regulatory framework should evolve to support the safe growth of the industry. We, along with many other interested groups, submitted responses to the Treasury Department's RFI by the September 2015 deadline. On May 10, 2016, the Treasury Department released a white paper on the online marketplace lending industry to continue the work initiated by the RFI. The white paper includes several recommendations to the federal government and private sector participants to encourage safe growth and access to credit. We cannot predict whether any legislation or proposed rulemaking will actually be introduced or how any legislation or rulemaking will impact our business and results of operations going forward. In December 2015, the California Department of Business Oversight (DBO) sent an online survey to fourteen marketplace lenders, including us, requesting information about our business model, online platform, loan performance and investor funding process, including information regarding referral programs. In May 2016, the DBO requested additional information from us and other survey participants, including information regarding referral programs. We submitted our response to this additional information in June 2016 and continue to cooperate with the DBO's inquiry. In December 2016, the Officer of the Comptroller of Currency (OCC) released a whitepaper and sought public comment on whether to charter a type of special purpose national bank to facilitate the provision of core banking activities through financial technology. We, along with other interested parties, submitted responses to the OCCs proposed special purpose charter (Fintech Charter) in January 2017. We cannot predict whether or when the OCC will begin accepting applications for Fintech Charters, if we will pursue a Fintech Charter, or how this new Fintech Charter could impact our industry, business and results of operations going forward. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau The CFPB, which commenced operations in July 2011, has broad authority over the businesses in which we engage. This includes authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and to enforce those laws against and examine large financial institutions, such as our issuing banks, for compliance. The CFPB is authorized to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices through its regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority. While we are subject to the regulatory and enforcement authority of the CFPB, as a facilitator, servicer or acquirer of consumer credit, the CFPB has recently announced that it intends to expand its supervisory authority, through the use of larger participant rules, to cover the markets for consumer installment loans and auto title loans. The CFPB is also considering whether rules to require registration of these or other non-depository lenders would facilitate supervision. The CFPB has not announced specifics regarding its proposed rulemaking and, consequently, there 20 LENDINGCLUB CORPORATION continues to be uncertainty as to how the CFPBs strategies and priorities, including any final rules, will impact our businesses and results of operations going forward. The announcement of our internal board review and resignation of our former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has resulted in government inquiries, books and records demands and private litigation and could result in government enforcement actions and private litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, result in substantial costs and divert managements attention. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits (including class actions and individual lawsuits), government investigations, and other proceedings in the ordinary course of business. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as a result of our internal board review and resignation of our former CEO. Accordingly, we are and will continue to be subject to significant litigation in the near future. As previously disclosed, we have received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and have been contacted by the SEC, Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and other governmental entities. We continue to cooperate with the DOJ, SEC, FTC and any other governmental or regulatory authorities or agencies. In the first and second quarter of 2016, several putative class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative actions were filed against the Company, including certain of its current and former directors and officers. No assurance can be given as to the timing or outcome of these, or other matters. Any regulatory investigation could result in significant fines or penalties and could result in consent decrees or other regulatory directives limiting the way we do business or requiring a third-party monitor to assist in overseeing compliance. This would limit our flexibility and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Any litigation to which we are a party may result in onerous or unfavorable judgments that may not be reversed upon appeal or in payments of substantial monetary damages or fines, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on similarly unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, and results of operations. In addition, responding to inquiries and lawsuits of this nature is costly and time-consuming to management, can generate negative publicity, and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation. See Part II