Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCurrency Exchange Rate Information.). Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. Similarly, depreciation in the ZAR may negatively impact the prices at which our stock trades. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging using forward contracts relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in U.S. dollars or euros. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. South Africas high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment, relative to peer countries in Africa and other emerging economies, and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. In addition, South Africa has a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. The economy of South Africa is exposed to high rates of inflation, interest and corporate tax, which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. Furthermore, the South African government requires additional income to fund future government expenditures and may be required, among other things, to increase existing income tax rates, including the corporate income tax rate, amend existing tax legislation or introduce additional taxes. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly-developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. High interest rates increase the cost of our debt financing, though conversely, they also increase the amount of income we earn on any cash balances. The South African corporate income tax rate, of 28%, is higher than the U.S. federal income tax rate, of 21%. While the South African corporate income tax rate is expected to reduce to 27% in fiscal 2023, any subsequent increase in the effective South African corporate income tax rate would adversely impact our profitability and cash flow generation. Risks Relating to Government Regulation We are required to comply with certain laws and regulations, including economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We are subject to U.S. and other trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign trade control laws and regulations, including various export controls and economic sanctions programs, such as those administered by OFAC. We monitor compliance in accordance with the 10 principles as set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development recommendations relating to corruption, and the International Labor Organization Protocol in terms of certain of the items to be monitored. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating trade control laws as well as sanctions regulations. 17 Violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international trade control laws and regulations, including trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, and provide regular training to our employees to create awareness about the risks of violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations and to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not act in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Any expansion into developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships, could increase the risk of OFAC violations in the future. In addition, our payment processing and financial services activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under the various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We are required to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the FCPA and UK Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate our business, which could adversely impact our future growth. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business, or securing any improper business advantage, and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. The UK Bribery Act includes provisions that extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals not employed by a government and the act is also more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Some of the international locations in which we operate or have investments lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the anti-corruption laws and regulations could subject us to substantial penalties, and the requirement that we comply with these laws could put us at a competitive disadvantage against companies that are not required to comply. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a commonly accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us . Violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S., South African and other international anti-corruption laws and regulations, and provide regular training to our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not have a South African banking license and, therefore, we provide our EPE solution through an arrangement with a third-party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our EPE business without alternate means of access to a banking license. The South African retail banking market is highly regulated. Under current law and regulations, our EPE business activities require us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. We are not currently so registered, but we have an agreement with Grindrod Bank that enables us to implement our EPE program in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If this agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate these services unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. Furthermore, we have to comply with the strict anti-money laundering and customer identification regulations of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB), when we open new bank accounts for our customers and when they transact. Failure to effectively implement and monitor responses to these regulations may result in significant fines or prosecution of Grindrod Bank and ourselves. 18 It has recently been announced that Grindrod Bank will be acquired by African Bank which operates across the lower end of the South African financial services market. It is not yet clear how African Bank will view our current arrangement with Grindrod Bank and whether this changes the risk of termination. In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. Smart Life was granted an Authorized Financial Service Provider, or FSP, license on June 9, 2015, and Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd and Net1 Mobile Solutions (Pty) Ltd were each granted FSP licenses on July 11, 2017. If our FSP licenses are cancelled, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa. Furthermore, the proposed Conduct of Financial Institutions Bill will make significant changes to the current licensing regime. The second draft of the Conduct of Financial Institutions Bill was published for public comment on 29 September 2020. While the proposals currently indicate that existing licenses will be converted, if we are not successful in our efforts to obtain a conversion of the existing licenses or cannot comply with the new conduct standards to be published at the same time under the Financial Sector Regulation Act, No. 9 of 2017, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa. We may be subject to regulations regarding privacy, data use and/or security, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulations in a number of the countries in which we operate relating to the processing (which includes, inter alia , the collection, use, retention, security and transfer) of personal information about the people (whether natural or juristic) who use our products and services. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Amendments to the NCA were signed into law in South Africa in August 2019. Compliance with these amendments may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. In August 2019, the National Credit Amendment Bill, or debt-relief bill, was signed into law in South Africa. The effective date of the debt-relief bill has not yet been announced. We believe that the debt-relief bill will restrict the ability of financial services providers to provide lending products to certain low-income earners and will increase the cost of credit to these consumers. As a result, compliance with the debt-relief bill may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. Furthermore, we expect that it will take us, and other financial services providers, some time to fully understand, interpret and implement this new legislation in our lending processes and practices. Non-compliance with the provisions of this new legislation may result in financial loss and penalties, reputational loss or other administrative punishment. Risks Relating to our Common Stock If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to conduct our business as an operating company and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are an operating company whose business is focused on developing and offering payment solutions, transaction processing services and financial technologies across multiple industries directly and through our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our conduct, public filings and announcements hold us out as such an operating company and do not hold us out as being engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We own, and in the past have owned, certain assets that may be deemed to be investment securities within the meaning of Section 3(a)(2) of the Investment Company Act. The fluctuating value of our assets that may be deemed to be investment securities, could cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act if the value of such investment securities exceeds certain defined thresholds. If we are deemed an investment company and not entitled to an exception or exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act, we would have to register as an investment company, modify our asset profile or otherwise change our business so that it falls outside the definition of an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Registering as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act could, among other things, materially limit our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions and otherwise would subject us to substantial and costly regulation. Failure to register, if required, would significantly impair our ability to continue to engage in our business and would have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. 19 Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has periodically experienced significant volatility. During the 2022 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $3.84 to a high of $6.97. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: any adverse developments in litigation or regulatory actions in which we are involved; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate; announcement of additional BEE transactions, especially one involving the issuance or potential issuance of equity securities or dilution or sale of our existing business in South Africa; quarterly variations in our operating results; significant fair value adjustments or impairment in respect of investments or intangible assets; announcements of acquisitions or disposals; the timing of, or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of major projects; large purchases or sales of our common stock; and general conditions in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, shares of our common stock can be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies, to expand into new markets and to make acquisitions, all of which may be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. The put right we granted to the IFC Investors on the occurrence of certain triggering events may have adverse impacts on us. In May 2016, we issued an aggregate of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock to the IFC Investors, of which, as of June 30, 2022, the IFC Investors held 7,366,866 shares. We granted the IFC Investors certain rights, including the right to require us to repurchase any share held by the IFC Investors pursuant to the May 2016 transaction upon the occurrence of specified triggering events, which we refer to as a put right. The put price per share will be the higher of the price per share paid to us by the IFC Investors and the volume-weighted average price per share prevailing for the 60 trading days preceding the triggering event, except that with respect to a put right triggered by rejection of a bona fide offer, the put price per share will be the highest price offered by the offeror. If a put triggering event occurs, it could adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, the existence of the put right could also affect whether or on what terms a third party might in the future offer to purchase our company. Our response to any such offer could also be complicated, delayed or otherwise influenced by the existence of the put right. Approximately 33% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with those of our other shareholders. There is a concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock because approximately 33% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. Based on their most recent SEC filings disclosing ownership of our shares, Value Capital Partners (Pty) Ltd, or VCP, and IFC Investors, beneficially own approximately 21% and 12% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2022, respectively. VCP has agreed, pursuant to an Amended Cooperation Agreement dated December 9, 2020, to refrain from acquiring more than 24.9% of our outstanding common stock, excluding shares that may be issued pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated March 22, 2022, or taking certain actions, including acting in concert with others, that could result in a change of control of the Company. These restrictions remain in effect through to the business day immediately following our 2022 annual meeting of shareholders. The interests of VCP and the IFC Investors may be different from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of the significant combined ownership by VCP and the IFC Investors, subject to the limitations applicable to VCP contained in the Amended Cooperation Agreement, they may be able, if they act together, to significantly influence the voting outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, thus depriving shareholders of a premium for their shares, or facilitating a change of control that other shareholders may oppose. We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of shares of our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of such shares. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. We may also wish to raise additional equity funding to reduce the amount of debt funding on our balance sheet. 20 Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations, to reduce debt or to acquire other businesses, issue shares in a BEE transaction, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders and any such additional shares would likely be freely tradable, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, especially over companies that we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our management evaluation and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2022, excluded the operations of Connect. If we are not able to integrate Connects operations into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, we are required to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal controls also applies to companies that we acquire. As a group of private companies, Connect was not required to comply with Sarbanes prior to the time we acquired it. The integration of Connect into our internal control over financial reporting is expected to require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. If we fail to successfully integrate the operations of Connect, and any other acquisitions, into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, including with respect to Connects operations, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the markets perception of our business and our stock price . You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based upon U.S. laws, including federal securities laws or other foreign laws, against us or certain of our directors and officers and experts. While Lesaka is incorporated in the state of Florida, United States, the company is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa and substantially all of the companys assets are located outside the United States. In addition, the majority of Lesakas directors and all its officers reside outside of the United States and the majority of our experts, including our independent registered public accountants, are based in South Africa. As a result, even though you could effect service of legal process upon Lesaka, as a Florida corporation, in the United States, you may not be able to collect any judgment obtained against Lesaka in the United States, including any judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws, because substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process upon the majority of our directors and officers or upon our experts within the United States or elsewhere outside South Africa and any judgment obtained against any of our foreign directors, officers and experts in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by a South African court. 21 South Africa is not a party to any treaties regarding the enforcement of foreign commercial judgments, as opposed to foreign arbitral awards. Accordingly, a foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which may be enforced by South African courts provided that: the court which pronounced the judgment had international jurisdiction and competence to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); the judgment has not lapsed; the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy in South Africa, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that no award is enforceable unless the defendant was duly served with documents initiating proceedings, that he or she was given a fair opportunity to be heard and that he or she enjoyed the right to be legally represented in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; the judgment was not obtained by improper or fraudulent means; the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or foreign revenue law or any award of multiple or punitive damages; and the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Business Act 99 of 1978 (as amended), of the Republic of South Africa. It has been the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. South African courts have awarded compensation to shareholders who have suffered damages as a result of a diminution in the value of their shares based on various actions by the corporation and its management. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unenforceable in the South African legal system, that does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. The award of punitive damages is governed by the relevant South African legislation, the Conventional Penalties Act 15 of 1962 (as amended). Whether a judgment was contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable, or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by a South African court, it will be payable in South African currency unless approval is obtained from SARB or an Authorised Dealer of SARB, to settle the judgement in another currency. Also, under South Africas exchange control laws, the approval of SARB or an Authorised Dealer is required before a defendant resident in South Africa may pay money to a non-resident plaintiff in satisfaction of a foreign judgment enforced by a court in South Africa. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws may be brought before South African courts. A plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. Furthermore, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South African courts. In reaching the foregoing conclusions in respect of South Africa, we consulted with our South African legal counsel, Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease our corporate headquarters facility which consists of approximately 87,000 square feet in Johannesburg, South Africa. We also lease properties throughout South Africa, including an approximately 36,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Lazer Park, Johannesburg, 213 financial services branches, 80 financial service express stores and 29 satellite branches. We also lease additional office space in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban, South Africa; and Gaborone, Botswana. These leases expire at various dates through 2028, assuming the exercise of options to extend. We believe that we have adequate facilities for our current business operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Resolution of NCR application for the cancelation of Moneylines registration as a credit provider In September 2014, the NCR applied to the South African National Consumer Tribunal, or Tribunal, to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline, for breach of the NCA based on an investigation concluded by it. We raised a number of procedural points in defense, and argument on these points was heard on November 27, 2015, before three tribunal members. Two ruled against us and one upheld our points. We appealed the majority ruling to the High Court. This matter was heard on December 4, 2018, by a full bench of the Pretoria High Court. In opposing this appeal, the NCR contended that our appeal had no basis and they raised, as a procedural point, that we should have joined the Tribunal as a party to the appeal proceedings. On August 30, 2019, it was ordered that the Tribunal be included in the appeal proceedings and this appeal was scheduled to be heard on October 27, 2021. The parties settled the matter out of court in mid-October 2021. The settlement process included the NCR withdrawing its application to cancel our NCA registration with the Tribunal and we agreed to withdraw our appeal with the High Court. The settlement was made an order of the High Court on October 27, 2021. The parties agreed to pay their own costs related to this matter. Litigation related to CPS As a result of significant obligations relating to, and ongoing litigation arising out of, CPS SASSA contract, including the exhaustion of CPS legal appeals against a court judgment to repay additional SASSA implementation costs, CPS was placed into liquidation in October 2020. As a result, CPS liquidators are currently in control of the CPS liquidated estate and are managing the affairs in relation thereto. We have proven our claims and are noted as a creditor along with other creditors in the liquidated estate. There are no other material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, to which we are a party or of which any of our property is the subject. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 23 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market information Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, in the United States under the symbol LSAK and on the JSE in South Africa under the symbol LSK. The Nasdaq is our principal market for the trading of our common stock. Our transfer agent in the United States is Computershare Shareowner Services LLC, 480 Washington Blvd, Jersey City, New Jersey, 07310. According to the records of our transfer agent, as of August 31, 2022, there were 8 shareholders of record of our common stock. We believe that a substantially greater number of beneficial owners of our common stock hold their shares though banks, brokers, and other financial institutions (i.e. street name). Our transfer agent in South Africa is JSE Investor Services (Pty) Ltd, 13th Floor, Rennie House, 19 Ameshoff Street, Braamfontein, 2001, South Africa. Dividends We have not paid any dividends on shares of our common stock during our last two fiscal years and presently intend to retain future earnings to finance the expansion of the business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, debt commitments, expansion plans, financial condition and other relevant factors. Issuer purchases of equity securities On February 5, 2020, our board of directors approved the replenishment of our existing share repurchase authorization to repurchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during fiscal 2022. 24 Share performance graph The chart below compares the five-year cumulative return, assuming the reinvestment of dividends, where applicable, on our common stock with that of the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Industrial Index. This graph assumes $100 was invested on June 30, 2017, in each of our common stock, the companies in the S&P 500 Index, and the companies in the NASDAQ Industrial Index. 25 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 26 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. See Item 1A Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. Overview We are a provider of financial technology, or fintech, products and services to unbanked and underbanked individuals and small businesses, predominantly in South Africa. We have developed and own most of our payment technologies, and where possible, we utilize this technology to provide financial and value-added services to our customers by including them in the formal financial system. Sources of Revenue We generate our revenues by charging transaction fees to merchants, financial service providers, utility providers, bill issuers and consumers; by selling pinned airtime to merchants; by providing loans to merchants and consumers, and insurance products to consumers and by selling hardware, licensing software and providing related technology services to merchants. We act as a service provider whereby we own and operate the technology and apply it in a system ourselves, charging one-time and ongoing fees for the use of the system either on a fixed or ad valorem basis. For instance, through the acquisition of Connect, we now provide cash management and payment services to merchant customers through a digital vault (safe asset) which is located at the customers premises and generate processing revenue from the provision of these services. We also offer merchant customers access to platforms through which we (a) generate revenue from the sale of prepaid airtime and (b) generate fees from distribution of VAS, including prepaid airtime, prepaid electricity, gaming voucher, and other services, to users of our platforms. We also generate fees from debit and credit card transaction processing and interest revenue from qualifying merchant customers who are able to access short-term loans. The revenue and costs associated with these services and sales are included in our merchant operating segment. We provide consumers with bank accounts from which we generate a monthly fee and also charge fees on an ad valorem basis for goods and services purchased. Usage of our bank accounts also provides our customers with access to short-term loans and life insurance products. We also generate fees from consumers utilizing our ATM network. The revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our consumer operating segment. Developments during Fiscal 2022 This year has been one of enormous change for the Company with some transformational events occurring which we believe will set Lesaka on a new path of exciting growth, focused on the South African market as well as some of its neighboring countries. All of these events align with our mission of striving to bring financial inclusion to Merchants and Consumers in South Africa and building a world class fintech platform. Adopting a new brand and identity As we embarked on creating a world class financial technology platform and repositioning ourselves for growth, it became evident we required a new identity that would resonate with our customers and employees. It was important for our new identity to authentically express our commitment to the local communities we serve and our ambition to drive financial inclusion by giving ordinary people and small businesses access to essential financial services. For thousands of years, livestock have been seen as a symbol of security, community and wealth and protecting ones livestock was central to preserving the dignity and pride of a community. To ensure the best possible protection, an enclosure commonly known as a kraal in South Africa was built in the center of the community. A kraal is seen as the social and economic heart of a village and only the most reliable people are entrusted with its care and protection. The word Lesaka means Kraal in Setswana and Sesotho, two of South Africas official languages, and it was agreed by our shareholders that the existing company name Net1 should change to Lesaka, which aptly represents our new group and its vision. As Lesaka, we are on a mission to build and protect the financial wellbeing of our communities and our intention is to protect the vulnerable and underserved, by providing widespread access to essential financial services. 27 Acquisition of Connect On April 14, 2022 the Company completed its acquisition of Connect in South Africa, for ZAR 3.8 billion. The acquisition of Connect, a profitable, high-growth and leading South African fintech company, is transformational for Lesaka in its journey to become South Africas leading fintech platform. The acquisition of Connect significantly advances Lesakas vision and is truly transformational for the Company. The acquisition adds significant scale to our legacy B2B offering, bringing 44,000 micro, small and medium enterprises into the Merchant business segment. We expect the complementary product offerings to create significant growth opportunities by enabling us to address the needs of approximately 1.4 million informal and approximately 700,000 formal micro, small and medium enterprises in South Africa. Connect has demonstrated its ability to deliver excellent growth and profitability through its innovative solutions for micro, small and medium enterprises across South Africa, and its combination with Lesakas existing B2B operations creates a business with significant scale across all tiers. Connect is highly profitable with strong unit economics delivering an historic three-year compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in excess of 40% for its financial year ended February 28, 2022. Connect has significant opportunities for continued growth within its current addressable market, estimated at more than ZAR 100 billion ($6.6 billion), in merchant financial services for MSMEs in South Africa. Further, this addressable market has strong secular growth due to MSMEs shifting from manual to digitized cash management and from physical cash to digital payment methods. Connect fills four key gaps in Lesakas product offering, namely the provision of value-added services directly to MSMEs, digitized cash management, merchant acquiring and merchant lending. On the other hand, Net1s legacy businesses bring issuing, insurance and consumer financial services infrastructure to Connect. Offering multiple products to a single customer reduces churn, increases take-rate and improves unit economics. Refer to Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the acquisition. Our strategic focus areas During this fiscal year, we communicated the following four key pillars which we believe are critical to the successful transformation of our company to becoming a leading South African full-service fintech platform: Rapidly growing the merchant business; Returning the consumer business to profitability; Transforming our organization into a world class fintech platform; and Strengthening our relationships with key stakeholders. Focused effort throughout the year on each of these pillars has delivered positive momentum, repositioning the business to capture the long-term growth opportunities across both our merchant and consumer businesses. Rapid growth of our merchant business As discussed above, the transformational acquisition of Connect, was key in delivering on this focus area. With market leading affordable products and technologies, Connect is well positioned to continue its growth in the MSME sector. Connects MSME offering, combined with our EasyPay platform targeting the larger merchants, and our point-of-sale business, provides a suite of products and services to address the needs of the entire spectrum of merchants in South Africa. Mr. Steve Heilbron, CEO of Connect, joined our board on April 14, 2022, and will be responsible for heading up our Merchant business. Integrating Connect will be a focus area for us going forward, to ensure we capitalize on the growth opportunity delivered by this acquisition. Returning the Consumer business to profitability We have made significant progress in returning the Consumer segment to profitability as is evident from our segment reporting. However, transforming the business and culture, from one which was focused on the logistics of efficiently distributing grants to over ten million grant recipients each month, to a sales focused organization remains a challenge we are focused on. We have spent a lot of time and resources on training and building our sales force, but this remains a work in progress. 28 The Consumer segment has shown considerable improvement in performance from a year ago and the positive momentum has been achieved through focusing on three key levers: Increasing active EPE account numbers, through driving customer acquisition; Improving ARPU, underpinned by increased cross selling; and Optimizing the cost structure, in line with a focus on customer centricity. Progress on driving customer acquisition During fiscal 2022, we grew our total customer base by approximately 157,000 net active customers of which around 31,000 were EPE lite customers and around 126,000 were EPE customers, ending the year with just over 1.168 million active customers. This active account growth is slower than what we had anticipated. We did, however, register 256,000 gross account openings during the year, and have started to see the benefits of a workstream focusing on improving account activation and utilization that was initiated during the third quarter. There has been enormous focus during the year on how to optimize our points of presence and upskill our employees in order to drive these numbers. This process has taken longer than originally expected, but with our improved data analytics and ongoing market research we believe we have made major progress and expect to see improvements in the next fiscal year arising from this customer centric approach. Progress on cross selling ARPU remains broadly within our targeted ARPU range. We had approximately 396,000 active loans at the end of the quarter, representing a 36% penetration of our active EPE customer base, with a total loan book of ZAR 349 million ($21.5 million) as of June 30, 2022, up 4% in ZAR compared with June 2021. The average loan size grew to ZAR 1,461, while the portfolio loss ratio, calculated as the loans written off during the period as a percentage of the total loan book, remains encouragingly low at around 1.00% for the quarter (i.e. approximately 4% per annum), as a result of our ongoing application of prudent credit scoring and a culture of responsible lending. Our funeral insurance product provides an important growth opportunity for our cross-selling strategy, with penetration levels now around 19% of the active account base. Over 40,500 new standalone policies were initiated during the year, growing the total number of active policies to approximately 259,000, up 8.3% compared with June 2021. Progress on cost optimization In order to optimize the overall cost base and to move the business towards a sales-focused and client solution driven financial services organization, we launched Project Spring during the 2022 financial year. Project Spring focused on the restructuring of our financial services business and the rationalization of the distribution network. Pursuant to Project Spring, a detailed review of the distribution network was performed to identify underperforming branches and optimize our points of presence to meet the needs of our customer base. We also embarked on a retrenchment process that resulted in our headcount reducing by approximately 800 at a total cost during the third quarter of fiscal 2022 of $5.9 million. Please refer to Note 1 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. In addition, significant progress has been made on optimizing our cash distribution and ATM network. Our large fleet of mobile ATMs and the associated distribution and security costs have been eliminated. Following a review of the ATM placements, over 50% of our ATM network are now positioned in retailers, providing greater footfall and longer operating hours compared to our branches. We estimate that the aggregate annualized cost saving for Project Spring is over ZAR 300.0 million. We continue with our cost optimization efforts despite the completion of Project Spring and its significant achievements. In particular, we are re-examining the performance of all our points of presence and increasingly looking to partner with various retailers, rather than having our own dedicated brick and mortar branches. Furthermore, following the recent acquisition of Connect we are working on how to optimize the cash movement processes of the two businesses. Transforming our organization into a world class fintech platform Building a world class fintech platform requires highly talented people, an environment where they can outperform and a clear vision and strategy, where everyone is aligned and understands their role in achieving that vision. During the fiscal year, we brought in a significant number of experienced, high quality executives to enhance the leadership of the organization. This has been further enhanced by the strong management team that has driven the success of Connect. The leadership team has deep and relevant experience to deliver on the mission of the Company, with the necessary governance structures in place. 29 The South African Competition Tribunals approval of the Connect acquisition was subject to the company implementing an employee share transaction (ESOP) of at least 3% of the issued shares of the company, to increase the spread of ownership by historically disadvantaged people and workers. If within 24 months of the implementation date of the Connect transaction, the company generates a positive net profit for 3 consecutive quarters, the ESOP shall increase to 5% of the issued shares. The final structure of the ESOP is contingent on shareholder approval and relevant regulatory and governance approvals and will only be implemented during fiscal 2023. Strengthening our relationships with key stakeholders We continue to build our relationship with SASSA through proactive engagement at a local, provincial and national level, to gain a better understanding of their needs and how we can help and improve the delivery of social grants to over 12 million grant recipients. We have also made good progress on building relationships with our various key stakeholders, be it shareholders, regulators, suppliers and other participants in our sectors. Investments There has been no change to the carrying value of our investment in MobiKwik during fiscal 2022. MobiKwik filed its draft red herring prospectus in July 2021, with the original intention of completing its initial public offering in November 2021. MobiKwik decided to delay its initial public offering given prevailing market conditions and will reassess their options as market conditions change. MobiKwik has been focusing on its buy now pay later (BNPL) offering and has seen significant growth in that area in the last year. It continues to grow strongly and is also considering plans for raising additional capital privately. On March 15, 2022, Blue Label Telecoms Limited, the largest shareholder in Cell C, announced that it has concluded a non-binding term sheet (Umbrella Restructure Term Sheet) with Cell C and various Cell C financial stakeholders. In terms of the Umbrella Restructure Term Sheet, Cell C will be restructured and refinanced with the purpose of deleveraging its balance sheet, providing it with liquidity with which to operate and grow its businesses and to position itself to achieve long term success for the benefit of its customers, employees, creditors, shareholders, and other stakeholders. The long form agreements, which will be binding, are currently in process of preparation and will incorporate the terms and conditions contained in the Umbrella Restructure Term Sheet. The latest public announcements have indicated that the recapitalization is expected to close by the middle of September 2022. Our investment in Cell C is held at a carrying value of $0 (zero) as of June 30, 2022. Impact of COVID-19 During the fiscal year, we did not experience any significant disruptions from the COVID-19 outbreak, and the risk relating to the outbreak appears to have substantially reduced. Critical Accounting Policies Our audited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty, the determination of estimates requires managements judgment based on a variety of assumptions and other determinants such as historical experience, current and expected market conditions and certain scientific evaluation techniques. Management believes that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and the impact of these policies on the understanding of the results of our operations and financial condition. Business Combinations and the Recoverability of Goodwill A significant component of our growth strategy is to acquire and integrate businesses that complement our existing operations. The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair value at the date of purchase. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, we use various recognized valuation methods, including present value modeling. Further, we make assumptions using certain valuation techniques, including discount rates and timing of future cash flows. We review the carrying value of goodwill annually or more frequently if circumstances indicating impairment have occurred. In performing this review, we are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill that is implied from a valuation of the reporting unit to which the goodwill has been allocated after deducting the fair values of all the identifiable assets and liabilities that form part of the reporting unit. The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In determining the fair value of reporting units for fiscal 2022 and 2021, we considered entity-specific growth rates, future expected cash flows to be used in our discounted cash flow model, and the weighted-average cost of capital applicable to peer and industry comparables of the reporting units. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. In addition, we make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. 30 The results of our impairment tests during fiscal 2022 and 2021 indicated that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and so did not require impairment. Intangible Assets Acquired Through Acquisitions The fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired through acquisitions were determined by management using the purchase method of accounting. We completed the acquisition of Connect during fiscal 2022 where we identified and recognized intangible assets. We used the relief from royalty method to value identified brands and the multi-period excess earnings method to value the integrated platform and identified customer relationships. We have used the relief from royalty method, the multi-period excess earnings method, the income approach and the cost approach to value other historic acquisition-related intangible assets. In so doing, we made assumptions regarding expected future revenues and expenses to develop the underlying forecasts, applied contributory asset charges, discount rates, exchange rates, cash tax charges and useful lives. The valuations were based on information available at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that were deemed reasonable by us. No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected. For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows. To the extent actual cash flows vary, revisions to the useful life or impairment of intangible assets may be necessary. Management assess the useful life of the acquired intangible assets upon initial recognition and revisions to the useful life or impairment of these intangible assets may be necessary in the future. For instance, in the recently closed Connect transaction, management has assigned useful lives to the acquired intangible assets as follows: (a) integrated platform 10 years; (b) customer relationships 8 years; and (c) brands 10 years. Revenue recognition principal versus agent considerations We generate revenue from the provision of transaction-processing services through our various platforms and service offerings. We use these platforms to (a) sell prepaid airtime and (b) distribute VAS, including prepaid airtime, prepaid electricity, gaming voucher, and other services, to users of our platforms. The determination of whether we act as a principal or as an agent when providing these services requires a significant amount of judgement and is based on whether (i) we are primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified goods or service, (ii) we have inventory risk before the specified good or service has been transferred to a customer and (iii) we have discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. When we are the principal in a transaction, such as when we purchase (and thus control and assume inventory risk) prepaid airtime before selling it to customers utilizing our platform, revenue is reported on a gross basis. When we are an agent in a transaction, such as when we distribute VAS on behalf of our customers, and do not control the good or service to be provided, revenue is recognized based on the amount that we are contractually entitled to receive for performing the distribution service on behalf of our customers using our platform. Valuation of investment in Cell C We have elected to measure our investment in Cell C, an unlisted equity security, at fair value using the fair value option. Changes in the fair value of this equity security are recognized in the caption change in fair value of equity securities in our audited consolidated statements of operations. The tax impact related to the change in fair value of equity securities is included in income tax expense in our audited consolidated statements of operation. The determination of the fair value of this equity security requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Refer to Note 6 of our audited consolidated financial statements regarding the valuation inputs and sensitivity related to our investment in Cell C. We used a discounted cash flow model to determine the fair value of our investment in Cell C as of June 30, 2022 and 2021, and valued Cell C at $0.0 (zero) as of each of June 30, 2022 and 2021. We utilized the latest approved business plan provided by Cell C management for the period ended December 31, 2026, for the June 30, 2022 and 2021 valuations, and the following key valuation inputs were used: Weighted Average Cost of Capital: Between 16% and 24% over the period of the forecast Long-term growth rate: 3% (3% as of June 30, 2021) Marketability discount: 10% Minority discount: 15% Net adjusted external debt - June 30, 2022: (1) ZAR 13.5 billion ($0.8 billion), no lease liabilities included Net adjusted external debt - June 30, 2021: (2) ZAR 11.2 billion ($0.8 billion), no lease liabilities included (1) translated from ZAR to U.S. dollars at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2022. (2) translated from ZAR to U.S. dollars at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2021. We believe the Cell C business plan is reasonable based on the current performance and the expected changes in the business model. Refer to the sensitivity analysis included in Note 6 to our audited consolidated financial statements related to our valuation of Cell C as of June 30, 2022. 31 Recoverability of equity securities and equity-accounted investments We review our equity securities and equity-accounted investments for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be recoverable. In performing this review, we are required to estimate the fair value of our equity-accounted investments and other equity securities. The determination of the fair value of these investments requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. Other equity securities include our investments in MobiKwik and CPS. These equity securities do not have readily determinable fair values and therefore we have elected to measure these investments at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. If we identify an impairment indicator related to these equity securities, we are required to assess the carrying value of these equity securities against their fair value. We did not identify any impairment indicators during each of fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, and therefore did not recognize any impairment losses related to these equity securities during those years. The determination of the fair value of an investment requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. We are required to base our estimates on assumptions which we believe to be reasonable, but these assumptions may be unpredictable and inherently uncertain. The Company did not identify any observable transactions during the year ended June 30, 2022, and therefore there was no change in the fair value of MobiKwik during the year. During the year ended June 30, 2021, MobiKwik entered into a number of separate agreements with new shareholders to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional shares. Specifically, we used the following transactions as the basis for our fair value adjustments to our investment in MobiKwik during the year ended June 30, 2021: (i) in early November 2020, $135.54 per share; (ii) in March 2021, $170.33 per share; and (iii) in June 2021, $245.50 per share. We considered each of these transactions to be an observable price change in an orderly transaction for similar or identical equity securities issued by MobiKwik. Accordingly, the carrying value of our investment in MobiKwik increased from $27.0 million as of June 30, 2020, to $76.3 million as of June 30, 2021. The change in the fair value of MobiKwik for the year ended June 30, 2021, of $49.3 million, is included in the caption Change in fair value of equity securities in our audited consolidated statement of operations for the year ended June 30, 2021. We did not identify any impairment indicators during fiscal 2022 and therefore did not recognize any impairment losses related to our equity-accounted investments during that year. We performed impairment assessments during fiscal 2021 and 2020, for certain of our equity-accounted investments following the identification of certain impairment indicators. The results of our impairment tests during fiscal 2021 and 2020, resulted in impairments of $21.1 million and $33.8 million, respectively, related to our equity-accounted investments. These impairments are discussed in Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements. For fiscal 2021, in determining the fair value of certain of our equity-accounted investments, we have considered (i) for Finbond specifically, as it is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, its market price as of the impairment assessment date, adjusted for a liquidity discount of 15%, and (ii) the net asset value of the equity-accounted investment being assessed as a proxy of fair value because reasonable cash flow forecasts were not available. For fiscal 2020, in determining the fair value of certain of our equity-accounted investments, we have considered (i) for DNI specifically, the fair value of consideration received on April 1, 2020, adjusted for the accumulated foreign currency translation reserve, (ii) dividend discount models based on projected cash flows, adjusted for identified risks, (iii) various multiples applicable to peer and industry comparables of certain of our equity-accounted investments, and (iv) the net asset value of the equity-accounted investment being assessed as a proxy of fair value because reasonable cash flow forecasts were not available. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. The fair value of our investment in Finbond is sensitive to movements in its market price, which is quoted in ZAR, because we use the market price as the basis of our valuation. Deferred Taxation We estimate our tax liability through the calculations done for the determination of our current tax liability, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which are disclosed on our balance sheet. Management then has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the foreseeable future. A valuation allowance is created if it is determined that a deferred tax asset will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Any change to the valuation allowance would be charged or credited to income in the period such determination is made. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and practicable tax planning strategies are considered. During fiscal 2022, we recorded a net decrease of $1.7 million, to our valuation allowance, and during fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, we recorded a net increase of $1.5 million and $13.4 million. As of June 30, 2022 and 2021, the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets was $117.1 million and $118.8 million, respectively. 32 Stock-based Compensation Management is required to make estimates and assumptions related to our valuation and recording of stock-based compensation charges under current accounting standards. These standards require all share-based compensation to employees to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their respective grant date fair values over the requisite service periods and also requires an estimation of forfeitures when calculating compensation expense. We utilize the Cox Ross Rubinstein binomial model to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. We have also utilized a bespoke adjusted Monte Carlo simulation discounted cash flow model to measure the fair value of restricted stock with market conditions granted to employees and directors. The stock-based compensation cost related to these valuations has been recognized on a straight-line basis. These valuation models require estimates of a number of key valuation inputs including expected volatility, expected dividend yield, expected term and risk-free interest rate. Our management has estimated forfeitures based on historic employee behavior under similar compensation plans. The fair value of stock options is affected by the assumptions selected. The fair value calculation is especially sensitive to our valuation assumption with respect to expected volatility. For instance, a 5% increase (to 55%) or decrease (to 45%) in the expected volatility used (of 50%) to value stock options granted in February 2022, would result in a charge that was 9% higher (if 55% were used) or 9% lower (if 45% were used). Net stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations was $3.0 million, $0.3 million and $1.7 million for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable related to our Consumer and Merchant segments with respect to sales or rental of hardware, support and maintenance services provided; or sale of licenses to customers; or the provision of transaction processing services to our customers. Our policy is to regularly review the aging of outstanding amounts due from customers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of the amounts outstanding. Management considers factors including period outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers, past payment history and the results of discussions by our credit department (and in some cases including our sales and finance teams) with the customer. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. Additional provisions may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. Judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these receivables, including ongoing evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. Lending Consumer microlending We maintain an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable related to our Consumer services segment with respect to short-term loans to qualifying customers. Our policy is to regularly review the ageing of outstanding amounts due from borrowers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of finance loans receivable. We write off microlending loans and related service fees if a borrower is in arrears with repayments for more than three months or dies. Credit bureau checks as well as an affordability test are conducted as part of the origination process, both of which being in line with local regulations. We consider this policy to be appropriate because the affordability test we perform takes into account a variety of factors such as other debts and total expenditures on normal household and lifestyle expenses. Additional allowances may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorates in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these finance loan receivables, including ongoing evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. Merchant lending We maintain an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable related to our Merchant services segment with respect to short-term loans to qualifying merchant customers. Our policy is to regularly review the ageing of outstanding amounts due from these merchants and an allowance is created for the full amount outstanding if the customer is in arrears for more than 15 days. We write off loans and related interest and fees when it is evident that reasonable recovery procedures, including where deemed necessary, formal legal action, have failed. Our risk management procedures include adhering to our proprietary lending criteria which uses an online-system loan application process, obtaining necessary customer transaction-history data and credit bureau checks. We consider these procedures to be appropriate because it takes into account a variety of factors such as the customers credit capacity and customer-specific risk factors when originating a loan. 33 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements adopted Refer to Note 2 of our audited consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2022 Refer to Note 2 of our audited consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2022, including the expected dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Currency Exchange Rate Information Actual exchange rates The actual exchange rates for and at the end of the periods presented were as follows: Table 1 June 30, 2022 2021 2020 ZAR : $ average exchange rate 15.2154 15.4146 15.6775 Highest ZAR : $ rate during period 16.2968 17.6866 19.0569 Lowest ZAR : $ rate during period 14.1630 13.4327 13.8973 Rate at end of period 16.2903 14.3010 17.3326 34 Translation Exchange Rates We are required to translate our results of operations from ZAR to U.S. dollars on a monthly basis. Thus, the average rates used to translate this data for the years ended June 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020 , vary slightly from the averages shown in the table above. The translation rates we use in presenting our results of operations are the rates shown in the following table: Table 2 June 30, 2022 2021 2020 Income and expense items: $1 = ZAR 15.1978 15.7162 17.5686 Balance sheet items: $1 = ZAR 16.2903 14.3010 17.3326 Results of operations The discussion of our consolidated overall results of operations is based on amounts as reflected in our audited consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We analyze our results of operations both in U.S. dollars, as presented in the audited consolidated financial statements, and supplementally in ZAR, because ZAR is the functional currency of the entities which contribute the majority of our results and is the currency in which the majority of our transactions are initially incurred and measured. Due to the significant impact of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and ZAR on our reported results and because we use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency, we believe that the supplemental presentation of our results of operations in ZAR is useful to investors to understand the changes in the underlying trends of our business. During November 2021, our chief operating decision maker changed the Companys operating and internal reporting structures following the establishment of a new management team and the Companys decision to focus primarily on the South African market. The chief operating decision maker decided to analyze our operating performance primarily based on operational lines which group financial services provided to customers (consumers) into the Consumer operating segment and goods and services provided to corporate and other juristic entities into the Merchant operating segment. Refer to Note 21 in our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. Our operating segment revenue presented in Results of operations by operating segment represents total revenue per operating segment before intercompany eliminations. A reconciliation between total operating segment revenue and revenue presented in our audited consolidated financial statements is included in Note 21 to those statements. Our chief operating decision maker evaluates segment performance based on segment earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted for items mentioned in the next sentence (Segment Adjusted EBITDA). We do not allocate depreciation and amortization, impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, certain lease charges (Lease adjustments), non-recurring items (including gains or losses on disposal of investments, fair value adjustments to equity securities, fair value adjustments to currency options), interest income, interest expense, income tax expense or loss from equity-accounted investments to our reportable segments. The Lease adjustments reflect lease charges excluded from the calculation of Segment Adjusted EBITDA and are therefore reported as a reconciling item to reconcile the reportable segments Segment Adjusted EBITDA to the Companys loss before income tax expense. A reconciliation of this Segment Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss) before income tax is included in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements. Unless otherwise stated, reference to EBITDA in the discussion below relates to Segment Adjusted EBITDA. Fiscal 2022 includes consolidation of Connect from April 14, 2022. We deconsolidated CPS from June 1, 2020 and its results are excluded from that date. We disposed of our South Korean operation in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 and it has been presented as a discontinued operation for fiscal 2020. We used the equity method to account for DNI in fiscal 2020. We disposed of FIHRST during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and its contribution to our reported results is excluded from December 1, 2019. Refer also to Note 3, Note 9 and Note 24 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these transactions. We analyze our business and operations in terms of three inter-related but independent operating segments: (1) Consumer, (2) Merchant and (3) Other. In addition, corporate and corporate office activities that are impracticable to ascribe directly to any of the other operating segments, as well as any inter-segment eliminations, are included in Corporate/Eliminations. 35 Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 The following factors had a significant influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2022 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Higher revenue: Our revenues increased 65% in ZAR, primarily due to the contribution from Connect, an increase in hardware sales, an increase in merchant transaction processing fees, and a moderate increase in lending and insurance revenues; Lower operating losses: Operating losses decreased, delivering an improvement of 28% in ZAR compared with the prior period primarily due to the positive contribution from Connect, the closure of the loss-making IPG operations and the implementation of various cost reduction initiatives in our Consumer business, which was partially offset by an increase in acquisition related intangible asset amortization and transaction costs. During fiscal 2022, we recorded a reorganization charge of $5.9 million related to the retrenchment process we commenced in January 2022; Significant transaction costs: We expensed $6.0 million of transaction costs related to the Connect acquisition; and Foreign exchange movements: The U.S. dollar was 3% stronger against the ZAR during fiscal 2022, which impacted our reported results. Consolidated overall results of operations This discussion is based on the amounts prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: Table 3 In U.S. Dollars Year ended June 30, 2022 2021 $ % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 222,609 130,786 70% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 168,317 96,248 75% Selling, general and administration 74,993 84,063 (11%) Depreciation and amortization 7,575 4,347 74% Reorganization costs 5,894 - nm Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition 6,025 - nm Operating loss (40,195) (53,872) (25%) Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options 3,691 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 376 13 2,792% Gain on disposal of equity securities 720 - nm Change in fair value of equity securities - 49,304 nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment - Bank Frick - 472 nm Interest income 2,089 2,416 (14%) Interest expense 5,829 2,982 95% Loss before income tax expense (39,900) (5,619) 610% Income tax expense 327 7,560 (96%) Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (40,227) (13,179) 205% Loss from equity-accounted investments (3,649) (24,878) (85%) Net loss attributable to us (43,876) (38,057) 15% 36 Table 4 In South African Rand Year ended June 30, 2022 2021 ZAR % ZAR 000 ZAR 000 change Revenue 3,383,166 2,055,459 65% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 2,558,047 1,512,653 69% Selling, general and administration 1,139,728 1,321,151 (14%) Depreciation and amortization 115,123 68,318 69% Reorganization costs 89,576 - nm Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition 91,567 - nm Operating loss (610,875) (846,663) (28%) Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options 56,095 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 5,714 204 2,701% Gain on disposal of equity securities 10,942 - nm Change in fair value of equity securities - 774,872 nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment - Bank Frick - 7,418 nm Interest income 31,748 37,970 (16%) Interest expense 88,587 46,866 89% Loss before income tax expense (606,391) (88,309) 587% Income tax expense 4,970 118,814 (96%) Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (611,361) (207,123) 195% Loss from equity-accounted investments (55,457) (390,988) (86%) Net loss attributable to us (666,818) (598,111) 11% The increase in revenue was primarily due to the inclusion of Connect, which has substantial low margin prepaid airtime sales in addition to its core processing revenue, an increase in hardware sales, an increase in merchant transaction processing fees, and moderate increases in lending and insurance revenues. The increase in cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support was primarily due to the inclusion of Connect, an increase in the cost of hardware sales, higher costs related to transaction fees and an increase in insurance-related claims experience, which were partially offset by the benefits of various cost reduction initiatives in our Consumer business. In ZAR, the decrease in selling, general and administration expenses was primarily due to lower IPG-related expenses incurred following its closure, some benefits from our cost reduction initiatives, as well as a recalibration, in June 2022, of our allowance for doubtful microlending finance loans receivable, in our Consumer business, from 10% of the lending book outstanding to 6.5% of the lending book, which resulted in a release from the allowance in fiscal 2022. These reductions were partially offset by the inclusion of expenses related to Connects operations, higher employee-related expenses related to the expansion of our senior management team, and the year-over-year impact of inflationary increases on employee-related expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense increased in fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 due to the inclusion of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization related to intangible assets identified pursuant to the Connect acquisition, as well as the inclusion of depreciation expense related to Connects property, plant and equipment. We embarked on a retrenchment process on January 10, 2022, and incurred reorganization expenses of $5.9 million during fiscal 2022. Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition includes fees paid to external service providers associated with the contract drafting and negotiations; corporate finance advisory services; legal, financial and tax due diligence activities performed; warranty and indemnity insurance related to the transaction; and other advisory services procured; as well as our portion of the fees paid to competition authorities related to the regulatory filings made in various jurisdictions. Our operating loss margin in fiscal 2022 and 2021 was (18.1%) and (41.2%), respectively. Adjusting for the restructuring and transaction costs incurred, the underlying operating loss margin in fiscal 2022 was (12.7%). We discuss the components of operating loss margin under Results of operations by operating segment. The change in fair value of equity securities during fiscal 2021 represents a non-cash fair value adjustment gain related to MobiKwik. We continue to carry our investment in Cell C at $0 (zero). Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for the methodology and inputs used in the fair value calculation for MobiKwik and Note 6 for the methodology and inputs used in the fair value calculation for Cell C. 37 Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options represents the realized gain related to foreign exchange option contracts entered into in November 2021 in order to manage the risk of currency volatility and to fix the USD amount to be utilized for part of the Connect purchase consideration settlement. The foreign exchange option contracts matured on February 24, 2022. Refer to Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these currency options. We recorded a gain of $0.7 million related to the disposal of our entire interest in an equity security during fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this gain. We recorded a loss of $0.4 million related to the disposal of a minor portion of our investment in Finbond during fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these disposals. We recorded a loss of $0.5 million related to the disposal of Bank Frick during fiscal 2021. Interest on surplus cash decreased to $2.1 million (ZAR 31.7 million) from $2.4 million (ZAR 38.0 million), primarily due to the utilization of a significant portion of our surplus cash reserves to acquire Connect as well as lower average daily cash balances in fiscal 2022. Interest expense increased to $5.8 million (ZAR 88.6 million) from $3.0 million (ZAR 46.9 million), primarily as a result of additional interest expense incurred related to borrowings obtained to partially fund the acquisition of Connect, interest expenses incurred in Connect to fund our cash management, digitization and VAS offerings, and a higher utilization of our facilities to fund our ATMs. Fiscal 2022 tax expense was $0.3 million (ZAR 5.0 million) compared to $7.6 million (ZAR 118.8 million) in fiscal 2021. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was impacted by the tax expense recorded by our profitable South African operations, a deferred tax benefit related to acquisition-related intangible asset amortization, non-deductible expenses (including transaction expenses related to the acquisition of Connect), the on-going losses incurred by certain of our South African businesses and the associated valuation allowances created related to the deferred tax assets recognized regarding net operating losses incurred by these entities. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was impacted by the tax effect on the change in the fair value of our equity securities, which is at a lower tax rate than the South African statutory rate, the tax charge related to our profitable South African operations, non-deductible expenses, the on-going losses incurred by certain of our South African businesses and the associated valuation allowances created related to the deferred tax assets recognized regarding net operating losses incurred by these entities, which was partially offset by the reversal of the deferred tax liability related to one of our equity-accounted investments following its impairment. The disposal of certain of our equity-accounted investments in fiscal 2021 and 2020, as well as a number of impairments, has impacted the comparability of our loss from equity-accounted investments. We disposed of our investment in Bank Frick in fiscal 2021. The largest impairment recorded in fiscal 2021 related to our investment in Finbond following a slow-down in its business activity and lower listed share price. Refer to Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our equity-accounted investments, including disclosure regarding the disposals and impairments. Finbond is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and reports its six-month results during our first half and its annual results during our fourth quarter. The table below presents the relative loss from our equity accounted investments: Table 5 Year ended June 30, 2022 2021 $ % $ 000 $ 000 change Finbond (3,665) (22,009) (83%) Share of net (loss) income (3,665) (4,359) (16%) Impairment - (17,650) nm Bank Frick - 1,156 nm Share of net income - 1,156 nm Other 16 (4,025) nm Share of net income (loss) 16 (531) nm Impairment - (3,494) nm Total loss from equity-accounted investment (3,649) (24,878) (85%) 38 Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating (loss) income are illustrated below: Table 6 In U.S. Dollars Year ended June 30, 2022 % of 2021 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Revenue: Consumer 65,932 30% 66,149 51% (0%) Merchant 155,366 70% 61,478 47% 153% Other 1,695 1% 3,318 3% (49%) Subtotal: Operating segments 222,993 100% 130,945 100% 70% Corporate/Eliminations (384) - (159) - 142% Consolidated revenue 222,609 100% 130,786 100% 70% Segment Adjusted EBITDA: Consumer (22,232) 78% (26,303) 58% (15%) Merchant 11,305 (39%) 4,728 (10%) 139% Other 503 (2%) (10,374) 23% nm Total Segment Adjusted EBITDA (10,424) 36% (31,949) 70% (67%) Corporate/eliminations (18,241) 64% (13,428) 30% 36% Subtotal (28,665) 100% (45,377) 100% (37%) Less: Lease adjustments 3,955 4,148 (5%) Less: Depreciation and amortization 7,575 4,347 74% Total consolidated operating loss (40,195) (53,872) (25%) Table 7 In South African Rand Year ended June 30, 2022 % of 2021 % of % Operating Segment ZAR 000 total ZAR 000 total change Revenue: Consumer 1,002,021 30% 1,039,611 51% (4%) Merchant 2,361,221 70% 966,201 47% 144% Other 25,760 1% 52,146 3% (51%) Subtotal: Operating segments 3,389,002 100% 2,057,958 100% 65% Corporate/Eliminations (5,836) - (2,499) - 134% Consolidated revenue 3,383,166 100% 2,055,459 100% 65% Segment Adjusted EBITDA: Consumer (337,877) 78% (413,383) 58% (18%) Merchant 171,811 (39%) 74,306 (10%) 131% Other 7,644 (2%) (163,040) 23% nm Total Segment Adjusted EBITDA (158,422) 36% (502,117) 70% (68%) Corporate/eliminations (277,223) 64% (211,037) 30% 31% Subtotal (435,645) 100% (713,154) 100% (39%) Less: Lease adjustments 60,107 65,191 (8%) Less: Depreciation and amortization 115,123 68,318 69% Total consolidated operating loss (610,875) (846,663) (28%) Consumer The underlying decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower processing fees, partially offset by higher insurance and lending revenue and account holder fees. We embarked on a retrenchment process during the third quarter of fiscal 2022 and recorded an expense of $5.9 million which is included in the Segment EBITDA loss, refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this process. Segment EBITDA loss, excluding the reorganization charge, has decreased primarily due to the implementation of various cost reduction initiatives and a recalibration, in June 2022, of our allowance for doubtful microlending finance loans receivable from 10% of the lending book outstanding to 6.5% of the lending book, which resulted in a release from the allowance in fiscal 2022, which decreases were partially offset by an increase in insurance-related claims experience. 39 Our EBITDA loss margin in fiscal 2022 and 2021 was (33.7%) and (39.8%), respectively. After adjusting for the reorganization charge our fiscal 2022 EBITDA loss margin was (24.8%). Merchant Segment revenue increased due to the inclusion of Connect for two and a half months and an increase in hardware sales and processing fees. The increase in segment EBITDA is primarily due to the inclusion of Connect, which was partially offset by higher costs related to processing fees and higher employee-related expenses. Connect records a significant proportion of its airtime sales in revenue and cost of sales, while only earning a relatively small margin. This depresses the EBITDA margins shown by the business. Our EBITDA margin in fiscal 2022 and 2021 was 7.3% and 7.7%, respectively. Other Segment revenue decreased due to lower revenue following the closure of IPG in fiscal 2021. We recorded an EBITDA contribution during fiscal 2022 following the closure of our loss-making activities performed through IPG. Our EBITDA (loss) margin for the Other segment was 29.7% and (312.7%) during fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Corporate/ Eliminations Our corporate expenses generally include acquisition-related intangible asset amortization; expenses incurred related to corporate actions; expenditures related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; non-employee directors fees; certain employee and executive bonuses; stock-based compensation; legal fees; audit fees; directors and officers insurance premiums; elimination entries; and from fiscal 2022 our group CEOs compensation. Our corporate expenses for fiscal 2022 increased compared with fiscal 2021 primarily due to transaction related expenses of $6.0 million (ZAR 91.6 million) related to Connect, legacy processing adjustments of $1.6 million (ZAR 25.7 million), and significantly higher stock-based compensation charges due to the expansion of our senior management team. The legacy processing adjustments represents amounts we identified during the current fiscal quarter related to prior periods that are payable to third parties. Fiscal 2021 corporate expenses included an allowance on doubtful loans receivable from equity-accounted investments of $3.7 million. Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 The following factors had a significant influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2021 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Lower revenue: Our revenues decreased 19% in ZAR primarily due to fewer prepaid airtime and hardware sales and lower transaction and account fee revenue, which was partially offset by modestly higher lending and insurance revenue; Ongoing operating losses: Operating costs were largely in line with the prior period in ZAR due to the largely fixed cost nature of the cost base. As a result, we continue to experience operating losses because of depressed revenues; Non-cash increase in fair value of MobiKwik: We recorded a non-cash fair value gain during fiscal 2021 of $49.3 million related to the change in fair value of MobiKwik; and Foreign exchange movements: The U.S. dollar was 11% weaker against the ZAR during fiscal 2021, which impacted our reported results. 40 The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: Table 8 In U.S. Dollars Year ended June 30, 2021 2020 (1) $ % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 130,786 144,299 (9%) Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 96,248 102,308 (6%) Selling, general and administration 84,063 75,256 12% Depreciation and amortization 4,347 4,647 (6%) Impairment loss - 6,336 nm Operating loss (53,872) (44,248) 22% Change in fair value of equity securities 49,304 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 13 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment - Bank Frick 472 - nm Gain on disposal of FIHRST - 9,743 nm Loss on disposal of DNI - 1,010 nm Loss on deconsolidation of CPS - 7,148 nm Interest income 2,416 2,805 (14%) Interest expense 2,982 7,641 (61%) Loss before income tax expense (5,619) (65,016) (91%) Income tax expense 7,560 2,656 185% Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (13,179) (67,672) (81%) Loss from equity-accounted investments (24,878) (29,542) (16%) Net loss from continuing operations (38,057) (97,214) (61%) Net income from discontinued operations - 6,402 nm Gain from disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax - 12,454 nm Net loss attributable to us (38,057) (78,358) (51%) Continuing (38,057) (97,214) (61%) Discontinued - 18,856 nm (1) Refer to Note 24 to the audited consolidated financial statements for discontinued operations disclosures. 41 Table 9 In South African Rand (US GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2021 2020 (1) ZAR % ZAR 000 ZAR 000 change Revenue 2,055,459 2,535,131 (19%) Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 1,512,653 1,797,408 (16%) Selling, general and administration 1,321,151 1,322,142 (0%) Depreciation and amortization 68,318 81,641 (16%) Impairment loss - 111,315 nm Operating loss (846,663) (777,375) 9% Change in fair value of equity securities 774,872 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 204 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment - Bank Frick 7,418 - nm Gain on disposal of FIHRST - 171,171 nm Loss on disposal of DNI - 17,744 nm Loss on deconsolidation of CPS - 125,580 nm Interest income 37,970 49,280 (23%) Interest expense 46,866 134,242 (65%) Loss before income tax expense (88,309) (1,142,239) (92%) Income tax expense 118,814 46,662 155% Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (207,123) (1,188,901) (83%) Loss from equity-accounted investments (390,988) (519,012) (25%) Net loss from continuing operations (598,111) (1,707,913) (65%) Net income from discontinued operations - 112,474 nm Gain from disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax - 218,799 nm Net loss attributable to us (598,111) (1,376,640) (57%) Continuing (598,111) (1,707,913) (65%) Discontinued - 331,273 nm (1) Refer to Note 24 to the audited consolidated financial statements for discontinued operations disclosures. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to fewer prepaid airtime and hardware sales and lower transaction and account fee revenue, which was partially offset by modestly higher lending and insurance revenue. The decrease in cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support was primarily due to lower cost of prepaid airtime sales, which was partially offset by higher costs related to transaction fees and an increase in insurance-related claims experience. In ZAR, the decrease in selling, general and administration expense was primarily due to the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar on U.S. dollar-denominated expenses measured in ZAR and lower stock-based compensation charges, which was partially offset by the year-over-year impact of inflationary increases on employee-related expenses, and allowances for doubtful loans receivable from equity-accounted investments created during fiscal 2021. Depreciation and amortization decreased primarily due to lower overall depreciation related to tangible assets that were fully depreciated during fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2020, we recorded an impairment loss of $5.6 million related to the impairment of a portion of our EasyPay business units allocated goodwill and a $0.7 million impairment loss related to our Maltese e-money license. Refer to Note 10 of our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these impairment losses. Our operating loss margin for fiscal 2021 and 2020 was (41.2%) and (30.7%), respectively. We discuss the components of operating (loss) income margin under Results of operations by operating segment. The change in fair value of equity securities during fiscal 2021 represents a non-cash fair value gain related to MobiKwik. There was no change in the fair value of equity securities during fiscal 2020. We continue to carry our investment in Cell C at $0 (zero). Refer to Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the methodology and inputs used in the fair value calculation for MobiKwik and Note 6 for the methodology and inputs used in the fair value calculation for Cell C. We recorded a loss of $0.5 million related to the disposal of Bank Frick during fiscal 2021, refer to Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this transaction. 42 We recorded a gain of $9.7 million related to the disposal of FIHRST during fiscal 2020, which was partially offset by a $1.0 million loss on the disposal of our remaining interest in DNI and a $7.1 million loss on the deconsolidation of CPS. We also paid a termination fee of $17.5 million in respect of our decision not to exercise our option to acquire control of Bank Frick Interest on surplus cash decreased to $2.4 million (ZAR 38.0 million) from $2.8 million (ZAR 49.3 million), due primarily to the higher average daily cash balances following the increase in our cash reserves as a result of the disposal of certain business in fiscal 2020, which was more than offset by lower rates of interest earned on surplus cash. Interest expense decreased to $3.0 million (ZAR 46.9) million from $7.6 million (ZAR 134.2 million), primarily as a result of lower borrowings, a reduction in South African interest rates and lower utilization of our ATM facilities because we used our cash reserves to fund our ATMs. Fiscal 2021 tax expense was $7.6 million (ZAR 118.8 million) compared to $2.7 million (ZAR 46.7 million) in fiscal 2020. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was impacted by the tax effect on the change in the fair value of our equity securities, which is at a lower tax rate than the South African statutory rate, the tax charge related to our profitable South African operations, non-deductible expenses, the on-going losses incurred by certain of our South African businesses and the associated valuation allowances created related to the deferred tax assets recognized regarding net operating losses incurred by these entities, which was partially offset by the reversal of the deferred tax liability related to one of our equity-accounted investments following its impairment. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2020, was impacted by the tax-neutral disposals of FIHRST and DNI, the tax-neutral deconsolidation of CPS, non-deductible impairment losses, the option termination fee paid, the ongoing losses incurred by IPG and certain of our South African businesses and the associated valuation allowances created related to the deferred tax assets recognized regarding those net operating losses, other non-deductible expenses, including certain corporate transactions-related expenditure, and the tax expense recorded by our profitable businesses, primarily in South Africa. The disposal of certain of our equity-accounted investments in the fiscal 2021 and 2020, as well as a number of impairments, has impacted the comparability of our loss from equity-accounted investments. We disposed of our investment in Bank Frick in fiscal 2021 and disposed of our investment in DNI in fiscal 2020. The largest impairment recorded in fiscal 2021 related to our investment in Finbond following a slow-down in its business activity and lower listed share price. The largest impairment recorded in fiscal 2020 related to our investment in Bank Frick following our decision not to exercise our option to take control of the bank. Refer to Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our equity-accounted investments, including disclosure regarding the disposals and impairments. Finbond is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and reports its six-month results during our first half and its annual results during our fourth quarter. The table below presents the relative loss (earnings) from our equity accounted investments: Table 10 Year ended June 30, 2021 2020 $ 000 $ 000 $ % change Finbond (22,009) 1,840 nm Share of net (loss) income (4,359) 1,840 nm Impairment (17,650) nm Bank Frick 1,156 (17,273) nm Share of net income 1,156 1,421 (19%) Amortization of intangible assets, net of deferred tax - (433) nm Impairment - (18,261) nm DNI - (9,744) nm Share of net income - 4,676 nm Amortization of intangible assets, net of deferred tax - (1,350) nm Impairment - (13,070) nm Other (4,025) (4,365) (8%) Share of net loss (531) (1,865) (72%) Impairment (3,494) (2,500) 40% Total loss from equity-accounted investments (24,878) (29,542) (16%) 43 Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating income are illustrated below: Table 11 In U.S. Dollars Year ended June 30, 2021 % of 2020 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Revenue: Consumer 66,149 51% 70,998 49% (7%) Merchant 61,478 47% 68,659 48% (10%) Other 3,318 3% 5,041 3% (34%) Subtotal: Operating segments 130,945 101% 144,698 100% (10%) Corporate/Eliminations (159) (1%) (399) - (60%) Consolidated revenue 130,786 100% 144,299 100% (9%) Segment Adjusted EBITDA: Consumer (26,303) 58% (13,989) 47% 88% Merchant 4,728 (10%) 5,176 (17%) (9%) Other (10,374) 23% (12,015) 41% (14%) Total Segment Adjusted EBITDA (31,949) 71% (20,828) 71% 53% Corporate/eliminations (13,428) 29% (8,773) 29% 53% Subtotal (45,377) 100% (29,601) 100% 53% Less: Lease adjustments 4,148 3,664 13% Less: Depreciation and amortization 4,347 4,647 (6%) Less: Impairments - 6,336 nm Total consolidated operating loss (53,872) (44,248) 22% Table 12 In South African Rand Year ended June 30, 2021 % of 2020 % of % Operating Segment ZAR 000 total ZAR 000 total change Revenue: Consumer 1,039,610 51% 1,247,336 49% (17%) Merchant 966,200 47% 1,206,242 48% (20%) Other 52,147 3% 88,563 3% (41%) Subtotal: Operating segments 2,057,957 100% 2,542,141 100% (19%) Corporate/Eliminations (2,498) - (7,010) - (64%) Consolidated revenue 2,055,459 100% 2,535,131 100% (19%) Segment Adjusted EBITDA: Consumer (413,383) 58% (245,767) 47% 68% Merchant 74,306 (10%) 90,935 (17%) (18%) Other (163,040) 23% (211,087) 41% (23%) Total Segment Adjusted EBITDA (502,117) 70% (365,919) 70% 37% Corporate/eliminations (211,037) 30% (154,129) 30% 37% Subtotal (713,154) 100% (520,048) 100% 37% Less: Lease adjustments 65,191 64,371 1% Less: Depreciation and amortization 68,318 81,641 (16%) Less: Impairments - 111,315 nm Total consolidated operating loss (846,663) (777,375) 9% Consumer Segment revenue decreased due to lower account fee revenue, while lending and insurance revenues were moderately higher compared to the prior period. The segment incurred a higher operating loss compared with fiscal 2020 primarily due to the reduction in account fee revenue as well as higher employee-related costs and an increase in insurance claims experience. Our EBITDA loss margin for fiscal 2021 and 2020 was (39.8%) and (19.7%), respectively. 44 Merchant Segment revenue decreased primarily due to fewer prepaid airtime sales and lower volume-driven processing fees. The reduced revenue had a similar impact on costs resulting in the operating profit from Merchant reducing largely in line with the drop in revenue. The loss for fiscal 2020 includes a $1.3 million inventory write-down related to prepaid airtime inventory. Our EBITDA margin for fiscal 2021 and 2020 was 7.7% and 7.5%, respectively. Other Segment revenue decreased due to lower revenue following the closure of IPG in fiscal 2021. Our EBITDA loss in this segment decreased during fiscal 2021 compared with fiscal 2020 due to the closure of IPG, however, we did incur significant costs in fiscal 2021 to exit these activities. Our EBITDA (loss) margin for the Other segment was (312.7%) and (238.3%) during fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Corporate/ Eliminations Our corporate expenses increased primarily due to allowances for doubtful loans receivable from equity-accounted investments created during fiscal 2021 of $3.7 million, higher legal fees, and foreign exchange losses, which were partially offset by lower audit fees in fiscal 2021 and an unrealized foreign exchange gain recognized in fiscal 2020. Presentation of Quarterly Revenue and Operating (Loss) Income by Segment for Fiscal 2021 and 2020 During the second quarter of fiscal 2022, our chief operating decision maker changed our operating and internal reporting structures following the establishment of a new management team and our decision to focus primarily on the South African market. We have restated previously reported segment information. The tables below present quarterly revenue and operating (loss) income generated by our three reportable segments for fiscal 2021 and 2020, and reconciliations to consolidated revenue and operating (loss) income, as well as the U.S. dollar/ ZAR exchange rates applicable per fiscal quarter and year: Table 13 Fiscal 2021 In United States Dollars Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 F2021 $ '000 $ '000 $ '000 $ '000 $ '000 Consolidated revenue: Consumer 15,372 16,259 16,236 18,282 66,149 Merchant 18,246 15,206 12,171 15,855 61,478 Other 1,556 878 421 463 3,318 Subtotal: Operating segments 35,174 32,343 28,828 34,600 130,945 Corporate/Eliminations (38) (38) - (83) (159) Total consolidated revenue 35,136 32,305 28,828 34,517 130,786 Segment Adjusted EBITDA: Consumer (6,571) (5,214) (7,610) (6,908) (26,303) Merchant 2,971 1,227 273 257 4,728 Other (2,631) (4,339) (3,315) (89) (10,374) Total Segment Adjusted EBITDA (6,231) (8,326) (10,652) (6,740) (31,949) Corporate/eliminations (2,796) (4,743) (1,404) (4,485) (13,428) Subtotal (9,027) (13,069) (12,056) (11,225) (45,377) Less: Lease adjustments 825 1,062 1,104 1,157 4,148 Less: Depreciation and amortization 923 1,074 1,132 1,218 4,347 Total consolidated operating loss (10,775) (15,205) (14,292) (13,600) (53,872) Income and expense items: $1 = ZAR 16.7738 15.4653 14.9575 14.1687 15.7162 45 Table 14 Fiscal 2020 In United States Dollars Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 F2020 $ '000 $ '000 $ '000 $ '000 $ '000 Consolidated revenue: Consumer 21,674 18,618 18,491 12,215 70,998 Merchant 23,564 19,502 14,677 10,916 68,659 Other 1,199 850 1,564 1,428 5,041 Subtotal: Operating segments 46,437 38,970 34,732 24,559 144,698 Corporate/Eliminations (221) (52) (118) (8) (399) Total consolidated revenue 46,216 38,918 34,614 24,551 144,299 Segment Adjusted EBITDA: Consumer (2,784) (2,809) (3,889) (4,507) (13,989) Merchant 2,778 1,471 1,710 (783) 5,176 Other (1,969) (2,979) (3,043) (4,024) (12,015) Total Segment Adjusted EBITDA (1,975) (4,317) (5,222) (9,314) (20,828) Corporate/eliminations (2,304) (3,931) (510) (2,028) (8,773) Subtotal (4,279) (8,248) (5,732) (11,342) (29,601) Less: Lease adjustments 833 998 991 842 3,664 Less: Depreciation and amortization 1,324 1,174 1,153 996 4,647 Less: Impairments - - 6,336 - 6,336 Total consolidated operating loss (6,436) (10,420) (14,212) (13,180) (44,248) Income and expense items: $1 = ZAR 14.7520 14.6022 15.3667 17.2810 17.5686 Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2022, our cash and cash equivalents were $43.9 million and comprised of ZAR-denominated balances of ZAR 0.5 billion ($32.8 million), U.S. dollar-denominated balances of $9.6 million, and other currency deposits, primarily Botswana pula, of $1.5 million, all amounts translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2022. The decrease in our unrestricted cash balances from June 30, 2021 was primarily due to utilization of cash reserves to fund a portion of the Connect purchase consideration that was payable in cash, and to fund our operations and payment of reorganization costs, which was partially offset by the receipt of $11.4 million related to the sale of Bank Frick in fiscal 2021 and a $3.7 million gain on foreign currency options. We generally invest any surplus cash held by our South African operations in overnight call accounts that we maintain at South African banking institutions, and any surplus cash held by our non-South African companies in U.S. dollar-denominated money market accounts. Historically, we have financed most of our operations, research and development, working capital, and capital expenditures, as well as acquisitions and strategic investments, through internally generated cash and our financing facilities. When considering whether to borrow under our financing facilities, we consider the cost of capital, cost of financing, opportunity cost of utilizing surplus cash and availability of tax efficient structures to moderate financing costs. For instance, in fiscal 2022, we obtained loan facilities from RMB to fund a portion of our acquisition of Connect. Following the acquisition of Connect, we now utilize a combination of short and long-term facilities to fund our operating activities and a long-term asset-backed facility to fund the acquisition of POS devices and safe assets. Refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2022, for additional information related to our borrowings. 46 Available short-term borrowings Summarized below are our short-term facilities available and utilized as of June 30, 2022: Table 15 RMB Facility E RMB Indirect RMB Connect Nedbank $ 000 ZAR 000 $ 000 ZAR 000 $ 000 ZAR 000 $ 000 ZAR 000 Total short-term facilities available, comprising: Overdraft - - - - 15,221 247,954 - - Overdraft restricted as to use (1) 85,941 1,400,000 - - - - - - Total overdraft 85,941 1,400,000 - - 15,221 247,954 - - Indirect and derivative facilities (2) - - 8,287 135,000 - - 9,610 156,566 Total short-term facilities available 85,941 1,400,000 8,287 135,000 15,221 247,954 9,610 156,566 Utilized short-term facilities: Overdraft - - - - 14,880 242,399 - - Overdraft restricted as to use (1) 51,338 836,310 - - - - - - Indirect and derivative facilities (2) - - 313 5,097 - - 5,654 92,099 RMB interest rate, based on South African prime rate 8.25% 8.15% (1) Overdraft may only be used to fund ATMs and upon utilization is considered restricted cash. (2) Indirect and derivative facilities may only be used for guarantees, letters of credit and forward exchange contracts to support guarantees issued by RMB and Nedbank to various third parties on our behalf. Long-term borrowings We obtained long-term borrowings of ZAR 1.1 billion to partially fund the acquisition of Connect. In contemplation of the Connect transaction, Connect obtained total facilities of ZAR 1.3 billion which were utilized to repay its existing borrowings and to fund a portion of its capital expenditures and to settle obligations under the transaction documents. We also have a long-term borrowing facility, a revolving credit facility, of ZAR 150.0 million which is utilized to fund a portion of our merchant finance loans receivable book. Our total long-term borrowings following the acquisition of Connect are ZAR 2.1 billion, comprising the ZAR 1.0 billion and ZAR 1.1 billion of Connects total facilities of ZAR 1.3 billion. Refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these borrowings. Restricted cash We have credit facilities with RMB in order to access cash to fund our ATMs in South Africa. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash presented in our consolidated statement of cash flows as of June 30, 2022, includes restricted cash of approximately $51.3 million related to cash withdrawn from our debt facility to fund ATMs. This cash may only be used to fund ATMs and is considered restricted as to use and therefore is classified as restricted cash on our consolidated balance sheet. We have also entered into cession and pledge agreements with Nedbank related to our Nedbank credit facilities and we have ceded and pledged certain bank accounts to Nedbank. The funds included in these bank accounts are restricted as they may not be withdrawn without the express permission of Nedbank. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash presented in our consolidated statement of cash flows as of June 30, 2022, includes restricted cash of approximately $9.5 million that has been ceded and pledged. On June 30, 2022, a ZAR 60.0 million bank guarantee issued by Nedbank to a third party expired, and on July 1, 2022 we replaced it with a ZAR 28.0 million bank guarantee issued by RMB to the same third party. In July 2022, we were able to release ZAR 60.0 million in cash held in a pledged bank account with Nedbank which was held as security against the bank guarantee issued by Nedbank, and the ZAR 28.0 million replacement bank guarantee did not require a cash underpin. 47 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash used in operating activities during fiscal 2022 was $37.2 million (ZAR 565.3 million) compared to $58.4 million (ZAR 917.4 million) during fiscal 2021. Excluding the impact of income taxes, our cash used in operating activities during fiscal 2022 was impacted by the cash losses incurred by the majority of our continuing operations, the reorganization costs paid during the third quarter of fiscal 2022, and transactions costs paid related to our acquisition of Connect. In fiscal 2022, we absorbed $5 million into working capital compared to a $4.7 million release from working capital in fiscal 2021. Net cash used in operating activities during fiscal 2021 was $58.4 million (ZAR 917.4 million) compared to $46.0 million (ZAR 723.7 million) generated during fiscal 2020. Excluding the impact of income taxes, our cash used in operating activities during fiscal 2021 was impacted by the cash losses incurred by the majority of our continuing operations and the payment of a $3.6 million settlement (refer to Note 9). Our net cash used in operating activities during fiscal 2020 includes the contribution from our South Korean operations for eight months of $14.6 million (refer to Note 24). During fiscal 2022, we paid our first provisional South African tax payments of $0.6 million (ZAR 9.1 million) related to our 2022 tax year. During fiscal 2022, we also made our second provisional South African tax payments of $0.7 million (ZAR 10.9 million related to our 2021 tax year and received tax refunds of $0.3 million (ZAR (4.5) million). During fiscal 2021, we made our first provisional South African tax payments of $0.9 million (ZAR 12.7 million) related to our 2021 tax year. During fiscal 2021, we also made our second provisional South African tax payments of $0.2 million (ZAR 2.9 million related to our 2021 tax year and made an additional tax payment of $0.2 million (ZAR 3.4 million) related to our 2020 tax year. We also paid taxes totaling $15.4 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily in the U.S. During fiscal 2020, we made our first provisional South African tax payments of $0.8 million (ZAR 11.9 million) related to our 2020 tax year. During fiscal 2020, we also made our second provisional South African tax payments of $0.5 million (ZAR 8.0 million) related to our 2020 tax year and made an additional tax payment of $0.8 million (ZAR 11.6 million) related to our 2019 tax year. We also paid taxes totaling $4.3 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily South Korea. Taxes paid during fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: Table 16 Year ended June 30, 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR 000 000 000 000 000 000 First provisional payments 585 853 825 9,142 12,680 11,934 Second provisional payments 691 209 470 10,929 2,907 8,038 Taxation paid related to prior years 1 205 782 19 3,423 11,620 Tax refund received (300) (13) (1,339) (4,542) (225) (19,245) Total South African taxes paid 977 1,254 738 15,548 18,785 12,347 Foreign taxes paid 161 15,354 4,263 2,482 256,616 62,302 Total tax paid 1,138 16,608 5,001 18,030 275,401 74,649 We expect to make additional provisional income tax payments in South Africa related to our 2022 tax year in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, however, the amount was not quantifiable as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cash flows from investing activities Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2022 included capital expenditures of $4.6 million (ZAR 69.3 million), primarily due to the roll out of our new express branches, acquisitions of ATMs and the acquisition of computer equipment. During fiscal 2022, we paid approximately $202.2 million (ZAR 2.9 billion), net of cash acquired, for 100% of Connect. We also received funds totaling approximately $11.4 million related to the sale of Bank Frick in fiscal 2021, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment of $4.2 million, and proceeds of $0.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively, related to the sale of minor positions in Finbond and from the disposal of our entire interest in Revix in fiscal 2022. During fiscal 2021, we paid approximately $4.3 million (ZAR 67.3 million), primarily for the acquisition of motor vehicles, which largely comprised a fleet of customized mobile ATMs used to deliver a service to rural communities, computer equipment and leasehold improvements in South Africa. In February 2021, we disposed of our investment in Bank Frick and received $18.6 million of the $30.0 million sales proceeds, the remainder of which was expected to be received in fiscal 2022 and 2023. We received $20.1 million in September 2020 related to the sale of our South Korean business in fiscal 2020 following the successful refund application of the amounts withheld and paid to the South Korean tax authorities pursuant to that transaction. We received $6.0 due on the remaining deferred sale proceeds related to the fiscal 2020 sale of DNI. We also extended loan funding of $1.0 million to V2 and $0.2 million to Revix. 48 During fiscal 2020, we paid approximately $5.9 million (ZAR 93.3 million), related to capital expenditures, primarily related to the acquisition of ATMs and computer equipment in South Africa, leasehold improvements in Malta and processing equipment in South Korea to maintain operations. During fiscal 2020, we received a net $192.6 million from the sale of our South Korean business, paid transaction costs related to this disposal of $7.5 million, and received $10.9 million from the sale of FIHRST. We also received $42.5 million related to the sale of the majority of our remaining interest in DNI. We also made a further equity contribution of $2.5 million to V2, extended loan funding of $1.5 million to our equity-accounted investments, and received $4.3 million from DNI related to the settlement of a ZAR 60.0 million loan outstanding as of June 30, 2019. Cash flows from financing activities During fiscal 2022, we utilized approximately $570.9 million from our South African overdraft facilities to fund our ATMs and our cash management business through Connect, and repaid $525.5 million of these facilities. We utilized approximately $78.9 million of our long-term borrowings to fund a portion of the acquisition of Connect, to fund our merchant finance loans receivable business, and to fund the acquisition of certain capital expenditures. We repaid approximately $5.6 million of these long-term borrowings. We also received $0.8 million from the exercise of stock options. During fiscal 2021, we utilized approximately $360.1 million from our South African overdraft facilities to fund our ATMs and repaid $365.4 million of these facilities. During fiscal 2020 , we utilized approximately $672.4 million from our South African overdraft facilities, primarily to fund our ATMs, and repaid $721.0 million of these facilities. We utilized approximately $14.8 million of our borrowings to fund the purchase of Cell C prepaid airtime that was subject to sale restrictions. We repaid the amount in full, paying $14.5 million, with the difference of $0.3 million reflecting the impact of changes in ZAR against the U.S dollar. We also repaid $26.9 million of our Bank Frick overdraft and utilized $17.4 million of this overdraft to fund our operations. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2022: Table 17 Payments due by Period, as of June 30, 2022 (in $ 000s) Total Less than 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years Thereafter Short-term credit facilities (A) 66,218 66,218 - - - Long-term borrowings Principal repayments (A)(B) 141,646 6,804 86,628 48,214 - Interest payments (A)(B) 29,701 10,745 11,964 6,992 - Operating lease liabilities, including imputed interest (C) 9,819 2,896 3,207 1,991 1,725 Purchase obligations 10,998 10,998 - - - Capital commitments 33 33 - - - Other long-term obligations reflected on our balance sheet (D)(E) 2,466 - - - 2,466 Total 260,881 97,694 101,799 57,197 4,191 (A) Refer to Note 12 to our audited consolidated financial statements . (B) Long-term borrowings principal repayments for the 3-5 year period includes all unamortized fees as of June 30, 2022. Interest payments based on applicable interest rates as of June 30, 2022, and expected outstanding long-term borrowings over the period. All amounts converted from ZAR to USD using the June 30, 2022, USD/ ZAR exchange rate. (C) Refer to Note 8 to our audited consolidated financial statements . (D) Includes policyholder liabilities of $2.3 million related to our insurance business. All amounts are translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2022. (E) We have excluded cross-guarantees in the aggregate amount of $5.7 million issued as of June 30, 2022, to RMB and Nedbank to secure guarantees it has issued to third parties on our behalf as the amounts that will be settled in cash are not known and the timing of any payments is uncertain. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. 49 Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures for the years ended June 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR 000 000 000 000 000 000 Consumer 1,712 3,433 2,540 26,019 53,954 39,919 Merchant 2,811 829 1,193 42,721 13,029 18,749 Other 35 23 702 532 361 11,033 Total 4,558 4,285 4,435 69,272 67,344 69,701 Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, are discussed under Liquidity and Capital ResourcesCash flows from investing activities. All of our capital expenditures for the past three fiscal years were funded through internally-generated funds, except for certain capital expenditures of POS devices and safe assets, made by Connect which were funded through the utilization of asset-backed borrowings. We had outstanding capital commitments as of June 30, 2022, of $0.03 million. We expect to fund these expenditures through internally-generated funds. In addition to these capital expenditures, we expect that capital spending for fiscal 2023 will include limited investments into our ATM infrastructure and branch network in South Africa as well as IT equipment, and through Connect, spending for POS devices, safe assets, vehicles, computer and office equipment. These assets will be funded through the use of internally-generated funds and our asset-backed borrowing arrangement. 50