Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCurrency Exchange Rate Information.). Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. Similarly, depreciation in the ZAR may negatively impact the prices at which our stock trades. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging using forward contracts relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in U.S. dollars or euros. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. South Africas high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment, relative to peer countries in Africa and other emerging economies, and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. In addition, South Africa has a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, the impact of which may be exacerbated in the short-term by the discontinuation of the U.S. governments funding of certain HIV/AIDS research and outreach programs. 20 Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees . The economy of South Africa is exposed to high rates of inflation, interest and corporate tax, which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. Furthermore, the South African government requires additional income to fund future government expenditures and may be required, among other things, to increase existing income tax rates, including the corporate income tax rate, amend existing tax legislation or introduce additional taxes. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly-developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. High interest rates increase the cost of our debt financing, though conversely, they also increase the amount of income we earn on any cash balances. The South African corporate income tax rate, of 27%, is higher than the U.S. federal income tax rate, of 21%. Any increase in the effective South African corporate income tax rate would adversely impact our profitability and cash flow generation. Risks Relating to Government Regulation We are required to comply with certain laws and regulations, including economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We are subject to U.S. and other trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign trade control laws and regulations, including various export controls and economic sanctions programs, such as those administered by OFAC. We monitor compliance in accordance with the 10 principles as set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles, the Organisation for Economic Co- operation and Development recommendations relating to corruption, and the International Labor Organization Protocol in terms of certain of the items to be monitored. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating trade control laws as well as sanctions regulations. Violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international trade control laws and regulations, including trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, and provide regular training to our employees to create awareness about the risks of violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations and to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not act in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Any expansion into developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships, could increase the risk of OFAC violations in the future. In addition, our payment processing and financial services activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under the various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We are required to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the FCPA and UK Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate our business, which could adversely impact our future growth. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business, or securing any improper business advantage, and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. The UK Bribery Act includes provisions that extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals not employed by a government and the act is also more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Some of the international locations in which we operate or have investments lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. 21 Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the anti-corruption laws and regulations could subject us to substantial penalties, and the requirement that we comply with these laws could put us at a competitive disadvantage against companies that are not required to comply. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a comm only accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us. Violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S., South African and other international anti-corruption laws and regulations, and provide regular training to our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not have a South African banking license and, therefore, we provide our EPE solution through an arrangement with a third-party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our EPE business without alternate means of access to a banking license. We are also required to comply with the requirements of payment schemes, including VISA and Mastercard. Furthermore, we provide certain of our services under partnerships with South African banks. We will be unable to provide our payments and card-acquiring businesses if we fail to comply with payment scheme rules, and/or fail to maintain certain regulatory licenses and registrations, and/ or if we were unable to continue to partner with South African banks to provide our payments and card acquiring services. The South African retail banking market is highly regulated. Under current law and regulations, our EasyPay Everywhere (EPE) business activities require us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. We are not currently so registered, but we have an agreement with African Bank Limited, that enables us to implement our EPE program in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If this agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate these services unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. Furthermore, we have to comply with the South African Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 and money laundering and terrorist financing control regulations, when we open new bank accounts for our customers and when they transact. Failure to effectively implement and monitor responses to the legislation and regulations may result in significant fines or prosecution of African Bank and ourselves. The South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. EasyPay Insurance was granted a Financial Service Provider (FSP) license on June 9, 2015, and EP FS was granted a FSP license on July 11, 2017. If our FSP licenses are withdrawn or suspended, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa unless we are able to enter into a representative arrangement with a third party FSP. Furthermore, the proposed Conduct of Financial Institutions (COFI) Bill will overhaul the current regulatory and legislative framework by replacing the rules-based approach with an outcomes-driven and principles-based model, and the adoption of an activity- based licensing regime. It will establish a uniform legislative framework to regulate the conduct of all financial institutions across the financial services sector. While the framework will make significant changes, including the conversion of existing licences through transitional arrangements and new activities requiring licensing, it is likely to increase operational costs to meet regulatory expectations. The final draft of the COFI Bill is expected to be tabled before Parliament late 2025 or early 2026 for approval. However, contingencies are in place to ensure smooth transition should the COFI Bill face further delays which will include formal consultations and the phased introduction of the new legislative framework. We are required to comply with the requirements of payment schemes, including VISA and Mastercard. We have deployed a significant number of devices, and any mandatory compliance upgrades to our deployed POS devices would require significant capital expenditures and/or be disruptive to our customer base. Failure to comply with the payment schemes rules may result in significant fines and/or a loss of license to participate in the scheme(s). We provide card acquiring services to our customers by partnering with Nedbank Limited and ABSA Bank Limited, and payment processing services in partnership with the largest banks in South Africa. If these agreements were to be terminated, Adumo would not be able to operate its payment services unless it were able to obtain alternative card acquiring or payment processing agreements with other partners or obtain a direct designation license with the schemes and regulatory bodies. In addition, if we were to lose our Payment Association of South Africa (PASA ) registrations or fail to have them renewed, it would be unable to operate its payment services. 22 Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. Proposed regulatory changes to the national payments system are expected to have a substantial impact on the South African payments industry. It may change the manner in which we conduct business and likely lead to increased operating costs for our business as we work to ensure compliance with the new legislative and regulatory framework, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. On March 3, 2025, the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) published certain draft regulatory documents for commentary that are expected to have a substantial impact on how we conduct our business namely: (i) a draft directive entitled Directive in respect of specific payment activities within the national payment system (the Directive); (ii) a draft exemption notice entitled Designation by the Prudential Authority of specific activities conducted in the national payment system which shall be deemed not to constitute the business of a bank under paragraph (cc) in section 1(1) of the Banks Act, 1990 (the Exemption Notice); and (iii) the National Payment System Bill (NPS Bill), which seeks to replace the existing National Payment System Act, 1998. The proposed regulations were made available for comment, and we submitted detailed comments to our industry body, Association of South African Payment Providers, on the proposed regulations. The key objectives of the proposed regulations are to clarify the mandate and objectives of the SARB with respect to the national payment system (NPS); and establish a robust regulatory, oversight, and supervisory framework for the NPS. The proposed regulations also aim to promote financial inclusion, competition, the prevention of financial crime, and the fair treatment and protection of customers, while introducing an activity-based licensing and authorization regime. In this regard, the Directive defines thirteen payment activities and provides that a person, which can be a bank or a non-bank, providing a payment activity" must obtain authorisation from the SARB to undertake such activity. Under the Exemption Notice, certain payment activities are exempted from the definition of the business of a bank. Prior to the Exemption Notice, these activities could only be undertaken by a bank. Pursuant to the Exemption Notice, these activities can be undertaken by non-banks, subject to certain conditions. Certain of our businesses, including EasyPay Everywhere, Adumo and Kazang Pay, currently undertake activities which would qualify as payment activities under the Directive and the NPS Bill. Under the current regulatory framework, these activities are undertaken in partnership with a sponsoring bank and the sponsoring bank is subject to regulation by the SARB. In other words, the business undertaking the payment activity is not subject to direct regulation with respect to such payment activities. It is uncertain if and when the proposed regulations will enter into effect and whether a non-bank such as the relevant Lesaka subsidiary may elect whether to conduct an exempted payment activity by partnering with a bank to do so, or on its own, if it is authorised by the SARB - i.e. whether both options will be available to a non-bank. Should our businesses be subject to direct regulation under this new regime (i.e., if our current sponsorship model is no longer available), we expect that we will incur significant operating costs to comply with the new requirements, and to obtain authorization with respect thereto. Furthermore, while some requirements may already exist under other current regulatory frameworks for certain of our businesses, we will likely need to invest in additional resources, systems and processes to satisfy the regulatory requirements contemplated in the proposed regulations, which may also lead to increased operational costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to regulations regarding privacy, data use and/or security, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulations in a number of the countries in which we operate relating to the processing (which includes, inter alia , the collection, use, retention, security and transfer) of personal information about the people (whether natural or juristic) who use our products and services. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Amendments to the NCA were signed into law in South Africa in August 2019. Compliance with these amendments may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. In August 2019, the National Credit Amendment Bill, or debt-relief bill, was signed into law in South Africa. The effective date of the debt-relief bill has not yet been announced and has been significantly delayed. We believe that the debt-relief bill will restrict the ability of financial services providers to provide lending products to certain low-income earners and will increase the cost of credit to these consumers. As a result, compliance with the debt -relief bill may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. Furthermore, we expect that it will take us, and other credit providers, some time to fully understand, interpret and implement this new legislation in our lending processes and practices. Non-compliance with the provisions of this new legislation may result in financial loss and penalties, reputational loss or other administrative punishment. 23 Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has periodically experienced significant volatility. During the 2025 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $3.39 to a high of $5.60. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: Any adverse developments in litigation or regulatory actions in which we are involved; Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate; Announcement of additional BEE transactions, especially one involving the issuance or potential issuance of equity securities or dilution or sale of our existing business in South Africa; Quarterly variations in our operating results; Significant fair value adjustments or impairment in respect of investments or intangible assets; Announcements of acquisitions or disposals; The timing of, or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of major projects; Large purchases or sales of our common stock; and General conditions in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, shares of our common stock can be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we have no control. The put right we granted to the IFC Investors on the occurrence of certain triggering events may have adverse impacts on us. In May 2016, we issued an aggregate of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock to the IFC Investors. Certain IFC Investors were also investors in Adumo and on October 1, 2024, we issued an aggregate of 1,989,162 additional shares of our common stock to these IFC Investors pursuant to the Adumo transaction agreement. As of June 30, 2025, the IFC Investors held 9,356,028 shares. We granted the IFC Investors certain rights, including the right to require us to repurchase any share held by the IFC Investors pursuant to the May 2016 and October 2024 transactions upon the occurrence of specified triggering events, which we refer to as a put right. The put price per share will be the higher of the price per share paid to us by the IFC Investors and the volume-weighted average price per share prevailing for the 60 trading days preceding the triggering event, except that with respect to a put right triggered by rejection of a bona fide offer, the put price per share will be the highest price offered by the offeror. If a put triggering event occurs, it could adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, the existence of the put right could also affect whether or on what terms a third party might in the future offer to purchase our company. Our response to any such offer could also be complicated, delayed or otherwise influenced by the existence of the put right. Approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with those of our other shareholders. There is a concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock because approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. Based on their most recent SEC filings disclosing ownership of our shares, Value Capital Partners (Pty) Ltd, or VCP, and IFC Investors, beneficially own approximately 19% and 12% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2025, respectively. The interests of VCP and the IFC Investors may be different from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of the significant combined ownership by VCP and the IFC Investors, they may be able, if they act together, to significantly influence the voting outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, thus depriving shareholders of a premium for their shares, or facilitating a change of control that other shareholders may oppose. We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of shares of our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of such shares. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. We may also wish to raise additional equity funding to reduce the amount of debt funding on our balance sheet. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. 24 Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations, to reduce debt or to acquire other businesses, issue shares in a BEE transaction, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders and any such additional shares would likely be freely tradable, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not timely remediated, may adversely affect the accuracy and reliability of our financial statements, and our reputation, business and stock price, as well as lead to a loss of investor confidence in us. As described under Item 9AControls and Procedures., we concluded that our disclosure