Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCurrency Exchange Rate Information. Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. This difficulty may increase as we expand our business internationally and record additional revenue and expenses in the euro and other currencies. It may also have a negative impact on our stock price. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in U.S. dollars or euros. We have used forward contracts in order to hedge our economic exposure to the ZAR/U.S. dollar and ZAR/euro exchange rate fluctuations from these foreign currency transactions. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. South Africas high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in the rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. In addition, South Africa has a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the electricity supply disruptions in South Africa which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth. Our businesses in South Africa are dependent on electricity generated and supplied by the state-owned utility, Eskom, in order to operate. In recent years, Eskom has been unable to generate and supply the amount of electricity required by South Africans, and the entire country experienced significant and largely unpredictable electricity supply disruptions. Eskom has implemented a number of short- and long-term mitigation plans to correct these issues and the number of supply disruptions decreased during the calendar 2016. As part of our business continuity programs, we have installed back-up diesel generators in order for us to continue to operate our core data processing facilities in Cape Town and Johannesburg in the event of intermittent disruptions to our electricity supply. We have to perform regular monitoring and maintenance of these generators as well as sourcing and managing diesel fuel levels. We may also be required to replace these generators on a more frequent basis due to the additional burden placed on them. Our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth could be adversely affected if Eskom is unable to commission new electricity-generating power stations in accordance with its plans, or at all, or if we are unable to effectively and efficiently test, maintain, source fuel for and replace our generators. 23 The economy of South Africa is exposed to high inflation and interest rates which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest rates that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. Although higher interest rates would increase the amount of income we earn on our cash balances, they would also adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective debt financing in South Africa. South African exchange control regulations could hinder our ability to make foreign investments and obtain foreign-denominated financing. South Africas exchange control regulations restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area, without the prior approval of SARB. While the South African government has relaxed exchange controls in recent years, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measures in the foreseeable future. Although Net1 is a U.S. corporation and is not itself subject to South African exchange control regulations, these regulations do restrict the ability of our South African subsidiaries to raise and deploy capital outside the Common Monetary Area, to borrow money in currencies other than the South African rand and to hold foreign currency. Exchange control restrictions may also affect the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Net1 unless the affected subsidiary can show that any payment of such dividend will not place it in an over-borrowed position. As of June 30, 2016, approximately 34% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our South African subsidiaries. Exchange control regulations could make it difficult for our South African subsidiaries to: (i) export capital from South Africa; (ii) hold foreign currency or incur indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies without the approval of SARB; (iii) acquire an interest in a foreign venture without the approval of SARB and first having complied with the investment criteria of SARB; or (iv) repatriate to South Africa profits of foreign operations. These regulations could also limit our ability to utilize profits of one foreign business to finance operations of a different foreign business. Under current exchange control regulations, SARB approval would be required for any acquisition of our company which would involve payment to our South African shareholders of any consideration other than South African rand. This restriction could limit our management in its ability to consider strategic options and thus, our shareholders may not be able to realize the premium over the current trading price of our shares. Most of South Africas major industries are unionized, and the majority of employees belong to trade unions. We face the risk of disruption from labor disputes and new South African labor laws. Trade unions have had a significant impact on the collective bargaining process as well as on social and political reform in South Africa in general. Although only approximately 1% percent of our South African workforce is unionized and we have not experienced any labor disruptions in recent years, such labor disruptions may occur in the future. In addition, developments in South African labor laws may increase our costs or alter our relationship with our employees and trade unions, which may have an adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our operations. Operating in South Africa and other emerging markets subjects us to greater risks than those we would face if we operated in more developed markets. Emerging markets such as South Africa, as well as some of the other markets into which we have recently begun to expand, including African countries outside South Africa, South America, South and Southeast Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets. While we focus our business primarily on emerging markets because that is where we perceive to be the greatest opportunities to market our products and services successfully, the political, economic and market conditions in many of these markets present risks that could make it more difficult to operate our business successfully. Some of these risks include: - political and economic instability, including higher rates of inflation and currency fluctuations; - high levels of corruption, including bribery of public officials; - loss due to civil strife, acts of war or terrorism, guerrilla activities and insurrection; - a lack of well-developed legal systems which could make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights; - logistical, utilities (including electricity and water supply) and communications challenges; 24 - potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including import and export license requirements and restrictions, tariffs, legal structures and tax laws; - difficulties in staffing and managing operations and ensuring the safety of our employees; - restrictions on the right to convert or repatriate currency or export assets; - greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; - indigenization and empowerment programs; - exposure to liability under the United Kingdoms Bribery Act 2010; and - exposure to liability under U.S. securities and foreign trade laws, including the FCPA, and regulations established by the U.S. Department of Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. Many of these countries and regions are in various stages of developing institutions and political, legal and regulatory systems that are characteristic of democracies. However, institutions in these countries and regions may not yet be as firmly established as they are in democracies in the developed world. Many of these countries and regions are also in the process of transitioning to a market economy and, as a result, are experiencing changes in their economies and their government policies that can affect our investments in these countries and regions. Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the new legal and regulatory regimes in these countries and regions are still being developed and, therefore, existing laws and regulations may be applied inconsistently. In some circumstances, it may not be possible to obtain the legal remedies provided under those laws and regulations in a timely manner. As the political, economic and legal environments remain subject to continuous development, investors in these countries and regions face uncertainty as to the security of their investments. Any unexpected changes in the political or economic conditions in these or neighboring countries or others in the region may have a material adverse effect on the international investments that we have made or may make in the future, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Risks Relating to Government Regulation The South African National Credit Regulator has applied to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd, as a credit provider. If the registration is cancelled, we will not be able to provide UEPS-based loans to our customers, which would harm our business. Moneyline provides microloans to our UEPS/EMV cardholders. Moneyline is a registered credit provider under the South African National Credit Act, or NCA, and is required to comply with the NCA in the operation of its lending business. In September 2014, the South African National Credit Regulator, or NCR, applied to the National Consumer Tribunal to cancel Moneylines registration, based on an investigation concluded by the NCR. The NCR has alleged, among other things, that Moneyline contravened the NCA by including child support grants and foster child grants in the affordability assessments performed by Moneyline prior to granting credit to these borrowers, and that the procedures followed and documentation maintained by Moneyline are not in accordance with the NCA. We believe that Moneyline has conducted its business in compliance with NCA and we are opposing the NCRs application. However, if the NCRs application is successful, Moneyline would be prohibited from operating its microlending business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are required to comply with certain U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA as well as economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We must comply with the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. In addition, OFAC administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the FCPA could subject us to substantial penalties. In addition, the requirement that we comply with the FCPA could put us at a competitive disadvantage with companies that are not required to comply with the FCPA or could otherwise harm our business. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a commonly accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us by foreign officials. Furthermore, the trade sanctions administered and enforced by OFAC target countries which are typically less developed countries. 25 Since less developed countries present some of the best opportunities for us to expand our business internationally, restrictions against entering into transactions with those foreign countries, as well as with certain entities and individuals in those countries, can adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Changes in current South African government regulations relating to social welfare grants could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. We derive a substantial portion of our current business from the distribution of social welfare grants in South Africa and the provision of financial services to social grant recipients. Because social welfare eligibility and grant amounts are regulated by the South African government, any changes to or reinterpretations of the government regulations relating to social welfare may result in the non-renewal or reduction of grants for certain individuals, or a determination that currently eligible social welfare grant recipient cardholders are no longer eligible. If any of these changes were to occur, the number of grants we distribute could decrease which could result in a reduction of our revenue and cash flows. We do not have a South African banking license and, therefore, we provide our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere solution through an arrangement with a third-party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere business without alternate means of access to a banking license. The South African retail banking market is highly regulated. Under current law and regulations, our South African social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere business activities requires us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. We are not currently so registered, but we have entered into an agreement with Grindrod that enables us to implement our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere solution in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If the agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate these services unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. We are also dependent on Grindrod to defend us against attacks from the other South African banks who may regard the rapid market acceptance of our UEPS/EMV product with biometric verification as disruptive to their funds transfer or other businesses and may seek governmental or other regulatory intervention. Furthermore, we have to comply with the strict anti-money laundering and customer identification regulations of the SARB when we open new bank accounts for our customers and when they transact. Failure to effectively implement and monitor these regulations may result in significant fines or prosecution of Grindrod and ourselves. In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. Smart Life was granted an Authorized Financial Service Provider, or FSP, license on June 9, 2015. We are in the process of applying for several other FSP licenses under this Act in order to sell other financial products as a registered FSP. If our status as juristic representative were to be cancelled and if we fail to obtain our own license, we may be stopped from continuing this part of our business in South Africa. Our payment processing businesses are subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements. Our payment processing activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We may be subject to regulations regarding privacy, data use and/or security which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulations in a number of the countries in which we operate relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about the people who use our products and services, in particular, know your customer, personal financial and health information. New laws in this area have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 26 Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has experienced recent significant volatility. During the 2016 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $8.44 to a high of $21.48. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: - any adverse developments in litigation or regulatory actions in which we are involved; - fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate; - announcement of additional BEE transactions, especially one involving the issuance or potential issuance of equity securities or dilution or sale of our existing business in South Africa; - quarterly variations in our operating results, especially if our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors; - announcements of acquisitions, disposals or impairments of intangible assets; - the timing of or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of major projects; - large purchases or sales of our common stock; - general conditions in the markets in which we operate; and - economic and financial conditions. The put right we have agreed to grant to the IFC Investors on the occurrence of certain triggering events may have adverse impacts on us. In May 2016, we issued an aggregate of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock to the IFC Investors. We also entered into a policy agreement with the IFC Investors which grants the IFC Investors certain rights, including the right to require us to repurchase any shares we have sold to the IFC Investors upon the occurrence of specified triggering events, which we refer to as a put right. Events triggering the put right relate to (1) us being the subject of a governmental complaint alleging, a court judgment finding or an indictment alleging that we (a) engaged in specified corrupt, fraudulent, coercive, collusive or obstructive practices; (b) entered into transactions with targets of economic sanctions; or (c) failed to operate our business in compliance with anti-money laundering or anti-terrorism laws; or (2) we reject a bona fide offer to acquire all of our outstanding shares at a time when we have in place or implement a shareholder rights plan, or adopt a shareholder rights plan triggered by a beneficial ownership threshold of less than twenty percent. The put price per share will be the higher of the price per share paid to us by the IFC Investors and the volume-weighted average price per share prevailing for the 60 trading days preceding the triggering event, except that with respect a put right triggered by rejection of a bona fide offer, the put price per share will be the highest price offered by the offeror. If a put triggering event occurs, it could adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, the existence of the put right could also affect whether or on what terms a third party might in the future offer to purchase our company. Our response to any such offer could also be complicated, delayed or otherwise influenced by the existence of the put right. A majority of our common stock is beneficially owned by a small number of shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with those of our other shareholders. There is a concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock because approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock is owned by three shareholders. Based on their most recent SEC filings disclosing ownership of our shares, IFC Investors, Allan Gray Proprietary Limited, and International Value Advisers, LLC, or IVA, beneficially owned approximately 18%, 16% and 13% of our outstanding common stock, respectively. The interests of the IFC Investors, Allan Gray and IVA, may be different from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of the ownership by the IFC Investors, Allan Gray and IVA, they will be able, if they act together, to significantly influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, thus depriving shareholders of a premium for their shares, or facilitating a change of control that other shareholders may oppose. 27 We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations or acquisitions as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies, to expand into new markets and to make acquisitions, all of which may be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations or to acquire other businesses, issue shares in a BEE transaction, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders. In addition, additional shares that we issue would likely be freely tradable which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, especially over companies that we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, we are required to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal controls also applies to companies that we acquire. Some of these companies may not be required to comply with Sarbanes prior to the time we acquire them. The integration of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting could require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. If we fail to successfully integrate the operations of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the markets perception of our business and our stock price. 28 You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws, against us or our directors and officers and experts. While Net1 is incorporated in the state of Florida, United States, the company is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa and substantially all of the companys assets are located outside the United States. In addition, all of Net1s directors and officers reside outside of the United States and our experts, including our independent registered public accountants, are based in South Africa. As a result, even though you could effect service of legal process upon Net1, as a Florida corporation, in the United States, you may not be able to collect any judgment obtained against Net1 in the United States, including any judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, because substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process upon the majority of our directors and officers or upon our experts within the United States or elsewhere outside South Africa and any judgment obtained against any of our foreign directors, officers and experts in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by a South African court. A foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which will be enforced by South African courts provided that: the court or arbitral body which pronounced the judgment had international jurisdiction and competence to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); the judgment has not lapsed; the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy in South Africa, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that no award is enforceable unless the defendant was duly served with documents initiating proceedings, that he was given a fair opportunity to be heard and that he enjoyed the right to be legally represented in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; the judgment was not obtained by improper or fraudulent means; the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or foreign revenue law or any award of multiple or punitive damages; and the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Business Act 99 of 1978 (as amended), of the Republic of South Africa. It has been the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. South African courts have awarded compensation to shareholders who have suffered damages as a result of a diminution in the value of their shares based on various actions by the corporation and its management. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, that does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. Whether a judgment was contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable, or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by a South African court, it will be payable in South African currency. Also, under South Africas exchange control laws, the approval of SARB is required before a defendant resident in South Africa may pay money to a non-resident plaintiff in satisfaction of a foreign judgment enforced by a court in South Africa. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws may be brought before South African courts. A plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. Furthermore, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South African courts. In reaching the foregoing conclusions, we consulted with our South African legal counsel, Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc. 29 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease our corporate headquarters facility which consists of approximately 93,000 square feet in Johannesburg, South Africa. We also lease properties throughout South Africa, including a 12,088 square foot manufacturing facility in Lazer Park and 153 depot facilities. We also lease additional office space in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban, South Africa; Guildford and London, United Kingdom; Seoul, South Korea; Munich, Germany; Hong Kong and Zhuhai, China; Mumbai, India; Black River, Mauritius and Frederick, Maryland. These leases expire at various dates through 2020. We own land and buildings in Ahnsung, Kyung-gi, South Korea, that is used for the storage of business documents. We believe that we have adequate facilities for our current business operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Litigation Regarding Legality of Debit Orders under Social Assistance Act Regulations On June 3, 2016, we filed for a declaratory order with the High Court of the Republic of South Africa Gauteng Division, Pretoria, to provide certainty to us, as well as other industry stakeholders, on the interpretation of the Assistance Act and recent Regulations promulgated in terms thereof (the Regulations). The Regulations limit direct deductions from social grants paid to beneficiaries. We interpret the meaning of the word deductions to be specific to the practice of deducting amounts, historically limited to life insurance premiums from grants, before the grants are paid to social welfare beneficiaries bank accounts, and are of the opinion that the legislature did not intend to curtail the right of beneficiaries to transact freely once the money is deposited into their bank accounts. We brought the application for a declaratory order because SASSA seeks to lend a broader interpretation to the meaning of the term deductions to incorporate any debit orders, EFT debits, purchase transactions, or fund transfers that are effected after the transfer of social grants to beneficiaries bank accounts. If SASSAs interpretation were to prevail, debit transactions could no longer be used as a method for beneficiaries to make regular payments for financial services such as insurance premiums, loan re-payments, cell phone contracts, money transfers or any other recurring payments. We believe that forcing beneficiaries to pay for these products or services in cash would be a major setback to the national objective of financial inclusiveness, introduce financial and security risks for beneficiaries and result in significant price increases for these products and services. We further believe that SASSAs interpretation of the Assistance Act and the Regulations is erroneous for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, our belief that such an interpretation violates beneficiaries constitutional rights by limiting their fundamental right to enter into contracts and that such interpretation impermissibly encroaches on the jurisdiction and powers of the SARB and the Payments Association of South Africa, which regulate the national payment system. SASSA's interpretation effectively prohibits the social welfare recipient community from enjoying the benefits of a convenient, low-cost, reliable and ubiquitous payment system that enables the recipients to procure financial services at highly competitive rates. We have been joined in our application by several other industry participants, and the SARB has also filed a responding affidavit. On June 15, 2016, SASSA brought criminal charges against us and Grindrod for contravening the Social Assistance Act, alleging that we and Grindrod failed to act in accordance with SASSAs instructions by processing debit orders against social welfare beneficiaries bank accounts after the Regulations came into effect. On June 28, 2016, the High Court scheduled a hearing on our application for a declaratory order for October 17 and 18, 2016. In its order, the High Court prohibited SASSA from making any representations to the South African Police Services and the National Prosecuting Authority regarding the criminal charges brought against us and Grindrod Bank pending the determination of the dispute, including the determination of any appeals. In addition, the order prevented SASSA from issuing further demands to us and Grindrod Bank to stop the processing of debit transactions against SASSA bank accounts pending the determination of the dispute, including the determination of any appeals. On August 8, 2016, we were informed that the NPA had reached a no prosecution decision on the criminal charges filed by SASSA. We cannot predict whether SASSA might attempt to bring new charges or ask the NPA to revisit its decision in future. We cannot predict how or when the Court will rule on our declaratory order application. 30 Challenge to Payment by SASSA of Additional Implementation Costs In March 2015, Corruption Watch, a South African non-profit civil society organization, commenced a legal proceeding in the High Court of South Africa seeking an order by the Court to review and set aside the decision of SASSAs Chief Executive Officer to approve the payment to us of ZAR 317 million (approximately ZAR 277 million, excluding VAT). Corruption Watch claims that there was no lawful basis for the decision to make the payment to us, and that the decision was unreasonable and irrational and did not comply with South African legislation. We are named as a respondent in this legal proceeding. As we previously disclosed, in June 2014, we received approximately ZAR 277 million, excluding VAT, from SASSA, related to the recovery of additional implementation costs we incurred during the beneficiary re-registration process in fiscal 2012 and 2013. After we signed our SASSA contract, SASSA requested that we biometrically register all social grant beneficiaries (including child grant beneficiaries) and collect additional information for each child grant recipient, in addition to the grant recipients who were issued with the SASSA-branded UEPS/EMV smart cards. We agreed to SASSAs request, and as a result, we performed approximately 11 million additional registrations beyond those that we were contractually required to perform in consideration for our monthly service fee. Accordingly, we claimed a cost recovery from SASSA, supported by a factual findings certificate from an independent auditing firm. SASSA agreed to pay us the ZAR 277 million as full settlement of the additional costs we incurred. We believe that Corruption Watchs claim is without merit, and we are defending it vigorously. However, we cannot predict how the Court will rule on the matter. NCR application for the cancelation of Moneylines registration as a credit provider In September 2014, the NCR applied to the South African National Consumer Tribunal, or Tribunal, to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline, for breach of the NCA based on an investigation concluded by it. Pursuant to the investigation, the NCA also issued two Compliance Notices one to CPS and one to Moneyline. The Compliance Notice issued to Moneyline accused it of having access into the Grindrod Bank Accounts of social grant beneficiaries which enables them (sic) to see the spending patterns of beneficiaries and deposit loan amounts into such accounts. The Compliance Notice issued to CPS accused it of providing information about social grant beneficiaries to Moneyline in breach of section 68(1) of the NCA. The Compliance Notices demanded that both CPS and Moneyline take the appropriate steps to address the alleged non-compliance with the NCA and to report in writing to the NCR, along with an independent audit report, that they were no longer non-compliant as alleged by the Compliance Notices. We opposed the issuance of the Compliance Notices and the Tribunal granted our requested orders that both Compliance Notices be set aside. Regarding the NCRs application to cancel the registration of Moneyline, we raised a number of procedural points in defense, which, if we are successful, will be dispositive of the application. Argument on these points was heard on November 27, 2015, before three tribunal members. Two ruled against us and one upheld our points. We are appealing the majority ruling to the High Court and await a hearing date. If we are successful, it will dispose of the application. If we do not prevail, then the NCRs application will be set down before the Consumer Tribunal for argument on the main issues raised by the NCR, as dealt with above. We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. There are no other material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, to which we are a party or of which any of our property is the subject. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 31 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market information Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, in the United States under the symbol UEPS and on the JSE in South Africa under the symbol NT1. The Nasdaq is our principal market for the trading of our common stock. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq. Period High Low Quarter ended September 30, 2014 $ 14.24 $ 10.38 Quarter ended December 31, 2014 $ 13.27 $ 10.21 Quarter ended March 31, 2015 $ 14.90 $ 11.24 Quarter ended June 30, 2015 $ 19.70 $ 12.19 Quarter ended September 30, 2015 $ 21.48 $ 16.10 Quarter ended December 31, 2015 $ 18.37 $ 12.98 Quarter ended March 31, 2016 $ 13.56 $ 8.44 Quarter ended June 30, 2016 $ 12.35 $ 8.72 Our transfer agent in the United States is Computershare Shareowner Services LLC, 480 Washington Blvd, Jersey City, New Jersey, 07310. According to the records of our transfer agent, as of August 15, 2016, there were 14 shareholders of record of our common stock. A substantially greater number of holders of our common stock are street name or beneficial holders, whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers, and other financial institutions. Our transfer agent in South Africa is Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd, 13th Floor, Rennie House, 19 Ameshoff Street, Braamfontein, 2001, South Africa. Dividends We have not paid any dividends on our shares of common stock during our last two fiscal years and presently intend to retain future earnings to finance the expansion of the business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, expansion plans, financial condition and other relevant factors. Issuer purchases of equity securities On February 3, 2016, our Board of Directors approved the replenishment of our existing share repurchase authorization to repurchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. On June 29, 2016, we adopted a Rule 10b5-1 plan for the purpose of repurchasing approximately $50 million of our common stock. The plan was established in connection with the $100 million share repurchase authorization. The table below presents our common stock purchased during fiscal 2016 per quarter: Average price Total number paid per of shares share Period purchased (US dollars) First - - Second 749,213 14.93 Third 1,328,699 9.58 Fourth 348,792 9.16 Total fiscal 2016 2,426,704 11.17 32 Share performance graph The chart below compares the five-year cumulative return, assuming the reinvestment of dividends, where applicable, on our common stock with that of the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Industrial Index. This graph assumes $100 was invested on June 30, 2011, in each of our common stock, the companies in the S&P 500 Index, and the companies in the NASDAQ Industrial Index. 33 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected historical consolidated financial data should be read together with Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following selected historical financial data as of June 30, 2016 and 2015, and for the three years ended June 30, 2016 have been derived from our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected historical consolidated financial data presented below as of June 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012 and for the years ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, have been derived from our consolidated financial statements, which are not included herein. The selected historical financial data as of each date and for each period presented have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in any future period. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (in thousands, except per share data) Year Ended June 30 2016 2015 2014 (1) 2013 (1) 2012 (1) Revenue $ 590,749 $ 625,979 $ 581,656 $ 452,147 $ 390,264 Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 290,101 297,856 260,232 196,834 141,000 Selling, general and administrative 145,886 158,919 168,072 191,552 137,404 Equity instruments granted pursuant to BEE transactions (2) - - 11,268 - 14,211 Depreciation and amortization 40,394 40,685 40,286 40,599 36,499 Impairment losses - - - - - Operating income 114,368 128,519 101,798 23,162 61,150 Interest income 15,292 16,355 14,817 12,083 8,576 Interest expense 3,423 4,456 7,473 7,966 9,345 Income before income taxes 126,237 140,418 109,142 27,279 60,381 Income tax expense 42,080 44,136 39,379 14,656 15,936 Net income attributable to Net1 82,454 94,735 70,111 12,977 44,651 Income from continuing operations per share: Basic $ 1.72 $ 2.03 $ 1.51 $ 0.28 $ 0.99 Diluted $ 1.71 $ 2.02 $ 1.50 $ 0.28 $ 0.99 (1) Includes revenue and implementation costs related to our SASSA contract from April 2012. In addition, 2014 includes recovery of $26.6 million of implementation costs from SASSA. (2) Includes a non-cash charge of approximately $11.3 million in 2014 related to common stock issued in a BEE transaction. In addition, 2012 includes a non-cash charge of approximately $14.2 million in connection with the issuance of a now-expired option to purchase shares of our common stock in a previous BEE transaction. Additional Operating Data: (in thousands, except percentages) Year ended June 30, 2016 (1) 2015 (1) 2014 (1) 2013 (1) 2012 (1) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 116,552 $ 135,258 $ 37,145 $ 55,917 $ 20,406 Cash flows used in investing activities (2) $ 5,756 $ 80,783 $ 9,237 $ 457,875 $ 247,428 Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities (2) $ 13,645 $ 16,784 $ (25,781 ) $ 399,657 $ 277,018 Operating income margin 19% 21% 18% 5% 16% (1) Cash flows used in investing activities include movements in settlement assets and cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities include movement in settlement liabilities. (2) Cash flows (used in) provided by investing activities and cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities for fiscal 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 have been restated as discussed in footnote 2 to the table below. We have: increased cash flows from investing activities and increased cash flows from financing activities by $21.3 million during the year ended June 30, 2015; decreased cash flows from investing activities and increased cash flows from financing activities by $12.4 million during the year ended June 30, 2014; increased cash flows from investing activities and decreased cash flows from financing activities by $10.1 million during the year ended June 30, 2013; and decreased cash flows from investing activities and increased cash flows from financing activities by $45.1 million during the year ended June 30, 2012. 34 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: in thousands) As of June 30, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents $ 223,644 $ 117,583 $ 58,672 $ 53,665 $ 39,123 Total current assets before settlement assets (1)(2) 386,998 301,874 259,591 169,059 163,302 Goodwill 179,478 166,437 186,576 175,806 182,737 Intangible assets 48,556 47,124 68,514 77,257 93,930 Total assets (1)(2) 1,263,500 1,316,956 1,963,375 1,302,662 997,904 Total current liabilities before settlement obligations 65,486 82,198 81,823 76,859 73,377 Total long-term debt 43,134 50,762 62,388 66,632 79,760 Total equity $ 603,220 $ 478,785 $ 441,748 $ 339,969 $ 346,811 (1) During the year ended June 30, 2016, we identified a balance sheet misclassification between current assets and long-term assets reported as of June 30, 2015. We have restated these amounts in our consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2015, and have decreased our accounts receivable, net of allowances, which impacts total current assets before settlement assets, and increased our other long-term assets by approximately $27.4 million, which has no impact on total assets. The amounts presented in the table have been adjusted for prior periods. The restated adjustments decreased our total current assets before settlement assets, and increased our other long-term assets for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, by $23.3 million, $15.7 million and $11.9 million, respectively. This restatement had no impact on our previously reported consolidated income, comprehensive income or cash flows. (2) During fiscal 2016, and in prior financial years, certain bank accounts, cash in transit and funds in preparation for immediate access by grant beneficiaries, as well as the corresponding obligation to grant beneficiaries, were not included in settlement assets and obligations, primarily due to the reservation of ownership clause in our agreement with SASSA and the assumption of total risk over the cash by the cash transfer service providers. In the course of the annual consideration of our accounting practices and in the context of the increased and more diversified payment delivery channels arising from our ATM and point of sale roll out, we have decided that our presentation would be enhanced by including these gross amounts in settlement assets and obligations. We have accordingly restated our balance sheet as of June 30, 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 to record an increase in settlement assets and obligations of $30.5 million, $12.4 million, $26.3 million and $42.0 million, respectively (balances translated at rates applicable as of June 30, 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.) The inclusion of these accounts did not impact on cash and cash equivalents reported nor did it impact on the Companys current assets before settlement assets and current liabilities before settlement obligations. - Remainder of this page left blank - 35 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6Selected Financial Data and Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. See Item 1A Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. Overview We are a leading provider of payment solutions, transaction processing services and financial technology across multiple industries and in a number of emerging and developed economies. We have developed and market a comprehensive transaction processing solution that encompasses our smart card-based alternative payment system for the unbanked and under-banked populations of developing economies and for mobile transaction channels. Our market-leading system can enable the billions of people globally who generally have limited or no access to a bank account to enter affordably into electronic transactions with each other, government agencies, employers, merchants and other financial service providers. Our UEPS, and UEPS/EMV derivative discussed below, uses biometrically secure smart cards that operate in real-time but offline, unlike traditional payment systems offered by major banking institutions that require immediate access through a communications network to a centralized computer. This offline capability means that users of our system can conduct transactions at any time with other card holders in even the most remote areas so long as a smart card reader, which is often portable and battery powered, is available. Our off-line systems also offer the highest level of availability and affordability by removing any elements that are costly and are prone to outages. Our latest version of the UEPS technology has been certified by EMV, which facilitates our traditionally proprietary UEPS system to interoperate with the global EMV standard and allows card holders to transact at any EMV-enabled point of sale terminal or ATM. The UEPS/EMV technology has been deployed on an extensive scale in South Africa through the issuance of MasterCard-branded UEPS/EMV cards to our social welfare grant customers. In addition to effecting purchases, cash-backs and any form of payment, our system can be used for banking, healthcare management, international money transfers, voting and identification. We also provide secure financial technology solutions and services, by offering transaction processing, financial and clinical risk management solutions to various industries. We have extensive expertise in secure online transaction processing, cryptography, mobile telephony, integrated circuit card (chip/smart card) technologies, and the design and provision of financial and value-added services to our cardholder base. Our technology is widely used in South Africa today, where we distribute pension and welfare payments, using our UEPS/EMV technology, to over ten million recipient cardholders across the entire country, process debit and credit card payment transactions on behalf of a wide range of retailers through our EasyPay system, process value-added services such as bill payments and prepaid airtime and electricity for the major bill issuers and local councils in South Africa, and provide mobile telephone top-up transactions for all of the South African mobile carriers. We are the largest provider of third-party and associated payroll payments in South Africa through our FIHRST service. We provide financial inclusion services such as microloans, insurance, mobile transacting and prepaid utilities to our cardholder base. In addition, through KSNET, we are one of the top three value-added network, or VAN, processors in South Korea, and we offer card processing, payment gateway and banking value-added services in that country. We have expanded our card issuing and acquiring capabilities through the acquisition of Transact24 in Hong Kong. Our Masterpayment subsidiary in Germany provides value added payment services to online retailers across Europe. Our XeoHealth service provides funders and providers of healthcare in United States with an on-line real-time management system for healthcare transactions. Our ZAZOO business unit is responsible for the worldwide technical development and commercialization of our array of web and mobile applications and payment technologies, such as MVC, Chip and GSM licensing and VTU, and has deployed solutions in many countries, including South Africa, Namibia, Nigeria, Malawi, Cameroon, the Philippines, India and Colombia. Sources of Revenue We generate our revenues by charging transaction fees to government agencies, merchants, financial service providers, utility providers, bill issuers, employers, healthcare providers and cardholders; by providing loans and insurance products and by selling hardware, licensing software and providing related technology services. 36 We have structured our business and our business development efforts around four related but separate approaches to deploying our technology. In our most basic approach, we act as a supplier, selling our equipment, software, and related technology to a customer. The revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment. We have found that we have greater revenue and profit opportunities, however, by acting as a service provider instead of a supplier. In this approach we own and operate the UEPS ourselves, charging one-time and on-going fees for the use of the system either on a fixed or ad valorem basis. This is the case in South Africa, where we distribute welfare grants on behalf of the South African government on a fixed fee basis, but charge a fee on an ad valorem basis for goods and services purchased using our smart card. The revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our South African transaction processing and Financial inclusion and applied technologies segments. Because our smart cards are designed to enable the delivery of more advanced services and products, we are also willing to supply those services and products directly where the business case is compelling. For instance, we provide short-term UEPS-based loans to our smart card holders. This is an example of the third approach that we have taken. Here we can act as the principal in operating a business that can be better delivered through our UEPS. We can also act as an agent, for instance, in the provision of insurance policies. In both cases, the revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment. In South Africa, we also generate fees from debit and credit card transaction processing, the provision of value-added services such as bill payments, mobile top-up and prepaid utility sales, and from providing a payroll transaction management service. The revenue and costs associated with these services are reflected in our South African transaction processing and Financial inclusion and applied technologies segments. Through KSNET, we earn most of our revenue from payment processing services we provide to approximately 225,000 merchants and to card issuers in South Korea through our value-added-network. Through Masterpayment and Transact24 we generate fee revenue through the provision of payment service provider and card issuing and acquiring services in primarily Germany, China and the U.S. Furthermore, in the U.S., we earn transaction fees from our customers utilizing our XeoRules online real-time management system for healthcare transactions. We also generate fees from our customers who utilize our VCPay technology to generate a unique, one-time use prepaid virtual card number to securely purchase goods and services or perform bill payments in any card-not-present environment. The revenue and costs at of all of these businesses are reflected in our International transaction processing segment. Finally, we have entered into business partnerships or joint ventures to introduce our financial technology solutions to markets such as Namibia and One Credit in Nigeria. In these situations, we take an equity position in the business while also acting as a supplier of technology. In evaluating these types of opportunities, we seek to maintain a highly disciplined approach, carefully selecting partners, participating closely in the development of the business plan and remaining actively engaged in the management of the new business. In most instances, the joint venture or partnership has a license to use our proprietary technologies in the specific territory, including the back-end system. We also own 26% of Finbond Group Limited, or Finbond, a South African public company that has a mutual banking license in South Africa and owns certain state lenders in the U.S. We account for our equity investments using the equity method. When we equity-account these investments, we are required under U.S. GAAP to eliminate our share of the net income generated from sales of hardware and software to the investee. We recognize this net income from these equity-accounted investments during the period in which the hardware and software is utilized in the investees operations, or has been sold to third-party customers, as the case may be. We believe that this flexible approach enables us to drive adoption of our solution while capturing the value created by the implementation of our technology. Developments during Fiscal 2016 Cancellation of SASSA Tender In late 2014, SASSA issued a request for proposal, or RFP, as ordered by the South African Constitutional Court. In May 2015, after careful consideration of all the relevant factors, we decided to withdraw from the tender process and did not submit a bid. In October, 2015, SASSA determined not to award the SASSA tender, in accordance with the recommendation received from the Bid Adjudication Committee, or BAC. The BAC recommended that the tender not be awarded as a result of the non-responsiveness of all the bids received with the mandatory requirements contained in the RFP and that our current SASSA contract should continue until completion of the five-year period for which the contract was initially awarded (March 31, 2017), in accordance with the Constitutional Courts judgment of April 2014. 37 The BAC also recommended that SASSA file a report with the Constitutional Court setting out all the relevant information on whether and when SASSA will be ready to assume the duty to pay grants itself. SASSA filed this report with the Constitutional Court in November 2015. Accordingly, we expect that we will continue to provide our social grants payment service to SASSA through March 31, 2017. We cannot predict at this time whether or not we will continue to provide our service after that date. We are committed to continue with the provision of a high level service to SASSA and the social grant beneficiaries in accordance with the service level agreement and the Constitutional Courts order. Progress of financial inclusion initiatives in South Africa In June 2015, we began the rollout of EPE, our business-to-consumer, or B2C, offering in South Africa, and we have experienced rapid growth in the number of new customers. At August 18, 2016, we had more than 1,430,000 active EPE accounts, compared to 1,087,000 at April 30, 2016. EPE is a fully transactional account created to serve the needs of South Africas unbanked and under-banked population, and is available to all consumers regardless of their financial or social status or whether they are SASSA recipients. The EPE account offers customers a comprehensive suite of financial and various financial inclusion services, such as prepaid products, in an economical, convenient and secure solution. EPE provides account holders with a UEPS-EMV debit MasterCard, mobile and internet banking services, ATM and POS services, as well as loans, insurance and other financial products and value-added services. However, SASSA is challenging the ability of beneficiaries to freely transact with the grants that they receive. In order for us to address the sizeable opportunity for EPE and related financial inclusion services in South Africa, we have had to expand our brick-and-mortar financial services branch infrastructure and supplement our nationwide distribution with a UEPS/EMV-enabled ATM network, as well as a dedicated sales force. Such investments have accelerated through fiscal 2016 and at July 31, 2016, we had approximately 140 branches, 904 ATMs, and approximately 2,200 dedicated employees. Our deployed ATMs, which are both EMV-and UEPS-compliant, provide biometric verification as well as proof of life functionality, in South Africa. We place these ATMs with our merchant partners and within our own branches, creating a new delivery channel for our products and services that did not previously exist. The ATM rollout has continued to make a positive contribution to our reported results and we have been able to expand our customer base because our ATMs accept all South African issued bank cards. We will continue to expand our ATM footprint during fiscal 2017. In September 2015, we resumed marketing and business development activities in selected areas for the distribution of our simple, low-cost life insurance products and have sold approximately 160,000 new policies through August 7, 2016, in addition to the basic life insurance policy provided with every EPE account opened. We recruited additional and often-times specialized staff to expand our insurance activities during fiscal 2016. Following the high sequential growth in our lending book during the second quarter of fiscal 2016 as a result of high demand for our loans during the festive season and the opening of new branches, we experienced lower demand during the third quarter of fiscal 2016. Tougher economic conditions in South Africa, aggravated by rising food prices as a result of widespread drought conditions and a weakening currency, has had an impact on the number of clients who qualify for our loan products. - Remainder of this page left blank - 38 The graph below presents the growth of the number of EPE cards and Smart Life policies: ZAZOO WorldRemit We processed our first transactions as a result of our relationship with WorldRemit during the third quarter of fiscal 2016. ZAZOO has entered into an agreement with WorldRemit, a global money transfer services provider, to enable South Africans to instantly receive international money transfers directly into their personal bank accounts. WorldRemit has developed an application, or app, that enables people to transfer money to friends and family using a smartphone, tablet or computer at any time from anywhere. ZAZOO enables WorldRemit to offer this service in South Africa by using technology developed and customized by FIHRST, an authorized systems operator and third-party processor. FIHRSTs technology streamlines the relationship between the payer and payee and ensures data integrity using sophisticated encryption routines with secure dedicated lines to South Africas major banks. South Africans receive inbound remittances of more than USD 1 billion per year. According to the Remittance Prices Worldwide report published by the World Bank, the average global cost for remittances is 7.68% of the transaction value, with Sub-Saharan Africa listed as the most expensive region in the world at 9.74% . These numbers emphasize the opportunity that exists in South Africa to attract customers through the introduction of highly efficient financial technology by lowering cost and increasing accessibility. In addition, unbanked recipients have the option of opening an EPE account. Should a recipient select to receive their funds into their EPE account, ZAZOO will enable that recipient to make use of its Mobile Virtual Card, or MVC, technology to create a virtual MasterCard to spend digitally for any online purchase in South Africa. 39 Oxigen Services India Pvt. Ltd, or Oxigen ZAZOO has recently entered into an agreement with Oxigen, a payment solutions provider in India, to seamlessly integrate its MVC technology to power VIRTUALe into Oxigen Wallet in association with RBL Bank as sponsor bank and co-branding partner. The Oxigen Wallet utilizes ZAZOOs MVC technology to power the VIRTUALe Visa Prepaid card securely and offline for card-not-present transactions, such as e-commerce or m-commerce purchases. The MVC technology runs as an application on any mobile phone, transforming it into a cashless, secure and convenient electronic payment device that eliminates the risks of theft, phishing, skimming, spoofing and other fraudulent activities. Oxigen Wallet customers are able to use the application to make any purchases or bill payments at online merchants, or send virtual gift cards to friends and family. We launched the beta version of our MVC technology with Oxigen during January 2016 and as at August 18, 2016 we had approximately 300,000 users, and during that period had processed transaction value of INR 65 million (approximately $1.0 million translated at exchange rates prevailing as of June 30, 2016). World Food Program The Southern Africa Regional Office of the United Nations World Food Program, or the WFP, has awarded us a contract for 12 countries that are members of the Southern African Development Community. Under the terms of the contract, we distribute cash and food grants to hundreds of thousands of WFP beneficiaries in these countries. Our technology makes use of the existing infrastructure in each territory and allows for the biometric verification of all beneficiaries regardless of whether or not such infrastructure is biometrically enabled. In certain situations, we utilize our patented variable PIN technology in conjunction with fingerprint or voice verification methods using any mobile phone. We do not expect that this socially responsible initiative will necessarily translate into a meaningful financial contributor for us in the short term, but we strongly believe that the exposure and credibility associated with winning and operating a project of this nature and scale will create further opportunities for us to implement the same or similar solutions in other contexts. We have finalized our deployment contract with the WFP office based in South Africa and are preparing for the first deployment of our technology in Zimbabwe. Acquisitions Transact24 Limited On January 20, 2016, we acquired the remaining 56% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of Transact24 for $3 million in cash and through the issue of 391,645 shares of our common stock. Transact24 is a specialist Hong Kong-based payment services company and is now our wholly-owned subsidiary. We originally acquired approximately 44% of Transact24 in May 2015. Philip Meyer, the Managing Director of Transact24 and an industry veteran in the international payments and transaction processing industries, has become an executive officer of our company. During the second half of fiscal 2016, Transact24 obtained Payment Intermediary Services Licenses (PISL) in Mauritius and an Authorized Electronic Money Institution License (AEMIL) in the United Kingdom. The PISL allows Transact24 to participate in the growing e-commerce market by offering online merchants the ability to accept various forms of electronic payment worldwide. The AEMIL license is a key part of our strategy to establish the regulatory framework we require to expand our product offerings globally, specifically virtual and plastic card issuing and will enable us to apply for membership of the large card schemes and become an issuer and acquirer in our right. Masterpayment AG We acquired 60% of Masterpayment in early April 2016, and the remaining 40% we did not own in early June 2016, for an aggregate of approximately $25 million in cash. Masterpayment is a specialist payment services processor based in Munich, Germany. Masterpayment provides payment and acquiring services for all major European debit and credit cards; and invoicing for online retail, digital goods and content. Masterpayment currently has a client portfolio of approximately 5,000 registered merchants. In collaboration with Bank Frick & Co. AG, a Liechtenstein-based bank, Masterpayment provides its e-commerce merchants with working capital optimization by providing a flexible form of financing, which employs a trading transaction instead of traditional bank credit. Masterpayments Finetrading product enables the seamless financing of a merchants inventory orders, resulting in accelerated payment settlement and the elimination of the requirement for a merchant to maintain rolling reserves or cash advances. 40 As part of the April 2016 transaction, we, together with Masterpayment, entered into a long term co-operation agreement with Bank Frick, in terms of which Bank Frick will become our strategic banking partner and will provide us with the support and banking services required to deploy our products and services, including VCPay, Finetrading and money remittances in Europe. We have developed a pan-European roll-out program for Masterpayments working capital financing initiative and we expect to incur significant implementation costs during fiscal 2017 for the recruitment of business development and support staff and the establishment of offices. Finbond In March 2016, Finbond completed a rights offering in which we acquired an additional 40,733,723 shares for approximately $8.9 million. In April 2016, our representative was appointed to Finbonds board of directors and we have determined that we are now able to exert significant influence on Finbond due to our representation on its board of directors combined with our level of shareholding. Up until this date, we had no rights to participate in the financial, operating, or governance decisions made by Finbond. We also had no participation on Finbonds board of directors whether through contractual agreement or otherwise. Consequently, we have concluded that we did not have significant influence over Finbond and therefore equity accounting was not appropriate up until March 31, 2016, and Finbond was carried as an available for sale asset up until that date. Issue of shares to the IFC Investors We received approximately $107.7 million from the IFC Investors on May 11, 2016, in connection with the issuance to them of approximately 9.98 million shares of our common stock at a subscription price of $10.79 per share. We have also entered into a policy agreement with the IFC Investors. Refer to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for additional detail regarding the transaction and the policy agreement. We intend to use the proceeds of the IFC investment primarily for the expansion of our business and technological solutions in emerging markets across the globe. IFC is a member of the World Bank Group and is the largest global development institution focused on the private sector in emerging markets. Regulatory change to merchant fees in South Korea Korean regulators have recently introduced specific regulations governing the fees that may be charged on card transactions, as is the case in most other developed economies, that have a direct impact on card issuers in Korea. Consistent with global practices, we expect the card issuers to renegotiate their fees with VAN companies including KSNET, and if successful, such actions may have an adverse impact on KSNETs financial performance. Transaction processors and acquirers in other international markets facing similar regulation have successfully navigated through this cycle, and we believe we are also well positioned to accommodate these changes and additionally implement initiatives that would further diversify KSNETs existing business model. Closure of cases by Hawks During 2012, shortly after the award of the SASSA tender to us, certain media reports appeared in the South African press which alleged or implied that the SASSA tender process was tainted by corruption through bribes by or on behalf of our subsidiary, Cash Paymaster Service (Pty) Ltd. In February 2013, we filed an application pursuant to Section 34 of the South African Prevention of Corrupt Activities Act in South Africa with the South African Police Service. Section 34 deals with the reporting of suspected fraud, theft, extortion and forgery. Matters reported under Section 34 are usually referred for investigation to the Serious Economic Offences Unit of the South African Police Services Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, or Hawks. We filed the Section 34 application after we conducted our own internal investigation into the allegations contained in the South African press articles. We found no evidence substantiating any of the press allegations. We then filed the Section 34 application to prompt the Hawks to conduct a wider investigation into the allegations because we did not have access to the personal financial records of the alleged perpetrators. A separate but similar complaint was lodged by the Democratic Alliance, the official opposition political party in South Africa. In November 2015, we received a written notice from the Hawks, stating that both cases were investigated and brought before two separate prosecutors for decisions. As both prosecutors declined to prosecute these matters, the Hawks have closed the investigations and regard the matters as finalized. 41 Dismissal of class action lawsuit in the U.S. In September, 2015, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed the purported securities class action litigation originally filed on December 24, 2013, against us, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty, the determination of estimates requires managements judgment based on a variety of assumptions and other determinants such as historical experience, current and expected market conditions and certain scientific evaluation techniques. Management believes that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and the impact of these policies on the understanding of the results of our operations and financial condition. Business Combinations and the Recoverability of Goodwill A component of our growth strategy has been to acquire and integrate businesses that complement our existing operations. The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair value at the date of purchase. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, we use various recognized valuation methods, including present value modeling. Further, we make assumptions using certain valuation techniques, including discount rates and timing of future cash flows. We review the carrying value of goodwill annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. In performing this review, we are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill that is implied from a valuation of the reporting unit to which the goodwill has been allocated after deducting the fair values of all the identifiable assets and liabilities that form part of the reporting unit. The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In determining the fair value of reporting units, we consider the earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, and the EBITDA multiples applicable to peer and industry comparables of the reporting units. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. In addition, we make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. The results of our impairment tests during fiscal 2016 indicated that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and therefore our reporting units were not at risk of potential impairment. Intangible Assets Acquired Through Acquisitions The fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired through acquisitions were determined by management using the purchase method of accounting. We completed acquisitions during fiscal 2016 where we identified and recognized intangible assets. We have used the relief from royalty method, the multi-period excess earnings method, the income approach and the cost approach to value acquisition-related intangible assets. In so doing, we made assumptions regarding expected future revenues and expenses to develop the underlying forecasts, applied contributory asset charges, discount rates, exchange rates, cash tax charges and useful lives. The valuations were based on information available at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by us. No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected. For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows. To the extent actual cash flows vary, revisions to the useful life or impairment of intangible assets may be necessary. Deferred Taxation We estimate our tax liability through the calculations done for the determination of our current tax liability, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which are disclosed on our balance sheet. Management then has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in future periods. In the event it is determined that the deferred tax assets to be realized in the future would be in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded. 42 This adjustment would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should it be determined that all or part of the net deferred tax asset would not be realized in the future, an adjustment to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be charged to income in the period such determination is made. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and practicable tax planning strategies are considered. During fiscal 2016, we recorded an increase of $16.3 million to our valuation allowance, and in fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively, we recorded a decrease of $2.6 million and $29.0 million to our valuation allowance. Stock-based Compensation and Equity Instrument issued pursuant to BEE transactions Stock-based compensation Management is required to make estimates and assumptions related to our valuation and recording of stock-based compensation charges under current accounting standards. These standards require all share-based compensation to employees to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their respective grant date fair values over the requisite service periods and also requires an estimation of forfeitures when calculating compensation expense. We utilize the Cox Ross Rubinstein binomial model to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors and recognize compensation cost on a straight line basis. Option-pricing models require estimates of a number of key valuation inputs including expected volatility, expected dividend yield, expected term and risk-free interest rate. Our management has estimated forfeitures based on historic employee behavior under similar compensation plans. The fair value of stock options is affected by the assumptions selected. Net stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations was $3.6 million, $3.2 million and $3.7 million for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Equity instruments During fiscal 2014, we recorded non-cash charges of $11.3 million associated with the issuance of equity instruments as part of the BEE transactions as these equity instruments were fully vested in that year. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable related to our Financial inclusion and applied technologies and International transaction-based activities segments with respect to sales or rental of hardware, support and maintenance services provided; or sale of licenses to customers; or the provision of transaction processing services to our customers. Our policy is to regularly review the aging of outstanding amounts due from customers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of the amounts outstanding. Management considers factors including period outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers, past payment history and the results of discussions by our credit department with the customer. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. Additional provisions may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these receivables, including on-going evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. UEPS-based lending We maintain an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable related to our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment with respect to UEPS-based loans provided to our customers. Our policy is to regularly review the ageing of outstanding amounts due from borrowers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of finance loans receivable. We write off UEPS-based loans and related service fees if a borrower is in arrears with repayments for more than three months or dies. Management considers factors including the period of the UEPS-loan outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers and the past payment history and trends of its established UEPS-based lending book. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. Additional allowances may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these finance loan receivables, including on-going evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. 43 Research and Development Accounting standards require product development costs to be charged to expenses as incurred until technological feasibility is attained. Technological feasibility is attained when our software has completed system testing and has been determined viable for its intended use. The time between the attainment of technological feasibility and completion of software development has been short. Accordingly, we did not capitalize any development costs during the years ended June 30, 2016, 2015 or 2014, particularly because the main part of our development is the enhancement and upgrading of existing products. Costs to develop software for our internal use is expensed as incurred, except to the extent that these costs are incurred during the application development stage. All other costs including those incurred in the project development and post-implementation stages are expensed as incurred. A significant amount of judgment is required to separate research costs, new development costs and ongoing development costs based as the transition between these stages. A multitude of factors need to be considered by management, including an assessment of the state of readiness of the software and the existence of markets for the software. The possibility of capitalizing development costs in the future may have a material impact on the groups profitability in the period when the costs are capitalized, and in subsequent periods when the capitalized costs are amortized. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements adopted Refer to Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2016 Refer to Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2016, including the expected dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Currency Exchange Rate Information Actual exchange rates The actual exchange rates for and at the end of the periods presented were as follows: Table 1 Year ended June 30, 2016 2015 2014 ZAR : $ average exchange rate 14.5062 11.4494 10.3798 Highest ZAR : $ rate during period 16.8231 12.5779 11.2579 Lowest ZAR : $ rate during period 12.1965 10.5128 9.6259 Rate at end of period 14.7838 12.2854 10.5887 KRW : $ average exchange rate 1,173 1,078 1,068 Highest KRW : $ rate during period 1,245 1,139 1,147 Lowest KRW : $ rate during period 1,122 1,009 1,014 Rate at end of period 1,153 1,128 1,014 44 45 Translation Exchange Rates We are required to translate our results of operations from ZAR to U.S. dollars on a monthly basis. Thus, the average rates used to translate this data for the years ended June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014, vary slightly from the averages shown in the table above. The translation rates we use in presenting our results of operations are the rates shown in the following table: Year ended Table 2 June 30, 2016 2015 2014 Income and expense items: $1 = ZAR 14.3842 11.4275 10.3966 Income and expense items: $1 = KRW 1,172 1,073 1,049 Balance sheet items: $1 = ZAR 14.7838 12.2854 10.5887 Balance sheet items: $1 = KRW 1,153 1,128 1,014 Results of Operations The discussion of our consolidated overall results of operations is based on amounts as reflected in our audited consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We analyze our results of operations both in U.S. dollars, as presented in the consolidated financial statements, and supplementally in ZAR, because ZAR is the functional currency of the entities which contribute the majority of our profits and is the currency in which the majority of our transactions are initially incurred and measured. Due to the significant impact of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and ZAR on our reported results and because we use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency, we believe that the supplemental presentation of our results of operations in ZAR is useful to investors to understand the changes in the underlying trends of our business. Our operating segment revenue presented in Results of operations by operating segment represents total revenue per operating segment before intercompany eliminations. A reconciliation between total operating segment revenue and revenue presented in our consolidated financial statements is included in Note 23 to those statements. Fiscal 2016 includes the results of Transact24 from the January 1, 2016 and Masterpayment from April 1, 2016. Fiscal 2015 results exclude MediKredit and NUETS business from July 1, 2014. Refer also to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Fiscal 2016 Compared to Fiscal 2015 The following factors had an influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2016 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Unfavorable impact from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against primary functional currencies: The U.S. dollar appreciated by 26% against the ZAR and 9% against the KRW during fiscal 2016, which negatively impacted our reported results; Continued growth in airtime revenue and transaction fees: We continued to grow our financial inclusion services offerings during fiscal 2016, which has resulted in higher revenues and operating income, primarily from more sales of low-margin prepaid airtime and an increase in transaction fees; Launch of EPE and Smart Life: During fiscal 2016 we launched our EPE and Smart Life offerings and expanded our ATM network, which contributed to an increase in revenue in ZAR, as well as an associated increase in establishment costs for our branch network; Increased contribution by KSNET: Our results were positively impacted by growth in our Korean operations; and Tax impact of dividends from South African subsidiary: Our income tax expense includes approximately $6.2 million related to the tax impact, including withholding taxes, resulting from distributions from our South African subsidiary which helped reduce the impact of a weakened ZAR on our reported cash balances. The conversion of a significant portion of our ZAR cash reserves to USD negatively impacted our interest income due to the material difference between ZAR and USD deposit rates. Consolidated overall results of operations This discussion is based on the amounts which were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 46 The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: In United States Dollars Table 3 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2016 2015 % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 590,749 625,979 (6% ) Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 290,101 297,856 (3% ) Selling, general and administration 145,886 158,919 (8% ) Depreciation and amortization 40,394 40,685 (1% ) Operating income 114,368 128,519 (11% ) Interest income 15,292 16,355 (6% ) Interest expense 3,423 4,456 (23% ) Income before income tax expense 126,237 140,418 (10% ) Income tax expense 42,080 44,136 (5% ) Net income before earnings from equity-accounted investments 84,157 96,282 (13% ) Earnings from equity-accounted investments 639 452 41% Net income 84,796 96,734 (12% ) Less net income attributable to non-controlling interest 2,342 1,999 17% Net income attributable to us 82,454 94,735 (13% ) In South African Rand Table 4 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2016 2015 ZAR ZAR % 000 000 change Revenue 8,497,452 7,153,375 19% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 4,172,870 3,403,749 23% Selling, general and administration 2,098,453 1,816,047 16% Depreciation and amortization 581,036 464,928 25% Operating income 1,645,093 1,468,651 12% Interest income 219,963 186,897 18% Interest expense 49,237 50,921 (3% ) Income before income tax expense 1,815,819 1,604,627 13% Income tax expense 605,287 504,364 20% Net income before earnings from equity-accounted investments 1,210,532 1,100,263 10% Earnings from equity-accounted investments 9,192 5,165 78% Net income 1,219,724 1,105,428 10% Less net income attributable to non-controlling interest 33,688 22,844 47% Net income attributable to us 1,186,036 1,082,584 10% In ZAR, the increase in revenue was primarily due to higher prepaid airtime sales, more low-margin transaction fees generated from cardholders using the South African National Payment System, more fees generated from our new EPE and ATM offerings, an increase in the number of SASSA UEPS/ EMV beneficiaries paid, a higher contribution from KSNET and more ad hoc terminal sales, partially offset by lower UEPS-loans fees. In ZAR, the increase in cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support was primarily due to higher expenses incurred from increased usage of the South African National Payment System by beneficiaries, expenses incurred to roll-out our new EPE and ATM offerings and expanding our branch network, and more prepaid airtime sold. In ZAR, our selling, general and administration expense increased due to a higher staff complement resulting from our EPE roll-out, as well as increases in goods and services purchased from third parties, offset by a $1.9 million fair value gain resulting from the acquisition of Transact24 and a gain of ZAR 30 million ($2.2 million) resulting from the change in accounting for Finbond due to the appointment of our representative to Finbonds board of directors. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2016 and 2015 was 19% and 21%, respectively. We discuss the components of operating income margin under Results of operations by operating segment. The decrease is primarily attributable to the higher cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support referred to above and an increase in depreciation expenses. 47 In ZAR, depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of an increase in depreciation related to more terminals used to provide transaction processing in Korea, the roll-out of EPE ATMs and an increase in acquisition-related intangible asset amortization resulting from the Transact24 and Masterpayment transactions, all partially offset by lower overall amortization of intangible assets that are now fully amortized. In ZAR, interest on surplus cash increased to $15.3 million (ZAR 220.0 million) from $16.4 million (ZAR 186.9 million), due primarily to higher average daily ZAR cash balances and ZAR interest rates, partially offset by the lower interest earned on the USD cash reserves that we converted from ZAR through distributions from our South African subsidiary. Interest expense decreased to $3.4 million (ZAR 49.2 million) from $4.5 million (ZAR 50.9 million), due to a lower average long-term debt balance on our South Korean debt and a lower interest rate. Fiscal 2016 tax expense was $42.1 million (ZAR 605.3 million) compared to $44.1 million (ZAR 504.4 million) in fiscal 2015. Our effective tax rate for the fiscal 2016, was 33.3% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including consulting and legal fees) and the tax impact, including withholding taxes, of approximately $6.2 million attributable to distributions from our South African subsidiary. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2015, was 31.4% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including consulting and legal). Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating income are illustrated below Table 5 In United States Dollars (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2016 % of 2015 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 212,574 36% 236,452 38% (10% ) International transaction processing 169,807 29% 164,554 26% 3% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 249,403 42% 272,600 44% (9% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 631,784 107% 673,606 108% (6% ) Intersegment eliminations (41,035 ) (7% ) (47,627 ) (8% ) (14% ) Consolidated revenue 590,749 100% 625,979 100% (6% ) Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 51,386 45% 51,008 40% 1% International transaction processing 23,389 20% 26,805 21% (13% ) Financial inclusion and applied technologies 54,999 48% 72,725 57% (24% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 129,774 113% 150,538 118% (14% ) Corporate/Eliminations (15,406 ) (13% ) (22,019 ) (18% ) (30% ) Consolidated operating income 114,368 100% 128,519 100% (11% ) Table 6 In South African Rand (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2016 2015 ZAR % of ZAR % of % Operating Segment 000 total 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 3,057,707 36% 2,702,055 38% 13% International transaction processing 2,442,538 29% 1,880,441 26% 30% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 3,587,463 42% 3,115,137 44% 15% Subtotal: Operating segments 9,087,708 107% 7,697,633 108% 18% Intersegment eliminations (590,256 ) (7% ) (544,258 ) (8% ) 8% Consolidated revenue 8,497,452 100% 7,153,375 100% 19% Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 739,147 45% 582,894 40% 27% International transaction processing 336,432 20% 306,314 21% 10% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 791,117 48% 831,065 57% (5% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 1,866,696 113% 1,720,273 118% 9% Corporate/Eliminations (221,603 ) (13% ) (251,622 ) (18% ) (12% ) Consolidated operating income 1,645,093 100% 1,468,651 100% 12% 48 South African transaction processing In ZAR, the increase in segment revenue and operating income was primarily due to higher EPE transaction revenue as a result of increased usage of our ATMs, more low-margin transaction fees generated from card holders using the South African National Payment System, increased inter-segment transaction processing activities, and a modest increase in the number of social welfare grants distributed. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2016 and 2015 was 24% and 22%, respectively, and has increased primarily due a modest increase in the margin on transaction fees generated from cardholders using the South African National Payment System and to an increase in the number of beneficiaries paid in fiscal 2016. International transaction-based activities Revenue increased primarily due to higher transaction volume at KSNET during fiscal 2016 and the inclusion of the contribution from Transact24 and Masterpayment. Operating income during fiscal 2016 was lower due to an increase in depreciation expense and ongoing ZAZOO start-up costs in the United Kingdom and India, but was partially offset by an increase in revenue contribution from KSNET and a positive contribution from Transact24, Masterpayment and XeoHealth. Operating income and operating income margin for fiscal 2015, were positively impacted by a refund of approximately $1.7 million that had been paid several years ago in connection with industry-wide litigation. Operating income margin for fiscal 2016 and 2015, was 14% and 16%, respectively. Financial inclusion and applied technologies In ZAR, Financial inclusion and applied technologies revenue and operating income increased primarily due to higher prepaid airtime and other value-added services sales, more ad hoc terminal and card sales and, in ZAR, an increase in inter-segment revenues, offset by lower lending service fees. Operating income for fiscal 2016, was adversely impacted by establishment costs for Smart Life and expansion of our branch network. Operating income margin for the Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment was 22% and 27%, during fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively, and has decreased primarily due to the sale of more low-margin prepaid airtime and establishment costs for Smart Life and expansion of our branch network. Corporate/ Eliminations Our corporate expenses generally include acquisition-related intangible asset amortization; expenditure related to compliance with Sarbanes; non-employee directors fees; employee and executive bonuses; stock-based compensation; legal fees; audit fees; directors and officers insurance premiums; telecommunications expenses; property-related expenditures including utilities, rental, security and maintenance; and elimination entries. In USD, our corporate expenses have decreased primarily due to the impact of the stronger USD on goods and services procured in other currencies, primarily the ZAR, lower amortization costs, lower executive cash incentive awards, the fair value gain resulting from the acquisition of Transact24 and the gain resulting from the change in accounting for Finbond, partially offset by modest increases in USD denominated goods and services purchased from third parties and directors fees. - Remainder of this page left blank - 49 Fiscal 2015 Compared to Fiscal 2014 The following factors had an influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2015 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Unfavorable impact from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the ZAR: The U.S. dollar appreciated by 10% against the ZAR during fiscal 2015 which negatively impacted our reported results; Continued growth in financial inclusion services: We continued to expand our financial inclusion service offerings during fiscal 2015, which resulted in higher revenues and operating income from more sales of low-margin prepaid airtime and UEPS-based lending; Increased contribution by KSNET: Our results were positively impacted by growth in our Korean operations; Increase in the number of SASSA grants paid: Our revenue and operating income increased as a result of the higher number of SASSA UEPS/EMV cardholders paid during fiscal 2015 compared with 2014; $26.6 million recovery of expenses in fiscal 2014: During fiscal 2014, we received approximately $26.6 million, or approximately $19.1 million, net of tax, from SASSA related to the recovery of additional implementation costs incurred during the beneficiary re-registration process in fiscal 2012 and 2013; Fair value charge resulting from issue of equity instruments pursuant to BEE transactions in fiscal 2014: The fair value non-cash charge of $11.3 million related to our BEE transactions adversely impacted our reported results during fiscal 2014; and Lower DOJ and SEC investigation-related expenses: We incurred DOJ and SEC investigation-related expenses of $0.2 million during fiscal 2015 compared to $3.9 million during 2014. Consolidated overall results of operations This discussion is based on the amounts which were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: In United States Dollars Table 7 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 625,979 581,656 8% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 297,856 260,232 14% Selling, general and administration 158,919 168,072 (5% ) Equity instruments issued pursuant to BEE transactions - 11,268 nm Depreciation and amortization 40,685 40,286 1% Operating income 128,519 101,798 26% Interest income 16,355 14,817 10% Interest expense 4,456 7,473 (40% ) Income before income taxes 140,418 109,142 29% Income tax expense 44,136 39,379 12% Net income before income from equity-accounted investments 96,282 69,763 38% Income from equity-accounted investments 452 298 52% Net income 96,734 70,061 38% Less (add) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interest 1,999 (50 ) nm Net income attributable to Net1 94,735 70,111 35% - Remainder of this page left blank - 50 In South African Rand Table 8 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 ZAR ZAR % 000 000 change Revenue 7,153,375 6,047,244 18% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 3,403,749 2,705,528 26% Selling, general and administration 1,816,047 1,745,784 4% Equity instruments issued pursuant to BEE transactions - 118,740 nm Depreciation and amortization 464,928 418,838 11% Operating income 1,468,651 1,058,354 39% Interest income 186,897 154,046 21% Interest expense 50,921 77,694 (34% ) Income before income taxes 1,604,627 1,134,706 41% Income tax expense 504,364 409,408 23% Net income before income from equity-accounted investments 1,100,263 725,298 52% Income from equity-accounted investments 5,165 3,098 67% Net income 1,105,428 728,396 52% Less (add) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interest 22,844 (520 ) nm Net income attributable to Net1 1,082,584 728,916 49% The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher contributions from our financial inclusion products and growth at KSNET. These increases were offset by the recovery of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract received in 2014. The increase in cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support was primarily due to higher expenses incurred from increased usage of the South African National Payment System by beneficiaries and more prepaid airtime sold. In ZAR, our selling, general and administration expense increased due to increases in goods and services purchased from third parties. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2015 and 2014 was 21% and 18%, respectively. We discuss the components of operating income margin under Results of operations by operating segment. The increase is primarily attributable to higher transaction volumes in South Africa, including prepaid airtime sales, lending and SASSA grants paid. The grant date fair value of the equity instruments issued pursuant to our December 2014 BEE transactions was $11.3 million (ZAR 118.7 million) and was expensed in full in fiscal 2014. Depreciation and amortization were higher primarily as a result of an increase in depreciation related to more terminals used to provide transaction processing in Korea and the roll-out of ATMs in South Africa, which was partially offset by no Eason intangible asset amortization as these intangible assets were fully amortized at the end of June 2014. Interest on surplus cash increased to $16.4 million (ZAR 186.9 million) from $14.8 million (ZAR 154.0 million), due primarily to higher average daily ZAR cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $4.5 million (ZAR 50.9 million) from $7.5 million (ZAR 77.7 million), due to a lower average long-term debt balance on our South Korean debt and a lower interest rate. Fiscal 2015 tax expense was $44.1 million (ZAR 504.4 million) compared to $39.4 million (ZAR 409.4 million) in fiscal 2014. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2015, was 31.4% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including consulting and legal). Our effective tax rate for the fiscal 2014, was 36.1% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including the expense related to the equity instruments issued pursuant to our BEE transactions, interest expense related to our long-term South Korean borrowings and stock-based compensation charges). 51 Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating income are illustrated below Table 9 In United States Dollars (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2015 % of 2014 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 236,452 38% 261,577 45% (10% ) International transaction processing 164,554 26% 152,725 26% 8% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 272,600 44% 207,595 36% 31% Subtotal: Operating segments 673,606 108% 621,897 107% 8% Intersegment eliminations (47,627 ) (8% ) (40,241 ) (7% ) 18% Consolidated revenue 625,979 100% 581,656 100% 8% Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 51,008 40% 61,401 60% (17% ) International transaction processing 26,805 21% 21,952 22% 22% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 72,725 57% 60,685 60% 20% Subtotal: Operating segments 150,538 118% 144,038 142% 5% Corporate/Eliminations (22,019 ) (18% ) (42,240 ) (42% ) (48% ) Consolidated operating income 128,519 100% 101,798 100% 26% Table 10 In South African Rand (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 ZAR % of ZAR % of % Operating Segment 000 total 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 2,702,055 38% 2,719,511 45% (1% ) International transaction processing 1,880,441 26% 1,587,821 26% 18% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 3,115,137 44% 2,158,282 36% 44% Subtotal: Operating segments 7,697,633 108% 6,465,614 107% 19% Intersegment eliminations (544,258 ) (8% ) (418,370 ) (7% ) 30% Consolidated revenue 7,153,375 100% 6,047,244 100% 18% Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 582,894 40% 638,362 60% (9% ) International transaction processing 306,314 21% 228,226 22% 34% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 831,065 57% 630,918 60% 32% Subtotal: Operating segments 1,720,273 118% 1,497,506 142% 15% Corporate/Eliminations (251,622 ) (18% ) (439,152 ) (42% ) (43% ) Consolidated operating income 1,468,651 100% 1,058,354 100% 39% South African transaction processing In ZAR, revenue increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 (after excluding the impact of the recovery in fiscal 2014 of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract). The increase in segment revenues exclusive of such recovery was primarily due to more low-margin transaction fees generated from beneficiaries using the South African National Payment System and more inter-segment transaction processing activities. In addition, revenue from the distribution of social welfare grants grew modestly during the year and was in-line with the increase in unique welfare cardholder recipients, net of removal of invalid and fraudulent beneficiaries, offset by the loss of MediKredit revenue as a result of the sale of that business. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2015 and 2014 was 22% and 23%, respectively. Our operating margin for fiscal 2014 was positively impacted by the recovery of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract. Excluding the impact of this $26.6 million recovery from SASSA, our operating income margin for fiscal 2014 was 15%. Our fiscal 2015 operating income margin is higher than our adjusted fiscal 2014 operating income margin (of 15%) due to more higher-margin inter-segment transaction processing activities, the elimination of MediKredit losses and an increase in the number of beneficiaries paid in fiscal 2015. 52 International transaction-based activities Revenue increased primarily due to higher transaction volume at KSNET during fiscal 2015. Operating income during fiscal 2015 was higher due to increase in revenue contribution from KSNET, but partially offset by ZAZOO start-up costs in the United Kingdom and India. Operating income and margin for fiscal 2015, was also positively impacted by a refund of approximately $1.7 million that had been paid several years ago in connection with industry-wide litigation that has now been finalized. Operating income margin for fiscal 2015 and 2014 was 16% and 14%, respectively, and was higher in fiscal 2015 primarily due to the refund referred to above. Financial inclusion and applied technologies Financial inclusion and applied technologies revenue and operating income increased primarily due to higher prepaid airtime sales driven by the rollout of our prepaid airtime product, an increase in the number of UEPS-based loans as we rolled out our product nationally, and, in ZAR, an increase in intersegment revenues. Fiscal 2014 operating income includes expenses related to the national rollout of our UEPS-based lending offering and the establishment of the allowance for doubtful finance loans in fiscal 2014. Smart Life did not contribute to operating income in fiscal 2015 and 2014 due to the FSB suspension of its license. Notwithstanding the national rollout expenses incurred in fiscal 2014, operating income margin for the Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment decreased to 27% from 29%, primarily as a result of more low-margin prepaid airtime and the sale of competitively-priced financial inclusion products to address the needs of the broader market. Corporate/ Eliminations The decrease in our corporate expenses was primarily due to the non-cash charge in fiscal 2014 related to the equity instruments issued pursuant to our BEE transactions, lower U.S. government investigations-related and U.S. lawsuit expenses, audit fees and other corporate head office-related expenses. Our corporate expenses also include acquisition-related intangible asset amortization; expenditure related to compliance with Sarbanes; non-employee directors fees; employee and executive bonuses; stock-based compensation; audit fees; directors and officers insurance premiums; telecommunications expenses; property-related expenditures including utilities, rental, security and maintenance; and elimination entries. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2016, our cash balances were $223.6 million, which comprised U.S. dollar-denominated balances of $125.7 million, ZAR-denominated balances of ZAR 1.1 billion ($72.4 million), KRW-denominated balances of KRW 19.5 billion ($16.9 million) and other currency deposits, primarily euro, of $8.6 million. The increase in our cash balances from June 30, 2015, was primarily due to the cash received from issue of our common stock to the IFC Investors and the expansion of all of our core businesses, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against our primary functional currencies, repurchase of shares of our common stock, provisional tax payments, acquisitions and capital expenditures. We currently believe that our cash and credit facilities are sufficient to fund our future operations for at least the next four quarters. We generally invest the surplus cash held by our South African operations in overnight call accounts that we maintain at South African banking institutions, and surplus cash held by our non-South African companies in the U.S. and other money markets. We have invested surplus cash in South Korea in short-term investment accounts at South Korean banking institutions. Historically, we have financed most of our operations, research and development, working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions through our internally generated cash. When considering whether to borrow under our financing facilities, we consider the cost of capital, cost of financing, opportunity cost of utilizing surplus cash and availability of tax efficient structures to moderate financing costs. We have a short-term South African credit facility with Nedbank Limited of ZAR 400 million ($27.1 million), which consists of (i) a primary amount of up to ZAR 200 million, which is immediately available, and (ii) a secondary amount of up to ZAR 200 million, which is not immediately available. The primary amounts comprises an overdraft facility of up to ZAR 50 million and indirect and derivative facilities of up to ZAR 150 million, which includes letters of guarantee, letters of credit and forward exchange contracts. As of June 30, 2016, we have used none of the overdraft and ZAR 131.1 million ($8.9 million) of the indirect and derivative facilities to obtain foreign exchange contracts and to support guarantees issued by Nedbank to various third parties on our behalf. Refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for more information about the terms of this facility. 53 As of June 30, 2016, we had outstanding long-term debt of KRW 59.7 billion (approximately $51.8 million translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2016) under credit facilities with a group of South Korean banks. The loans bear interest at the South Korean CD rate in effect from time to time (1.61% as of June 30, 2016) plus a margin of 3.10% for one of the term loan facilities and the revolver and a margin of 2.90% for the other term loan facility. We made a scheduled repayment of KRW 10 billion ($8.7 million) on April 29, 2016. Scheduled remaining repayments of the term loans and loan under the revolving credit facility are as follows: April 2017 and 2018 (KRW 10 billion each) and October 2018 (KRW 30 billion plus all outstanding loans under our revolving credit facility). On July 29, 2016, we prepaid KRW 20 billion ($17.3 million) of the Facility A loan and KRW 10 billion ($8.7 million) of our Facility C revolving credit facility; both prepayments were translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2016. Following the subsequent unscheduled debt repayments, we had outstanding long-term debt of KRW 30.0 billion (approximately $26.0 million translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2016). Refer to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for more information about the terms of this facility. We have a unique cash flow cycle due to the funding mechanism under our SASSA contact and our pre-funding of certain merchants. We generally receive the grant funds 48 hours prior to the provision of the service in a trust account and any interest we earn on these amounts is for the benefit of SASSA. We are required to initiate payments before the start of the pay cycle month in order to have cash, merchant and interbank funds available when the payment cycle commences and this process requires that we have access to the grant funds to be paid. These funds are recorded as settlement assets and liabilities. Historically, we opened the pay cycle at certain participating merchants a few days before the payment of grants at pay sites, however, currently we do not commence the payment cycle at participating merchants before the start of the pay cycle month. We use our funds to pre-fund certain merchants for grants paid through our merchant acquiring system on our behalf a day or two before the pay cycle opens. We typically reimburse merchants that are not pre-funded within 48 hours after they distribute the grants to the social welfare recipient cardholders. In addition, as a transaction processor, we receive cash from: customers on whose behalf we processes off-payroll payments that we will disburse to customer employees, payroll-related payees and other payees designated by the customer; and credit card companies (as well as other types of payment services) which have business relationships with merchants selling goods and services via the internet in South Korea and through Transact24 that are our customers and on whose behalf we process the transactions between various parties and settle the funds from the credit card companies to our merchant customers. These funds do not represent cash that is available to us and we present these funds, and the associated liability, outside of our current assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Movements in these cash balances are presented in investing activities and movements in the obligations are presented in financing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. Cash flows from operating activities In ZAR, cash flows from operating activities for fiscal 2016 increased to $116.6 million (ZAR 1.7 billion) from $135.3 million (ZAR 1.5 billion) for fiscal 2015. Excluding the impact of interest received, interest paid under our Korean debt and taxes presented in the table below, the increase in cash from operating activities resulted from improved trading activity during fiscal 2016. During fiscal 2016, we paid interest of $3.3 million under our South Korean debt facility. Cash flows from operating activities for fiscal 2015 increased to $135.3 million (ZAR 1.5 billion) from $37.1 million (ZAR 386.2 million) for fiscal 2014. Excluding the impact of interest received, interest paid under our Korean debt and taxes presented in the table below, the increase in cash from operating activities resulted from improved trading activity during fiscal 2015. During fiscal 2015, we paid interest of $3.6 million under our South Korean debt facility. During fiscal 2016, we made a first provisional tax payment of $16.0 million (ZAR 239.9 million) and a second provisional tax payment of $13.7 million (ZAR 207.3 million) related to our 2016 tax year in South Africa. We paid dividend withholding taxes of $4.2 million (ZAR 60.0 million). We also paid taxes totaling $5.0 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily South Korea. During fiscal 2015, we made a first provisional tax payment of $18.9 million (ZAR 217.2 million) and a second provisional tax payment of $16.2 million (ZAR 199.8 million) related to our 2015 tax year in South Africa. We also paid taxes totaling $7.6 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily South Korea. 54 Taxes paid during fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Table 11 Year ended June 30, 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR 000 000 000 000 000 000 First provisional payments 15,956 18,910 13,292 239,939 217,241 137,773 Second provisional payments 13,733 16,234 25,004 207,329 199,779 266,573 Taxation paid related to prior years 3,436 2,408 228 46,840 26,395 2,360 Taxation refunds received (176 ) (468 ) (36 ) (2,402 ) (5,396 ) (400 ) Dividend withholding taxation 4,183 737 - 60,000 8,702 - Total South African 37,132 37,821 38,488 551,706 446,721 406,306 Foreign, primarily South Korea 4,991 7,638 3,929 74,844 86,857 41,506 Total tax paid 42,123 45,459 42,417 626,550 533,578 447,812 We expect to pay additional second provisional payments in South Africa of approximately $1.1 million (ZAR 15.9 million translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2016) related to our 2016 tax year in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Cash flows from investing activities Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2016 includes capital expenditure of $35.8 million (ZAR 514.9 million), primarily for the acquisition of payment processing terminals in Korea and the rollout of ATMs in South Africa. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2015 includes capital expenditure of $36.4 million (ZAR 416.4 million), primarily for the acquisition of payment processing terminals in Korea and the rollout of ATMs in South Africa. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2014 includes capital expenditure of $23.9 million (ZAR 248.5 million), primarily for the acquisition of payment processing terminals in South Korea. We paid approximately $14.8 million and $1.7 million, respectively, net of cash received, to acquire 60% of Masterpayment and approximately 56% of Transact24s ordinary shares. We also exercised our rights under the Finbond rights offer and paid approximately $8.9 million (ZAR 136.1 million) to acquire an additional 40,733,723 shares of common stock of Finbond. During fiscal 2015, we paid $13.2 million for non-controlling interests in businesses based in Nigeria and Hong Kong. Cash flows from financing activities During fiscal 2016, we received approximately $107.7 million from the issue of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock and approximately $3.8 million from the exercise of stock options. We made scheduled Korean long-term debt repayments of approximately $8.7 million, and utilized approximately $2.1 million of our Korean borrowings to pay quarterly interest due. We also acquired 2,426,704 shares of our common stock and paid approximately $26.6 million during fiscal 2016 and the remaining $0.5 million on July 1, 2016, related to these repurchases and, in June 2016, paid approximately $11.2 million for all of the shares of Masterpayment that we did not already own. During fiscal 2015, we made a scheduled Korean debt repayment of $14.1 million, repurchased BVIs remaining 1,837,432 shares of Net1 common stock for approximately $9.2 million, received $1.4 million from BVI for 12.5% of CPS issued and outstanding ordinary shares and paid a dividend of $1.0 million to certain of our non-controlling interests. We also utilized approximately $3.8 million of our Korean borrowings to pay quarterly interest due and received approximately $2.0 million from the exercise of stock options. During fiscal 2014, we refinanced our South Korean debt and used $70.6 million of these new borrowings and $16.4 million of our surplus cash to repay the $87.0 million due under our old facility. In addition, we paid the facility fees related to our new South Korean borrowings of approximately $0.9 million. During fiscal 2014, we utilized approximately $2.1 million of these new borrowings to pay quarterly interest due in South Korea. During fiscal 2014, we paid approximately $2.0 million for substantially all of the shares of KSNET that we did not already own. We utilized our South African short-term facility during fiscal 2014 and have repaid the full amount outstanding as of June 30, 2014. 55 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures for the years ended June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Table 12 Year ended June 30, 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR Operating Segment 000 000 000 000 000 000 South African transaction processing 5,101 7,008 3,425 73,374 80,084 35,608 International transaction processing 28,029 28,205 19,393 403,174 322,312 201,621 Financial inclusion and applied technologies 2,667 1,223 1,088 38,363 13,976 11,312 Consolidated total 35,797 36,436 23,906 514,911 416,372 248,541 Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, are discussed under Liquidity and Capital ResourcesCash flows from investing activities. All of our capital expenditures for the past three fiscal years were funded through internally-generated funds. We had outstanding capital commitments as of June 30, 2016, of $0.1 million related mainly to computer equipment required to maintain and expand operations. We expect to fund these expenditures through internally-generated funds. In addition to these capital expenditures, we expect that capital spending for fiscal 2017 will also relate to expanding our operations in South Korea and South Africa. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2016: Table 13 Payments due by Period, as of June 30, 2016 (in $ 000s) Less More than 1 1-3 3-5 than 5 Total year years years years Long-term debt obligations (A) 57,092 11,454 45,638 - - Operating lease obligations 9,471 5,334 4,048 89 - Purchase obligations 3,086 3,086 - - - Capital commitments 88 88 - - - Other long-term obligations (B) 2,376 - - - 2,376 Total 72,113 19,962 49,686 89 2,376 (A) Includes $51.8 million of long-term debt discussed under Liquidity and capital resources and includes interest payable at the rate applicable as of June 30, 2016. (B) Includes policy holder liabilities of $1.6 million related to our insurance business. (C) We have excluded cross-guarantees in the aggregate amount of $8.6 million issued as of June 30, 2016, to Nedbank to secure guarantees it has issued to third parties on our behalf as the amounts that will be settled in cash are not known and the timing of any payments is uncertain. 56