Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Currency Exchange Rate Information." Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. It may also have a negative impact on our stock price. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in U.S. dollars or euros. We have used forward contracts in order to hedge our economic exposure to the ZAR/U.S. dollar and ZAR/euro exchange rate fluctuations from these foreign currency transactions. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. South Africa's high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment, relative to peer countries in Africa and other emerging economies, and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in the rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. In addition, South Africa has a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the electricity supply disruptions in South Africa, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth. Our businesses in South Africa are dependent on electricity generated and supplied by the state-owned utility, Eskom, in order to operate. In recent years, Eskom has been unable to generate and supply the amount of electricity required by South Africans, and the entire country experienced significant and often unpredictable electricity supply disruptions. Eskom has implemented a number of short- and long-term mitigation plans to correct these issues but supply disruptions continue to occur regularly and with no predictability. Eskom requires significant funding from the South African government in order to continue to operate. As part of our business continuity programs, we have installed back-up diesel generators in order for us to continue to operate our core data processing facilities in Cape Town and Johannesburg in the event of intermittent disruptions to our electricity supply. We have to perform regular monitoring and maintenance of these generators as well as sourcing and managing diesel fuel levels. We may also be required to replace these generators on a more frequent basis due to the additional burden placed on them. Our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth could be adversely affected if Eskom is unable raise sufficient funding to operate and/ or to commission new electricity-generating power stations in accordance with its plans, or at all, or if we are unable to effectively and efficiently test, maintain, source fuel for and replace our generators. 16 The economy of South Africa is exposed to high inflation, interest rates and rates of corporate tax, which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. Furthermore, the South African government requires additional income to fund future government expenditures and may be required, among other things, to increase existing income taxes rates, including the corporate income tax rate, amend existing tax legislation or introduce additional taxes. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest rates that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. Higher interest rates increase the cost of our debt financing, though conversely they also increase the amount of income we earn on any cash balances. The South African corporate income tax rate, of 28%, is higher than the U.S. federal income tax rate, of 21%. The South African government has announced a number of programs and initiatives that may require funding from a variety of sources, including from an increase in existing tax rates, including the corporate income tax rate; amendments to existing South African tax legislation; or through the introduction of additional taxes. An increase in the effective South African corporate income tax rate will adversely impact our profitability and cash flow generation. South African exchange control regulations could hinder our ability to make foreign investments and obtain foreign-denominated financing. South Africa's exchange control regulations restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area, without the prior approval of the South African Reserve Bank, or SARB. While the South African government has relaxed exchange controls in recent years, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measures in the foreseeable future. Although Net1 is a U.S. corporation and is not itself subject to South African exchange control regulations, these regulations do restrict the ability of our South African subsidiaries to raise and deploy capital outside the Common Monetary Area, to borrow money in currencies other than the South African rand and to hold foreign currency. Exchange control restrictions may also affect the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Net1 unless the affected subsidiary can show that any payment of such dividend will not place it in an over-borrowed position. As of June 30, 2020, approximately 20% of our cash and cash equivalents (excluding restricted cash) were held by our South African subsidiaries. Exchange control regulations could make it difficult for our South African subsidiaries to: (i) export capital from South Africa; (ii) hold foreign currency or incur indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies without the approval of SARB; or (iii) acquire an interest in a foreign venture without the approval of SARB and first having complied with the investment criteria of SARB. Under current exchange control regulations, SARB approval would be required for any acquisition of our company which would involve payment to our South African shareholders of any consideration other than South African rand. This restriction could limit our management in its ability to consider strategic options and thus, our shareholders may not be able to realize a premium over the current trading price of our shares. Operating in South Africa and other emerging markets subjects us to greater risks than those we would face if we operated in more developed markets. Emerging markets such as South Africa, as well as some of the other markets in which we have investments or operations, including African countries outside South Africa and South and Southeast Asia, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets. While we focus our business primarily on emerging markets because that is where we perceive to be the greatest opportunities to market our products and services successfully, the political, economic and market conditions in many of these markets present risks that could make it more difficult to operate our business successfully. Some of these risks include: political and economic instability, including higher rates of inflation and currency fluctuations; high levels of corruption, including bribery of public officials; loss due to civil strife, acts of war or terrorism, guerrilla activities and insurrection; a lack of well-developed legal systems which could make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights; logistical, utilities (including electricity and water supply) and communications challenges; potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including import and export license requirements and restrictions, tariffs, legal structures and tax laws; difficulties in staffing and managing operations and ensuring the safety of our employees; restrictions on the right to convert or repatriate currency or export assets; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; indigenization and empowerment programs; exposure to liability under the UK Bribery Act; and exposure to liability under U.S. securities and foreign trade laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and regulations established by the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. 17 exposure to liability under U.S. securities and foreign trade laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and regulations established by the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. Many of these countries and regions are in various stages of developing institutions and political, legal and regulatory systems that are characteristic of democracies. However, institutions in these countries and regions may not yet be as firmly established as they are in democracies in the developed world. Many of these countries and regions are also in the process of transitioning to a market economy and, as a result, are experiencing changes in their economies and their government policies that can affect our investments in these countries and regions. Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the new legal and regulatory regimes in these countries and regions are still being developed and, therefore, existing laws and regulations may be applied inconsistently. In some circumstances, it may not be possible to obtain the legal remedies provided under those laws and regulations in a timely manner. As the political, economic and legal environments remain subject to continuous development, investors in these countries and regions face uncertainty as to the security of their investments. Any unexpected changes in the political or economic conditions in these or neighboring countries or others in the region may have a material adverse effect on the investments that we have made or may make in the future, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Risks Relating to Government Regulation The South African National Credit Regulator has applied to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd, as a credit provider. If the registration is cancelled, we will not be able to provide loans to our customers, which would harm our business. Moneyline provides microloans to our EPE cardholders. Moneyline is a registered credit provider under the South African National Credit Act, or NCA, and is required to comply with the NCA in the operation of its lending business. In September 2014, the South African National Credit Regulator, or NCR, applied to the National Consumer Tribunal to cancel Moneyline's registration, based on an investigation concluded by the NCR. The NCR has alleged, among other things, that Moneyline contravened the NCA by including child support grants and foster child grants in the affordability assessments performed by Moneyline prior to granting credit to these borrowers, and that the procedures followed and documentation maintained by Moneyline are not in accordance with the NCA. We believe that Moneyline has conducted its business in compliance with NCA and we are opposing the NCR's application. However, if the NCR's application is successful, Moneyline would be prohibited from operating its microlending business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are required to comply with certain laws and regulations, including economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We are subject to U.S. and other trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of various foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign trade control laws and regulations, including various export controls and economic sanctions programs, such as those administered by OFAC, as well as European sanctions. We monitor compliance in accordance with the 10 principles as set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development recommendations relating to corruption, and the International Labor Organization Protocol in terms of certain of the items to be monitored. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating trade control laws as well as sanctions regulations. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain sanctioned countries, persons and entities. In addition, because we act through dealers and distributors, we face the risk that our dealers, distributors and customers might further distribute our products to a sanctioned person or entity, or an ultimate end-user in a sanctioned country, which might subject us to an investigation concerning compliance with OFAC or other sanctions regulations. Violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international trade control laws and regulations, including trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, and provide regular training to our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. 18 However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion in developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships, could increase the risk of OFAC violations in the future. In addition, our payment processing activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under the various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We are required to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the FCPA and UK Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate our business, which could adversely impact our future growth. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business, or securing any improper business advantage. It also requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. In addition, we have to comply with the UK Bribery Act which includes provisions that extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals not employed by a government. The provisions of the UK Bribery Act are also more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Some of the international locations in which we operate, lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the FCPA could subject us to substantial penalties. In addition, the requirement that we comply with the FCPA could put us at a competitive disadvantage with companies that are not required to comply with the FCPA or could otherwise harm our business. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a commonly accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us by foreign officials. Violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international anti-corruption laws and regulations, and provide regular training to our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Since less developed countries present some of the best opportunities for us to expand our business internationally, restrictions against entering into transactions with those foreign countries, as well as with certain entities and individuals in those countries, can adversely affect our ability to grow our business. We do not have a South African banking license and, therefore, we provide our EPE solution through an arrangement with a third-party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our EPE business without alternate means of access to a banking license. The South African retail banking market is highly regulated. Under current law and regulations, our EPE business activities require us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. We are not currently so registered, but we have an agreement with Grindrod Bank that enables us to implement our EPE program in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If the agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate these services unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. We are also dependent on Grindrod Bank to defend us against attacks from the other South African banks who may regard our products as disruptive to their funds transfer or other businesses and may seek governmental or other regulatory intervention. Furthermore, we have to comply with the strict anti-money laundering and customer identification regulations of the SARB when we open new bank accounts for our customers and when they transact. Failure to effectively implement and monitor these regulations may result in significant fines or prosecution of Grindrod Bank and ourselves. We have commenced issuing consumer banking products through our relationship with Finbond, in the form of our Kanako and Infinity products, with Finbond taking the place of Grindrod in respect of these products. However, it would not be readily achievable to transfer our EPE solution from Grindrod to Finbond. 19 In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. Smart Life was granted an Authorized Financial Service Provider, or FSP, license on June 9, 2015, and Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd and Net1 Mobile Solutions (Pty) Ltd were each granted FSP licenses on July 11, 2017. If our FSP licenses are cancelled, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa. Furthermore, the proposed Conduct of Financial Institutions Bill will make significant changes to the current licensing regime. While the proposals currently indicate that existing licenses will be converted, if we are not successful in our efforts to obtain a conversion of the existing licenses, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa. We may be subject to regulations regarding privacy, data use and/or security, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulations in a number of the countries in which we operate relating to the processing (which includes, inter alia , the collection, use, retention, security and transfer) of personal information about the people (whether natural or juristic) who use our products and services, in particular, "Know Your Customer" and personal financial information. Laws in this area, such as POPI and GDPR, have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. The Protection of Personal Information Act, or POPI, took effect on July 1, 2020, in South Africa. POPI requires that all forms of processing of personal information must, within one year after the commencement thereof, conform to the conditions of lawful processing set out in POPI. We are required to comply with the conditions contained in POPI by June 30, 2021. Contravention of POPI could result in (a) the imposition of fines by the Information Regulator; (b) imprisonment for a period of between 12 months to ten years of any person who hinders, obstructs or unlawfully influences the Information Regulator; or who is a responsible party, as defined under POPI, and commits unlawful acts; (c) and/or a damages claim instituted by the data subject(s). In addition, the Information Officer (which is an automatic position held by the chief executive officer, managing director or head of the organization) may be held criminally liable. An Information Officer is required to be registered with the Information Regulator. The General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, took effect on May 25, 2018, in the European Union as well as the European Economic Area and introduced direct compliance obligations for data controllers and data processors. National Data Protection Agencies, or NDPAs, are now able to impose fines for violations ranging from 2% to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or 10 million to 20 million euro, whichever is greater. NDPAs have the power to carry out audits, request information, and obtain access to premises. Businesses must be able to demonstrate that the personal data of any data subject can be lawfully processed on one of the six specified grounds. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Amendments to the NCA were signed into law in South Africa in August 2019. Compliance with these amendments may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. In August 2019, the National Credit Amendment Bill, or debt-relief bill, was signed into law in South Africa. The effective date of the debt-relief bill has not yet been announced. We believe that the debt-relief bill will restrict the ability of financial services providers to provide lending products to certain low-income earners and will increase the cost of credit to these consumers. As a result, compliance with the debt-relief bill may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. The debt-relief bill is a debt-relief intervention that forms part of an amendment to the NCA and is intended to assist over-indebted individuals who earn less than a prescribed monthly minimum, currently ZAR 7,500, and have unsecured debt of no more than ZAR 50,000. Individuals that have not commenced a debt counseling process, have not been sequestrated and are not subject to an administration order may seek debt relief under the debt-relief bill. Applications for debt relief are expected to be processed by the NCR and will then be submitted to the National Consumer Tribunal, or NCT. The NCR will first assess whether an applicant can meet its debt obligations by paying a lower installment over an extended period of no more than five years, a so-called debt re-arrangement. This process is similar to the debt counseling provisions in existing legislation, except the applicant would not pay for the debt counselor and therefore does not enjoy the services of the counselor. If the applicant has no income, the NCR will recommend that the applicant's debts be suspended for 24 months in the hopes that the applicant's circumstances improve in order to service the debt over time. 20 During this period, interest and fees under the debt arrangement will cease and the applicant is required to attend a financial literacy program provided by the NCR. If the applicant's circumstances improve during this period, and the applicant is able to meet its debt obligations, the NCR will recommend a debt re-arrangement to the NCT. If the applicant's circumstances do not improve after 24 months, the NCR will apply to the NCT for the debt to be written off. A credit provider may not enforce any rights under a credit agreement if the associated debt is written off. All or part of a credit agreement will be deemed reckless under the NCA if a credit provider enters into a credit agreement (other than a consolidated loan) with an applicant while under debt relief. An applicant furnishing false information when applying for debt relief may be fined or imprisoned for not longer than two years, or both, and is permanently prohibited from applying for debt relief. We expect that it will take us, and other financial services providers, some time to fully understand, interpret and implement this new legislation in our lending processes and practices. Non-compliance with the provisions of this new legislation may result in financial loss and penalties, reputational loss or other administrative punishment. Risks Relating to our Common Stock We may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We are an operating company whose business is focused on developing and offering payment solutions, transaction processing services and financial technologies across multiple industries and in a number of emerging and developed economies, directly and through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, as well as through strategic partnering arrangements with companies. In such circumstances, we typically acquire a minority interest in an operating company in which a strategic partner also has an interest. While the relevant strategic partner may have primary responsibility for, among other things, the day-to-day business operations of the relevant strategic partnership, we typically retain certain elements of control, such as the ability to vote for or appoint members to the board (or equivalent) of such strategic partnerships, our input into management of those partnerships, and/or major decision rights with respect to operations. Our conduct, public filings and announcements hold us out as such an operating company and do not hold us out as being engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Nevertheless, certain of our strategic partnering arrangements may be deemed to be investment securities within the meaning of Section 3(a)(2) of the Investment Company Act. These holdings have had and continue to have uncertain and fluctuating values which could cause us to be deemed to be an investment company within the meaning of Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act if their values are determined to exceed 40 percent of the value of our total assets (exclusive of government securities, cash and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis unless another exception or exemption applies. In addition, during the last several months, our cash balances have meaningfully increased as a proportion of our total assets as we completed the planned disposition of some our wholly-owned subsidiaries and our interest in one of our strategic partners, Also, and in light of recent economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we cancelled our option to acquire an additional interest in Bank Frick which would have resulted in us increasing our equity holding in Bank Frick from 35% to 70%. We have not yet redeployed this cash into our operating businesses. Regardless of the value of our strategic partnering arrangements at any particular time, we believe we should be viewed as primarily engaged in a business other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities. In order to resolve our status more formally, we are in the process of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission an application pursuant to Section 3(b)(2) of the Investment Company Act for an order declaring that we are not an investment company as defined in the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed an investment company and not entitled to an exception or exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act, we would have to register as an investment company, modify our equity interests or otherwise change our business so that it falls outside the definition of an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If the Securities and Exchange Commission does not grant us the order, compliance with the Investment Company Act would limit our ability to continue our strategic partnering arrangements and may require us to significantly restructure our business plan, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Registering as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act could, among other things, materially limit our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions and otherwise would subject us to substantial and costly regulation. Failure to register, if required, would significantly impair our ability to continue to engage in our business and would have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has experienced recent significant volatility. During the 2020 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $2.70 to a high of $4.45. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: any adverse developments in litigation or regulatory actions in which we are involved; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate; announcement of additional BEE transactions, especially one involving the issuance or potential issuance of equity securities or dilution or sale of our existing business in South Africa; quarterly variations in our operating results, especially if our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors; significant fair value adjustments in respect of investments; significant impairment of investments; announcements of acquisitions, disposals or impairments of intangible assets; 21 the timing of or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of investments or major projects; large purchases or sales of our common stock; general conditions in the markets in which we operate; and economic and financial conditions. The put right we have agreed to grant to the IFC Investors on the occurrence of certain triggering events may have adverse impacts on us. In May 2016, we issued an aggregate of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock to the IFC Investors, of which, as of June 30, 2020, the IFC Investors held 7,881,142 shares. We granted the IFC Investors certain rights, including the right to require us to repurchase any share held by the IFC Investors pursuant to the May 2016 transaction upon the occurrence of specified triggering events, which we refer to as a "put right." Events triggering the put right relate to (1) us being the subject of a governmental complaint alleging, a court judgment finding or an indictment alleging that we (a) engaged in specified corrupt, fraudulent, coercive, collusive or obstructive practices; (b) entered into transactions with targets of economic sanctions; or (c) failed to operate our business in compliance with anti-money laundering or anti-terrorism laws; or (2) our rejection of a bona fide offer to acquire all of our outstanding shares at a time when we have in place or implement a shareholder rights plan, or adopt a shareholder rights plan triggered by a beneficial ownership threshold of less than twenty percent. The put price per share will be the higher of the price per share paid to us by the IFC Investors and the volume-weighted average price per share prevailing for the 60 trading days preceding the triggering event, except that with respect to a put right triggered by rejection of a bona fide offer, the put price per share will be the highest price offered by the offeror. If a put triggering event occurs, it could adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, the existence of the put right could also affect whether or on what terms a third party might in the future offer to purchase our company. Our response to any such offer could also be complicated, delayed or otherwise influenced by the existence of the put right. Approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with those of our other shareholders. There is a concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock because approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. Based on their most recent SEC filings disclosing ownership of our shares, Value Capital Partners (Pty) Ltd, or VCP, and IFC Investors, beneficially own approximately 16% and 14% of our outstanding common stock, respectively. VCP has agreed, pursuant to a Cooperation Agreement dated May 13, 2020, to refrain from acquiring more than 19.9% of our outstanding common stock or taking certain actions, including acting in concert with others, that could result in a change of control of the Company. These restrictions remain in effect through the date of our 2021 annual meeting of shareholders. The interests of VCP and the IFC Investors may be different from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of the significant combined ownership by VCP and the IFC Investors, subject to the limitations applicable to VCP contained in the Cooperation Agreement, they will be able, if they act together, to significantly influence the voting outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, thus depriving shareholders of a premium for their shares, or facilitating a change of control that other shareholders may oppose. We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. 22 We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations or acquisitions as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies, to expand into new markets and to make acquisitions, all of which may be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations or to acquire other businesses, issue shares in a BEE transaction, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders. In addition, additional shares that we issue would likely be freely tradable which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not remediated, could result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, we are required to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a "material weakness" or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A "material weakness" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal control also applies to companies that we acquire. Some of these companies may not be required to comply with Sarbanes prior to the time we acquire them. The integration of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting could require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. If we fail to successfully integrate the operations of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. During fiscal 2019, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting where the control over the review of the accounting for non-routine complex transactions did not operate effectively. As a result, the control did not operate effectively in determining the correct classification in the statement of operations of the $34.0 million accrual for the implementation costs to be refunded to SASSA following the September 30, 2019 Supreme Court ruling. During the current fiscal year, we have implemented additional controls to address this matter, but have had insufficient instances of non-routine complex transactions to be able to assess whether these additional controls are operating effectively. Accordingly, the material weakness remains unremediated as of June 30, 2020. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure