Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsDevelopments During Fiscal 2018 CPS and SASSA Contract Termination. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations and the integration of these acquisitions or their businesses will require significant attention from our senior management which may divert their attention from our day to day business. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to maintain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. For instance, in March 2018, we recorded an impairment loss of $19.9 million related to the goodwill identified in the Masterpayment and Masterpayment Financial Services acquisitions. Finally, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. 15 We may not achieve the expected benefits from our recent Cell C and DNI investments. We have invested more than $240 million, in aggregate, to acquire a 15% interest in Cell C and a 55% controlling interest in DNI. We believe that there are potential synergies that we can derive from each of these transactions, including the integration of certain of our service offerings with those of Cell C and DNI. However, we may not realize some or any of the benefits we expect to achieve from these investments. Attempting to integrate these service offerings may be disruptive to us, and we may not be able to integrate these offerings successfully. Even if we are able to achieve this integration, our customers may not use these services to the extent that we expect they will. Any such failure could adversely impact our business or the businesses of Cell C and DNI, which could, in turn, reduce the value of our investments in them. Additionally, attempting to integrate Cell Cs and DNIs offerings with our own may adversely impact our other business and operational relationships. Our inability to achieve the expected synergies from the Cell C and DNI transactions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, Cell C and DNI may not be able to successfully execute their respective business plans, which may adversely affect, or impair, the carrying value of our investments in them. DNI generates most of its revenue by providing services to or on behalf of Cell C, principally through the sale of mobile phone starter packs. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow would suffer materially if DNI were to lose its contractual relationships with Cell C. DNIs business comprises of a number of separate entities that are primarily involved in the distribution of mobile phone starter packs, mainly on behalf of Cell C. We also provide funding for the expansion of Cell Cs mobile telecommunications infrastructure. If Cell C were to terminate any of these contractual relationships that have multi-year notice periods, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow as a consequence of the impact on DNI. We have indebtedness that requires us to comply with restrictive and financial covenants. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, we could default on this debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We financed our investments in Cell C and DNI through South African bank borrowings of ZAR 1.46 billion, which has since reduced to ZAR 683.8 million through the Company meeting its scheduled repayments ($49.8 million, translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2018). The loans are secured by intercompany cross-guarantees and a pledge by Net1 Applied Technologies South Africa Proprietary Limited, or Net1 SA, of its entire equity interests in Cell C and DNI. The terms of the lending arrangement contain customary covenants that require Net1 SA to remain below a specified total net leverage ratio and restrict the ability of Net1 SA, and certain of its subsidiaries to make certain distributions with respect to their capital stock, prepay other debt, encumber their assets, incur additional indebtedness, make investment above specified levels, engage in certain business combinations and engage in other corporate activities without the approval of the lenders. In addition, DNI has obtained a three year revolving credit facility of ZAR 200 million ($14.6 million, translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2018) from Rand Merchant Bank, a division of FirstRand Bank Limited, a South African bank, to expand its operations. The revolving credit facility is secured by intercompany cross-guarantees within the DNI group and a pledge by DNI of its entire equity interests in its subsidiaries. The terms of the lending arrangement contain customary covenants that require DNI to remain in accordance with specified net senior debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to net senior interest ratios and restrict the ability of DNI, and certain of its subsidiaries to make certain distributions with respect to their capital stock, prepay other debt, encumber their assets, incur additional indebtedness, make investment above specified levels, engage in certain business combinations and engage in other corporate activities without the approval of the lenders. Although these covenants only apply to certain of our South African subsidiaries, these security arrangements and covenants may reduce our operating flexibility or our ability to engage in other transactions that may be beneficial to us. If we are unable to comply with the covenants in South Africa, we could be in default and the indebtedness could be accelerated. If this were to occur, we might not be able to obtain waivers of default or to refinance the debt with another lender and as a result, our business and financial condition would suffer. 16 We may be unable to secure the necessary facilities that will enable us to maintain the cash requirements for our ATM network The expansion of our fixed and mobile ATM network, along with an increase in our EPE client base, necessitates access to large amounts of cash to stock the ATMs and maintain uninterrupted service levels. While we have been able to operate our ATMs using our surplus cash and existing general credit facilities, any significant reduction in our available cash reserves or general credit facilities, or our failure to increase our facilities if required, will have an adverse impact on our ability to continue uninterrupted operation of our ATM network and our profits from this business. We will also suffer reputational damage if our service levels are negatively impacted due to the unavailability of cash. We face competition from the incumbent retail banks in South Africa and SAPO in the unbanked market segment, which could limit growth in our transaction-based activities segment. Certain South African banks have also developed their own low-cost banking products targeted at the unbanked and under-banked market segment. According to the 2016 FinScope survey, which is an annual survey conducted by the FinMark Trust, a non-profit independent trust, 77% of South Africans are banked (58% if SASSA account holders are excluded). As the competition to bank the unbanked in South Africa intensifies, we may not be successful in marketing our low-cost EasyPay Everywhere product to our target population. Moreover, as our product offerings increase, gain market acceptance and pose a competitive threat in South Africa, especially our UEPS/EMV product with biometric verification and our financial services offerings, the banks and SAPO may seek governmental or other regulatory intervention if they view us as disrupting their transactional or other businesses. Our microlending loan book exposes us to credit risk and our allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable may not be sufficient to absorb future write-offs. All of these microfinance loans made are for a period of six months or less. We have created an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable related to this book. Management has considered factors including the period of the finance loan outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers and the past payment history of the borrower when creating the allowance. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. However, additional allowances may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these finance loan receivables, including on-going evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. Furthermore, since the commencement of SASSAs process of transitioning grant recipients to SAPO accounts, we have seen an increased incidence of our customers changing their primary bank accounts to other commercial banks or to SAPO. This has increased our recoverability risk and the risk that out allowance is insufficient. Our working capital financing and supply chain solutions receivables expose us to credit risk and our allowance for doubtful working capital finance loans receivable may not be sufficient to absorb future write-offs. We have created an allowance for doubtful working capital finance receivables related to our Mastertrading business and our Korean lending activities. We have considered factors including the period of the working capital receivable outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers and the past payment history of the borrower when creating the allowance. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these and other working capital finance receivables because these are new offerings and we continue to refine and improve our processes, including the maximum amount of exposure per customer that we are willing to accept and the on-going evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. A determination that requires a change in our allowance for doubtful working capital finance receivables, or a failure by one or more of our customers to pay a significant portion of outstanding working capital finance receivables, could have a negative impact on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 17 We may face competition from other companies that offer innovative payment technologies and payment processing, which could result in the loss of our existing business and adversely impact our ability to successfully market additional products and services. Our primary competitors in the payment processing market include other independent processors, as well as financial institutions, independent sales organizations, and, potentially card networks. Many of our competitors are companies who are larger than we are and have greater financial and operational resources than we have. These factors may allow them to offer better pricing terms or incentives to customers, which could result in a loss of our potential or current customers or could force us to lower our prices as well. Either of these actions could have a significant effect on our revenues and earnings. In addition to competition that our UEPS system faces from the use of cash, checks, credit and debit cards, existing payment systems and the providers of financial services and low cost bank accounts, there are a number of other products that use smart card technology in connection with a funds transfer system. During the past several years, smart card technology has become increasingly prevalent. We believe that the most competitive product in this marketplace is EMV, a system that is promoted by most of the major card companies such as Visa, MasterCard, JCB and American Express. Also, governments and financial institutions are, to an increasing extent, implementing general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards as a low-cost alternative to provide financial services to the unbanked population. Moreover, as the acceptance of using a mobile phone to facilitate financial services has increased exponentially, other companies have introduced such services to the marketplace successfully and customers may prefer those services to ours, based on technology, price or other factors. A prolonged economic slowdown or lengthy or severe recession in South Africa or elsewhere could harm our operations. A prolonged economic downturn or recession could materially impact our results from operations. A recessionary economic environment could have a negative impact on mobile phone operators, our cardholders and retailers and could reduce the level of transactions we process, the sales of mobile phone starter packs, the take-up of the financial services we offer and the ability of our customers to repay our microloans or to pay their insurance premiums, which would, in turn, negatively impact our financial results. If financial institutions and retailers experience decreased demand for their products and services our hardware, software and related technology sales will reduce, resulting in lower revenue. The loss of the services of certain of our executive officers would adversely affect our business. Our future financial and operational performance depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management, in particular, Mr. Herman Kotz, our Chief Executive Officer. Many of our key responsibilities in South Africa are currently performed by Mr. Kotz, as well as by Messrs. Nanda Pillay, our Managing Director: Southern Africa and Nitin Soma, our Senior Vice President of Information Technology. The loss of the services of any of these executives would disrupt our development efforts or business relationships and our ability to continue to innovate and to meet customers needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. The success of our KSNET business depends heavily on the continued services of its president, Phil-Hyun Oh and the other senior members of the KSNET management team. In addition, the growth and future profitability of IPG is reliant on Mr. Philip Meyers leadership, industry knowledge and contacts. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. Similarly following the completion of our acquisition of DNI, the success of that business is heavily dependent on the continued involvement of Messrs. Andrew Dunn and Dave Smaldon and other senior officers of the DNI group of companies who have successfully built the business to its current position and are critical to its continued success. We face a highly competitive employment market and may not be successful in attracting and retaining a sufficient number of skilled employees, particularly in the technical and sales areas and senior management. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to develop new products and to market these products to our target users. In order to succeed in our product development and marketing efforts, we need to identify, attract, motivate and retain sufficient numbers of qualified technical and sales personnel. An inability to hire and retain such technical personnel would adversely affect our ability to enhance our existing intellectual property, to introduce new generations of technology and to keep abreast of current developments in technology. Demand for personnel with the range of capabilities and experience we require is high and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining these employees. The risk exists that our technical skills and sales base may be depleted over time because of natural attrition. Furthermore, social and economic factors in South Africa have led, and continue to lead, to numerous qualified individuals leaving the country, thus depleting the availability of qualified personnel in South Africa. In addition, our multi-country strategy will also require us to hire and retain highly qualified managerial personnel in each of these markets. 18 If we cannot recruit and retain people with the appropriate capabilities and experience and effectively integrate these people into our business, it could negatively affect our product development and marketing activities. System failures, including breaches in the security of our system, could harm our business. We may experience system failures from time to time, and any lengthy interruption in the availability of our back-end system computer could harm our revenues and profits, and could subject us to the scrutiny of our customers. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers and users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to avoid our technology altogether, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. These interruptions would increase the burden on our engineering staff, which, in turn, could delay our introduction of new applications and services. Finally, because our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim could be time consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Protection against fraud is of key importance to the purchasers and end users of our solutions. We incorporate security features, including encryption software, biometric identification and secure hardware, into our solutions to protect against fraud in electronic transactions and to provide for the privacy and integrity of card holder data. Our solutions may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted using our solutions. If the security of our solutions is compromised, our reputation and marketplace acceptance of our solutions will be adversely affected, which would cause our business to suffer, and we may become subject to damage claims. We have not yet experienced any significant security breaches affecting our business. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems with our system could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our current business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the sale of our UEPS products or services to that customer tends to be long and may be subject to delays, which may have an impact on our revenues. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our UEPS products and services is often long and subject to delays associated with the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that frequently accompany significant capital expenditures. A lengthy sales cycle may have an impact on the timing of our revenues, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fall below investor expectations. A customers decision to purchase our products and services is often discretionary, involves a significant commitment of resources, and is influenced by customer budgetary cycles. To sell our products and services successfully we generally must educate our potential customers regarding the uses and benefits of our products and services, which can require the expenditure of significant time and resources; however, there can be no assurance that this significant expenditure of time and resources will result in actual sales of our products and services. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies. Our success depends in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property protections, such as patents or trade secrets, cover them. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents. For example, we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patents and patent applications or to file patent applications and it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. It is possible that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies. Also, our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. 19 We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We have confidentiality agreements with employees, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached and or may not have adequate remedies for such breach. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants or others may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing technologies. We also rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for some of our products. To maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. Also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending trademark applications from challenge by third parties. Defending our intellectual property rights or defending ourselves in infringement suits that may be brought against us is expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful. Litigation to enforce our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights or to protect our trade secrets could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. Any loss of, or inability to protect, intellectual property in our technology could diminish our competitive advantage and also seriously harm our business. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws in countries where we currently have patent protection. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights in countries where we currently have patent or trademark protection, or any other country in which we operate, may not be adequate to fully protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, if third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be required to incur significant costs and devote substantial resources to the defense of such claims. We may be required to discontinue using and selling any infringing technology and services, to expend resources to develop non-infringing technology or to purchase licenses or pay royalties for other technology. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in defending any such third-party claims, we could suffer costly judgments and injunctions that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our strategy of partnering with companies outside South Africa may not be successful. In order for us to expand our operations into foreign markets, it may be necessary for us to establish partnering arrangements with companies outside South Africa, such as the one we have co-established in Namibia and our non-controlling investments in Nigeria, Liechtenstein and India. The success of these endeavors is, however, subject to a number of factors over which we have little or no control, such as finding suitable partners with the appropriate financial, business and technical backing and continued governmental support for planned implementations. In some countries, finding suitable partners and obtaining the appropriate support from the government involved may take a number of years before we can commence implementation. Some of these partnering arrangements may take the form of joint ventures in which we receive a non-controlling interest. Non-controlling ownership carries with it numerous risks, including dependence on partners to provide knowledge of local market conditions and to facilitate the acquisition of any necessary licenses and permits, as well as the inability to control the joint venture vehicle and to direct its policies and strategies. Such a lack of control could result in the loss of all or part of our investment in such entities. In addition, our foreign partners may have different business methods and customs which may be unfamiliar to us and with which we disagree. Our joint venture partners may not be able to implement our business model in new areas as efficiently and quickly as we have been able to do in South Africa. Furthermore, limitations imposed on our South African subsidiaries by South African exchange control regulations, as well as limitations imposed on us by the Investment Company Act of 1940, may limit our ability to establish partnerships or entities in which we do not obtain a controlling interest. We pre-fund certain merchant and customer payments in South Africa and South Korea and a significant level of payment defaults by these merchants or customers would adversely affect us. We pre-fund social welfare grants through the merchants who participate in our merchant acquiring system in the South African provinces where we operate. We also pre-fund the settlement of funds to certain customers in South Korea. These pre-funding obligations expose us to the risk of default by these merchants and customers. Although we have not experienced any material defaults by merchants or customers in the return of pre-funded amounts to us, we cannot guarantee that material defaults will not occur in the future. A material level of merchant or customer defaults could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial position and results of operations. We expect this risk to remain after the conclusion of the SASSA contract as we will continue to service our EasyPay Everywhere cardholders and our financial services branch and ATM networks. 20 We may incur material losses in connection with our distribution of cash through our payment infrastructure in South Africa. Many cardholders use our services to access cash using their debit cards. We use armored vehicles and our own fixed ATM infrastructure to deliver large amounts of cash to rural areas across South Africa to enable these cardholders to receive this cash. In some cases, we also store the cash that will be delivered by the armored vehicles in depots overnight or over the weekend to facilitate delivery to these rural areas. We cannot insure against certain risks of loss or theft of cash from our delivery vehicles, ATMs or depots and we will therefore bear the full cost of certain uninsured losses or theft in connection with the cash handling process, and such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We have not incurred any material losses resulting from cash distribution in recent years, but there is no assurance that we will not incur material losses in the future. We depend upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. We obtain our smart cards, ATMs, POS devices and the other hardware we use in our business from a limited number of suppliers, and do not manufacture this equipment ourselves. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our manufacturers or component suppliers. If our suppliers become unwilling or unable to provide us with adequate supplies of parts or products when we need them, or if they increase their prices, we may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner and could be faced with a critical shortage. This could harm our ability to implement new systems and cause our revenues to decline. Even if we are able to secure alternative sources in a timely manner, our costs could increase. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond current suppliers capabilities could harm our ability to distribute our equipment and thus, to acquire a new source of customers who use our UEPS technology. Any interruption in the supply of the hardware necessary to operate our technology, or our inability to obtain substitute equipment at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Our Smart Life business exposes us to risks typically experienced by life assurance companies. Smart Life is a life insurance company and exposes us to risks typically experienced by life assurance companies. Some of these risks include the extent to which we are able to continue to reinsure our risks at acceptable costs, reinsurer counterparty risk, maintaining regulatory capital adequacy, solvency and liquidity requirements, our ability to price our insurance products appropriately, the risk that actual claims experience may exceed our estimates, the ability to recover policy premiums from our customers and the competitiveness of the South African insurance market. If we are unable to maintain our desired level of reinsurance at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our exposure risk or reduce our insurance writings. If our reinsurers are unable to meet their commitments to us in a timely manner, or at all, we may be unable to discharge our obligations under our insurance contracts. As such, we are exposed to counterparty, including credit, risk of these reinsurers. Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and operating costs and expenses of the business. Using the wrong assumptions to price our insurance products could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If our actual claims experience is higher than our estimates, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Finally, the South African insurance industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are well-established, represented nationally and market similar products and we may not be able to effectively penetrate the South African insurance market. Risks Relating to Operating in South Africa and Other Foreign Markets If we do not achieve applicable broad-based black economic empowerment objectives in our South African businesses, we risk losing our government and/or private contracts and/or risk not being in compliance with any government and/or private contracts which we have already entered into. In addition, it is possible that we may be required to increase the black shareholding of our company in a manner that could dilute your ownership and/or change the companies from which we purchase goods or procure services (to companies with a better BEE Contributor Status Level). The legislative framework for the promotion of broad-based black economic empowerment, or BEE, in South Africa has been established through the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, No. 53 of 2003, as amended from time to time, and the Amended BEE Codes of Good Practice, 2013, or BEE Codes, any sector-specific codes of good practice, or Sector Codes, published pursuant thereto. Sector Codes are fully binding between and among businesses operating in a sector for which a Sector Code has been published. Achievement of BEE objectives is measured by a scorecard which establishes a weighting for the various elements. 21 Save for certain exempt entities (for example, micro enterprises and qualifying small enterprises), scorecards are independently reviewed by accredited BEE verification agencies which issue a certificate that presents an entitys BEE Contributor Status Level. Certain of our South African businesses are subject to either the Information, Communications and Technology Sector Code, or ICT Sector Code, or the Financial Services Sector Code. The ICT Sector Code has been amended and aligned with the new BEE Codes, and was promulgated on November 7, 2016. Likewise, the Financial Service Sector Code has been amended and aligned with the new BEE Codes, and was promulgated on December 1, 2017. We have taken a number of actions as a company to increase empowerment of black (as defined under applicable regulations) South Africans. However, it is possible that these actions may not be sufficient to enable us to achieve applicable BEE objectives. In that event, in order to avoid risking the loss of our government and private contracts, we may have to seek to comply through other means, including by selling or placing additional shares of Net1 or of our South African subsidiaries to black South Africans (either directly or indirectly). Such sales or placements of shares could have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. We expect that our BEE Contributor Status Level will be important for us in order to remain competitive in the South African marketplace and we continually seek ways to improve our BEE Contributor Status Level, especially the ownership (so-called equity element) element thereof. For instance, in April 2014, we implemented a BEE transaction pursuant to which we issued 4.4 million shares of our common stock to our BEE partners for ZAR 60.00 per share, which represented a 25% discount to the market price of our shares at the time that we negotiated the transaction. We entered into this transaction to improve our scoring on the ownership (equity) element of our BEE scorecard. We provided funding to the BEE partners in order for them to buy these shares from us. In June 2014, and in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements, we repurchased approximately 2.4 million of these shares of our common stock in order for the BEE partners to repay the loans we provided to them. Furthermore, in August 2014, we entered into a Subscription and Sale of Shares Agreement with Business Venture Investments No 1567 Proprietary Limited (RF), or BVI, one of our BEE partners, in preparation for any new potential SASSA tender. Pursuant to the aforesaid agreement, we repurchased BVIs remaining shares of Net1 common stock and BVI subscribed for new ordinary shares of CPS, representing approximately 12.5% of CPS ordinary shares outstanding after the subscription. It is possible that we may find it necessary to issue additional shares to improve our BEE Contributor Status Level. If we enter into further BEE transactions that involve the issuance of equity, we cannot predict what the dilutive effect of such a transaction would be on your ownership or how it would affect the market price of our stock. Fluctuations in the value of the South African rand have had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our reported results of operations, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business performance between reporting periods and may also adversely affect our stock price. The South African rand, or ZAR, is the primary operating currency for our business operations while our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. This means that as long as the ZAR remains our primary operating currency, depreciation in the ZAR against the U.S. dollar, and to a lesser extent, the South Korean won against the U.S. dollar, would negatively impact our reported revenue and net income, while a strengthening of the ZAR and the South Korean won would have the opposite effect. Depreciation in the ZAR may negatively impact the prices at which our stock trades. The U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate has historically been volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. We provide detailed information about historical exchange rates in Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCurrency Exchange Rate Information. Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. This difficulty may increase as we expand our business internationally and record additional revenue and expenses in the euro and other currencies. It may also have a negative impact on our stock price. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in U.S. dollars or euros. We have used forward contracts in order to hedge our economic exposure to the ZAR/U.S. dollar and ZAR/euro exchange rate fluctuations from these foreign currency transactions. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. 22 South Africas high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment, relative to peer countries in Africa and other emerging economies, and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in the rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. In addition, South Africa has a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the electricity supply disruptions in South Africa, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth. Our businesses in South Africa are dependent on electricity generated and supplied by the state-owned utility, Eskom, in order to operate. In recent years, Eskom has been unable to generate and supply the amount of electricity required by South Africans, and the entire country experienced significant and largely unpredictable electricity supply disruptions. Eskom has implemented a number of short- and long-term mitigation plans to correct these issues and the number of supply disruptions has decreased since calendar 2016. As part of our business continuity programs, we have installed back-up diesel generators in order for us to continue to operate our core data processing facilities in Cape Town and Johannesburg in the event of intermittent disruptions to our electricity supply. We have to perform regular monitoring and maintenance of these generators as well as sourcing and managing diesel fuel levels. We may also be required to replace these generators on a more frequent basis due to the additional burden placed on them. Our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth could be adversely affected if Eskom is unable to commission new electricity-generating power stations in accordance with its plans, or at all, or if we are unable to effectively and efficiently test, maintain, source fuel for and replace our generators. The economy of South Africa is exposed to high inflation and interest rates, which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest rates that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. Higher interest rates increase the cost of our debt financing, though conversely they also increase the amount of income we earn on any cash balances. South African exchange control regulations could hinder our ability to make foreign investments and obtain foreign-denominated financing. South Africas exchange control regulations restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area, without the prior approval of SARB. While the South African government has relaxed exchange controls in recent years, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measures in the foreseeable future. Although Net1 is a U.S. corporation and is not itself subject to South African exchange control regulations, these regulations do restrict the ability of our South African subsidiaries to raise and deploy capital outside the Common Monetary Area, to borrow money in currencies other than the South African rand and to hold foreign currency. Exchange control restrictions may also affect the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Net1 unless the affected subsidiary can show that any payment of such dividend will not place it in an over-borrowed position. As of June 30, 2018, approximately 54% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our South African subsidiaries. Exchange control regulations could make it difficult for our South African subsidiaries to: (i) export capital from South Africa; (ii) hold foreign currency or incur indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies without the approval of SARB; (iii) acquire an interest in a foreign venture without the approval of SARB and first having complied with the investment criteria of SARB; or (iv) repatriate to South Africa profits of foreign operations. These regulations could also limit our ability to utilize profits of one foreign business to finance operations of a different foreign business. 23 Under current exchange control regulations, SARB approval would be required for any acquisition of our company which would involve payment to our South African shareholders of any consideration other than South African rand. This restriction could limit our management in its ability to consider strategic options and thus, our shareholders may not be able to realize the premium over the current trading price of our shares. Most of South Africas major industries are unionized, and the majority of employees belong to trade unions. We face the risk of disruption from labor disputes and new South African labor laws. Trade unions have had a significant impact on the collective bargaining process as well as on social and political reform in South Africa in general. Although only approximately 1% percent of our South African workforce is unionized and we have not experienced any labor disruptions in recent years, such labor disruptions may occur in the future. In addition, developments in South African labor laws may increase our costs or alter our relationship with our employees and trade unions, which may have an adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our operations. Operating in South Africa and other emerging markets subjects us to greater risks than those we would face if we operated in more developed markets. Emerging markets such as South Africa, as well as some of the other markets into which we have recently begun to expand, including African countries outside South Africa, South and Southeast Asia and Central Europe, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets. While we focus our business primarily on emerging markets because that is where we perceive to be the greatest opportunities to market our products and services successfully, the political, economic and market conditions in many of these markets present risks that could make it more difficult to operate our business successfully. Some of these risks include: - political and economic instability, including higher rates of inflation and currency fluctuations; - high levels of corruption, including bribery of public officials; - loss due to civil strife, acts of war or terrorism, guerrilla activities and insurrection; - a lack of well-developed legal systems which could make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights; - logistical, utilities (including electricity and water supply) and communications challenges; - potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including import and export license requirements and restrictions, tariffs, legal structures and tax laws; - difficulties in staffing and managing operations and ensuring the safety of our employees; - restrictions on the right to convert or repatriate currency or export assets; - greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; - indigenization and empowerment programs; - exposure to liability under the U.K. Bribery Act; and - exposure to liability under U.S. securities and foreign trade laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and regulations established by the U.S. Department of Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. Many of these countries and regions are in various stages of developing institutions and political, legal and regulatory systems that are characteristic of democracies. However, institutions in these countries and regions may not yet be as firmly established as they are in democracies in the developed world. Many of these countries and regions are also in the process of transitioning to a market economy and, as a result, are experiencing changes in their economies and their government policies that can affect our investments in these countries and regions. Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the new legal and regulatory regimes in these countries and regions are still being developed and, therefore, existing laws and regulations may be applied inconsistently. In some circumstances, it may not be possible to obtain the legal remedies provided under those laws and regulations in a timely manner. As the political, economic and legal environments remain subject to continuous development, investors in these countries and regions face uncertainty as to the security of their investments. Any unexpected changes in the political or economic conditions in these or neighboring countries or others in the region may have a material adverse effect on the international investments that we have made or may make in the future, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 24 Risks Relating to Government Regulation The South African National Credit Regulator has applied to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd, as a credit provider. If the registration is cancelled, we will not be able to provide loans to our customers, which would harm our business. Moneyline provides microloans to our EasyPay Everywhere cardholders. Moneyline is a registered credit provider under the South African National Credit Act, or NCA, and is required to comply with the NCA in the operation of its lending business. In September 2014, the South African National Credit Regulator, or NCR, applied to the National Consumer Tribunal to cancel Moneylines registration, based on an investigation concluded by the NCR. The NCR has alleged, among other things, that Moneyline contravened the NCA by including child support grants and foster child grants in the affordability assessments performed by Moneyline prior to granting credit to these borrowers, and that the procedures followed and documentation maintained by Moneyline are not in accordance with the NCA. We believe that Moneyline has conducted its business in compliance with NCA and we are opposing the NCRs application. However, if the NCRs application is successful, Moneyline would be prohibited from operating its microlending business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are required to comply with certain U.S. laws and regulations, including economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We are subject to U.S. and other trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of various foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign trade control laws and regulations, including various export controls and economic sanctions programs, such as those administered by OFAC, as well as European sanctions. We monitor compliance in accordance with the 10 principles as set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development recommendations relating to corruption, and the International Labor Organization Protocol in terms of certain of the items to be monitored. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating trade control laws as well as sanctions regulations. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain sanctioned countries, persons and entities. In addition, because we act through dealers and distributors, we face the risk that our dealers, distributors and customers might further distribute our products to a sanctioned person or entity, or an ultimate end-user in a sanctioned country, which might subject us to an investigation concerning compliance with OFAC or other sanctions regulations. Violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international trade control laws and regulations, including trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, and provide regular training to our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued international expansion, including in developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships worldwide, could increase the risk of OFAC violations in the future. We are required to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate our business, which could adversely impact our future growth. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business, or securing any improper business advantage. It also requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. 25 In addition, we have to comply with the U.K. Bribery Act, or the U.K. Bribery Act, which includes provisions that extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals not employed by a government. The provisions of the U.K. Bribery Act are also more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Some of the international locations in which we operate, lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the FCPA could subject us to substantial penalties. In addition, the requirement that we comply with the FCPA could put us at a competitive disadvantage with companies that are not required to comply with the FCPA or could otherwise harm our business. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a commonly accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us by foreign officials. Our current and potential competitors may use U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA, to disrupt our business operations and harm our reputation in the territories in which we operate or in which we intend to expand into. For instance, as we have previously reported, in November 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice commenced an investigation into whether we violated the FCPA and other U.S. federal criminal laws by engaging in a scheme to make corrupt payments to officials of the South Africa government in connection with securing our 2012 SASSA contract and whether we violated federal securities laws in connection with statements made by us in our SEC filings regarding this contract. The investigations commenced as a result of reports made to the relevant U.S. authorities by a losing bidder to the 2012 SASSA contract. While these investigations have all been concluded with no adverse findings against us, during the course of the investigations, managements time was diverted from other matters relating to our business and we suffered harm to our business reputation. Furthermore, in fiscal 2013, the FSB suspended Smart Lifes insurance license. Our management has to spend a disproportionate amount of time explaining the circumstances surrounding, and the result of the investigations, when engaging new business partners, shareholders or regulators. Violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international anti-corruption laws and regulations, and provide regular training to our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Since less developed countries present some of the best opportunities for us to expand our business internationally, restrictions against entering into transactions with those foreign countries, as well as with certain entities and individuals in those countries, can adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Changes in current South African government regulations relating to social welfare grants could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. We derive a substantial portion of our current business from the provision of financial and other services to social grant recipients. Because social welfare eligibility and grant amounts are regulated by the South African government, any changes to or reinterpretations of the government regulations relating to social welfare may result in the non-renewal or reduction of grants for certain individuals, or a determination that currently eligible social welfare grant recipient cardholders are no longer eligible. If any of these changes were to occur, this could result in a reduction of our revenue, profits and cash flows. We do not have a South African banking license and, therefore, we provide our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere solution through an arrangement with a third-party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere business without alternate means of access to a banking license. The South African retail banking market is highly regulated. Under current law and regulations, our South African social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere business activities requires us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. 26 We are not currently so registered, but we have an agreement with Grindrod Bank that enables us to implement our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere solution in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If the agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate these services unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. We are also dependent on Grindrod Bank to defend us against attacks from the other South African banks who may regard the rapid market acceptance of our UEPS/EMV product with biometric verification as disruptive to their funds transfer or other businesses and may seek governmental or other regulatory intervention. Furthermore, we have to comply with the strict anti-money laundering and customer identification regulations of the SARB when we open new bank accounts for our customers and when they transact. Failure to effectively implement and monitor these regulations may result in significant fines or prosecution of Grindrod Bank and ourselves. In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. Smart Life was granted an Authorized Financial Service Provider, or FSP, license on June 9, 2015, and Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd and Net1 Mobile Solutions (Pty) Ltd were each granted FSP licenses on July 11, 2017. If our FSP licenses are cancelled, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa. Our payment processing businesses are subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements. Our payment processing activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under the various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We may be subject to regulations regarding privacy, data use and/or security, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulations in a number of the countries in which we operate relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about the people who use our products and services, in particular, Know Your Customer, personal financial and health information. New laws in this area, such as GDPR, have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. The General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, took effect on May 25, 2018, in the European Union and introduced direct compliance obligations for data controllers and data processors. National Data Protection Agencies, or NDPAs, are now able to impose fines for violations ranging from 2% to 4% of annual worldwide turnover, or 10 million to 20 million euro, whichever is greater. NDPAs have the power to carry out audits, request information, and obtain access to premises. Businesses must be able to demonstrate that the personal data of any data subject can be lawfully processed on one of the six specified grounds. The GDPR adopts a risk-based approach to compliance, under which businesses bear responsibility for assessing the degree of risk that their processing activities pose to data subjects. Businesses are required to perform data protection impact assessments before any processing that uses new technology and is likely to result in a high risk to data subjects. The GDPR requires businesses to maintain records of their processing activities. Clear rules around data breach notifications and the processing of personal data in such a manner that the personal data can no longer be attributed to a specific individual have been set out by the GDPR. In addition, under the GDPR, data subjects have new rights, for example, the right to request that businesses delete their personal data (the right to be forgotten); to object to their personal data being processed; and to obtain a copy of their personal data within a set time frame. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. 27 Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has experienced recent significant volatility. During the 2018 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $8.05 to a high of $13.20. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: - any adverse developments in litigation or regulatory actions in which we are involved; - fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate; - announcement of additional BEE transactions, especially one involving the issuance or potential issuance of equity securities or dilution or sale of our existing business in South Africa; - quarterly variations in our operating results, especially if our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors; - announcements of acquisitions, disposals or impairments of intangible assets; - the timing of or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of investments or major projects; - large purchases or sales of our common stock; - general conditions in the markets in which we operate; and - economic and financial conditions. The put right we have agreed to grant to the IFC Investors on the occurrence of certain triggering events may have adverse impacts on us. In May 2016, we issued an aggregate of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock to the IFC Investors. We granted the IFC Investors certain rights, including the right to require us to repurchase any shares we have sold to the IFC Investors upon the occurrence of specified triggering events, which we refer to as a put right. Events triggering the put right relate to (1) us being the subject of a governmental complaint alleging, a court judgment finding or an indictment alleging that we (a) engaged in specified corrupt, fraudulent, coercive, collusive or obstructive practices; (b) entered into transactions with targets of economic sanctions; or (c) failed to operate our business in compliance with anti-money laundering or anti-terrorism laws; or (2) we reject a bona fide offer to acquire all of our outstanding shares at a time when we have in place or implement a shareholder rights plan, or adopt a shareholder rights plan triggered by a beneficial ownership threshold of less than twenty percent. The put price per share will be the higher of the price per share paid to us by the IFC Investors and the volume-weighted average price per share prevailing for the 60 trading days preceding the triggering event, except that with respect to a put right triggered by rejection of a bona fide offer, the put price per share will be the highest price offered by the offeror. If a put triggering event occurs, it could adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, the existence of the put right could also affect whether or on what terms a third party might in the future offer to purchase our company. Our response to any such offer could also be complicated, delayed or otherwise influenced by the existence of the put right. Approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock is owned by three shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with those of our other shareholders. There is a concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock because approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock is owned by three shareholders. Based on their most recent SEC filings disclosing ownership of our shares, IFC Investors, International Value Advisers, LLC, or IVA, and Allan Gray Proprietary Limited, beneficially owned approximately 18%, 15% and 5% of our outstanding common stock, respectively. The interests of the IFC Investors, IVA and Allan Gray, may be different from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of the ownership by the IFC Investors, IVA and Allan Gray, they will be able, if they act together, to significantly influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, thus depriving shareholders of a premium for their shares, or facilitating a change of control that other shareholders may oppose. We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. 28 If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations or acquisitions as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies, to expand into new markets and to make acquisitions, all of which may be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations or to acquire other businesses, issue shares in a BEE transaction, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders. In addition, additional shares that we issue would likely be freely tradable which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, especially over companies that we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, we are required to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting also applies to companies that we acquire. As a private company, DNI was not required to comply with the requirements of Sarbanes prior to the time we acquired it. As DNI was acquired on June 30, 2018, there was not sufficient time, and therefore it was not possible for management to perform as assessment of the internal controls at DNI. Our management evaluation and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2018, excluded the operations of DNI. If we fail to successfully integrate the operations of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. The integration of DNI into our internal control over financial reporting requires significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal control related to our recognition of revenue from our SASSA contract during the three months ended June 30, 2018. As discussed in Item 3Legal ProceedingsConstitutional Court order regarding extension of contract with SASSA for 12 months, our SASSA contract was extended by, and is currently subject to the ongoing oversight of, the Constitutional Court. Specifically, they concluded that our procedures and controls did not appropriately assess the documentation specific to the provision of cash payment services during the three months ended June 30, 2018, which should have resulted in the Company concluding that there is no evidence of an arrangement at a fixed and determinable price other than that noted in the court order extension. This material weakness could have resulted in a material misstatement of our financial statements that would not have been prevented or detected. In the event that we are faced with a similar set of circumstances in the future, we intend to appoint an independent expert to assist us in determining the appropriate accounting treatment. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date, and actions we may take in the future, will be sufficient to remediate the control deficiencies that led to our material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or that they will prevent potential future material weaknesses. 29 While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the markets perception of our business and our stock price. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws, against us or certain of our directors and officers and experts. While Net1 is incorporated in the state of Florida, United States, the company is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa and substantially all of the companys assets are located outside the United States. In addition, the majority of Net1s directors and all its officers reside outside of the United States and the majority of our experts, including our independent registered public accountants, are based in South Africa. As a result, even though you could effect service of legal process upon Net1, as a Florida corporation, in the United States, you may not be able to collect any judgment obtained against Net1 in the United States, including any judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, because substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process upon the majority of our directors and officers or upon our experts within the United States or elsewhere outside South Africa and any judgment obtained against any of our foreign directors, officers and experts in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by a South African court. South Africa is not a party to any treaties regarding the enforcement of foreign commercial judgments, as opposed to foreign arbitral awards. Accordingly, a foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which may be enforced by South African courts provided that: the court which pronounced the judgment had international jurisdiction and competence to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); the judgment has not lapsed; the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy in South Africa, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that no award is enforceable unless the defendant was duly served with documents initiating proceedings, that he was given a fair opportunity to be heard and that he enjoyed the right to be legally represented in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; the judgment was not obtained by improper or fraudulent means; the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or foreign revenue law or any award of multiple or punitive damages; and the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Business Act 99 of 1978 (as amended), of the Republic of South Africa. It has been the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. South African courts have awarded compensation to shareholders who have suffered damages as a result of a diminution in the value of their shares based on various actions by the corporation and its management. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, that does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. Whether a judgment was contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable, or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by a South African court, it will be payable in South African currency. Also, under South Africas exchange control laws, the approval of SARB is required before a defendant resident in South Africa may pay money to a non-resident plaintiff in satisfaction of a foreign judgment enforced by a court in South Africa. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws may be brought before South African courts. A plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. Furthermore, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South African courts. In reaching the foregoing conclusions in respect of South Africa, we consulted with our South African legal counsel, Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease our corporate headquarters facility which consists of approximately 93,000 square feet in Johannesburg, South Africa. We also lease properties throughout South Africa, including a 12,088 square foot manufacturing facility in Lazer Park, a 50,052 square foot administration building in Kramerville, Johannesburg, 175 financial services branches and 78 depot facilities. We also lease additional office space in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban, South Africa; London, United Kingdom; Seoul, South Korea; Munich, Germany; Hong Kong and Zhuhai, China; Mumbai, India and Black River, Mauritius. These leases expire at various dates through 2022. We own land and buildings in Ahnsung, Kyung-gi, South Korea, that is used for the storage of business documents. We believe that we have adequate facilities for our current business operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Constitutional Court order regarding extension of contract with SASSA for 12 months On March 17, 2017, the Constitutional Court delivered its order regarding the continued payment of social grants upon the expiration of the contract between our subsidiary, CPS, and SASSA on March 31, 2017, or the March 2017 order. The Constitutional Court ordered that SASSA and CPS were under a constitutional obligation to ensure payment of social welfare grants from April 1, 2017 and ordered CPS and SASSA to ensure payment of grants, for a period of 12 months, on the same terms and conditions as those included in the expiring contract plus additional requirements to (i) adequately safeguard personal data obtained during the payment process and ensure that it remains private and may not be used for any purpose other than the payment of grants, and (ii) preclude anyone from inviting beneficiaries to opt-in to the sharing of confidential information for the marketing of goods and services. The Constitutional Court also ordered that CPS may request National Treasury to investigate and make a recommendation regarding the price charged by CPS in the extension contract and stated that National Treasury must file a report with the Constitutional Court stating its findings in this regard. The March 2017 order also included public accountability provisions that directly impacted CPS. These provisions are similar to those included in the Constitutional Courts April 2014 order, and require CPS to provide the Constitutional Court with an audited statement of expenses incurred, income received and net profit earned under the 12 month extension contract ending March 31, 2018. SASSA was also required to obtain an independent audit of the audited information provided by CPS. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court has instructed SASSA to send this audited information to National Treasury for its approval prior to submission to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court included additional public accountability provisions that impact the Minister of Social Development and SASSA. These provisions required the Minister and SASSA to file reports, on affidavit, with the Constitutional Court every three months, commencing on June 19, 2017, setting out how they planned to ensure the payment of social grants after the end of the 12-month contract extension period, details of the steps taken in that regard, what further steps they would take, and when they would take each future step, so as to ensure that the payment of all social grants is made when due after the expiry of the 12-month period. The Constitutional Court also directed that these reports must include the applicable time-frames for the various deliverables which formed part of the plan, whether the time-frames have been complied with, and if not, why that is the case and what will be done to remedy the situation. The Minister and SASSA were also required to immediately report to the Constitutional Court and explain the reasons for and consequences of any material changes to the circumstances included in the reports previously submitted to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court also ordered SASSA to ensure that any new payment method would (i) adequately safeguard personal data obtained during the payment process and ensure that such data remain private and may not be used for any purpose other than the payment of grants; and (ii) preclude a contracting party from inviting beneficiaries to opt-in to the sharing of confidential information for the marketing of goods and services. The Constitutional Court order also invited parties involved in the Constitutional Court proceedings to provide the name and consent of independent legal practitioners and technical experts, together with the Auditor-General of South Africa, to oversee the implementation of the payment of social welfare grants during the period to March 31, 2018, as well as oversee SASSAs conduct to appoint a new service provider from April 1, 2018, or to perform the grant distribution service in-house. The Constitutional Court appointed a panel of ten such experts on June 6, 2017. 31 Further to the March 2017 order, SASSA and certain other parties, including the independent panel of experts appointed by the Constitutional Court, have made various submissions to the Constitution Court. Argument was heard on March 6, 2018 and on March 23, 2018, the Constitutional Court issued an order reiterating that SASSA and CPS have a constitutional obligation to pay social welfare grants and that the contract between SASSA and CPS, for the payment of social grants to beneficiaries who are paid in cash (i.e. those grant recipients who receive their grants at pay points), be extended for a further six months to September 30, 2018, or March 2018 order. The Constitutional Courts order provides for the payment of these grants under the extended contracts terms and conditions. The Constitutional Court permitted CPS to request National Treasury to evaluate and recommend the price to be charged by CPS for the payment of grants in cash under the extended contract. National Treasury submitted its recommendations to the Constitutional Court on April 30, 2018, proposing fee levels that were materially lower than CPS had requested, but significantly higher than the current fee levels. We submitted a responding affidavit to the Constitutional Court on May 11, 2018, but, until the Constitutional Court issues an order, we do not have certainty around CPSs compensation for providing this service. The Constitutional Court included public accountability provisions in its March 2018 order that directly impact CPS. These provisions are similar to those included in the Constitutional Courts April 2014 and March 2017 orders and require CPS to provide SASSA with an independently audited statement of expenses incurred, income received and profit earned under the contract. SASSA is also required to obtain an independent audit of the audited information provided by CPS. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court directed SASSA to send this audited information to National Treasury for its approval prior to submission to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court also included public accountability provisions in its March 2018 order that impact the Minister of Social Development and SASSA. These provisions are similar to those included in the March 2017 order and require the Minister and SASSA to file reports with the Constitutional Court at the end of every month, commencing in April 2018 and ending in August 2018, regarding the implementation of the Constitutional Courts order. The Minister and SASSA are also required to immediately report and explain any material changes, and the consequences of such changes, to the circumstances included in the reports previously submitted to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court also ordered SASSA to ensure that the payment method determined by it must (i) adequately safeguard beneficiaries personal data obtained during the payment process and ensure that such data remains private and not used for any purpose other than the payment of grants; and (ii) preclude a contracting party from inviting beneficiaries to opt-in to share confidential information for the marketing of goods and services. The independent panel of experts, appointed by the Constitutional Court, was directed to (i) evaluate the implementation of the cash payment of social grants from the date of the order until September 2018, (ii) evaluate the steps proposed and taken by SASSA for any competitive bidding process or any other processes aimed at the appointment of a new contract or contracts for the cash payment of social grants by SASSA, (iii) evaluate the steps proposed or taken by SASSA for SASSA itself to administer and pay grants in the future, and (iv) file reports with the Constitutional Court, by the 15th of each month from May 2018 to September 2018, relating to the period from April 1, 2018 to the date of each report, describing the steps that the panel has taken to evaluate the matters referred to in (i) through (iii) above, the results of their evaluation and any recommendations. On August 31, 2018, SASSA and its Chief Executive Officer, in her official capacity, were ordered by the Constitutional Court to pay the costs related to the March 2018 Order. On February 6, 2018, CPS applied to the Constitutional Court requesting clarity on whether CPS may participate in any future SASSA tender processes. On February 23, 2018, the Constitutional Court ordered that CPS may participate in the new SASSA tender process, which commenced in December 2017. Litigation Regarding Legality of Debit Orders under Social Assistance Act Regulations On June 3, 2016, we filed for a declaratory order with the High Court of the Republic of South Africa Gauteng Division, Pretoria, or Pretoria High Court, to provide certainty to us, as well as other industry stakeholders, on the interpretation of the Social Assistance Act and recent regulations promulgated in terms thereof, or the Regulations. The Regulations sought to restrict deductions from social grants paid to beneficiaries to direct deductions only. We interpret the meaning of the word deductions to be specific to the practice of deducting amounts, historically limited to life insurance premiums from grants, before the grants are paid to social welfare beneficiaries bank accounts, and are of the opinion that the legislature did not intend to curtail the rights of beneficiaries to transact freely after the money is deposited into their bank accounts. We brought the application for a declaratory order because SASSA sought to lend a broader interpretation to the meaning of the term deductions to include any debit orders, EFT debits, purchase transactions, or fund transfers that are effected after the transfer of social grants to beneficiaries bank accounts. If SASSAs interpretation were to prevail, debit transactions could no longer be used as a method for beneficiaries to make payments for financial services such as insurance premiums, loan repayments, electricity and other purchases, money transfers or any other electronic payments. 32 We believe that SASSAs broad interpretation of the Regulations is flawed and inaccurate for a number of reasons, including but not limited to, the following: (a) It would unjustifiably infringe beneficiaries fundamental rights to contractual freedom and self-autonomy. (b) It would limit beneficiaries ability to pay for those products or services through the utilization of their bank accounts in the manner they so choose, which would (i) be a major setback to the national objective of financial inclusiveness; (ii)introduce financial and security risks for beneficiaries; and (iii) result in significant price increases for these products and services. (c) It impermissibly encroaches on the jurisdiction and regulatory powers of the SARB and the Payments Association of South Africa, which regulate the national payment system. (d) It would constitute a retrogressive regulatory measure that conflicts with the governments constitutional obligation to improve access to social security and assistance, in that it would deprive beneficiaries of the advantages of the national payment system and the convenient, low cost, reliable and ubiquitous payment system that they currently have under the CPS payment system. Several other industry participants launched similar proceedings, and the SARB also filed an affidavit in which it sets out its position. The matter was heard on October 17 and 18, 2016 and on May 9, 2017, the Pretoria High Court issued a declaratory order that the Social Assistance Act and Regulations do not restrict social grant recipients in the operation of their banks accounts. The order clarified that recipients may continue to initiate debit order instructions with any service provider, including our subsidiaries, against their bank accounts for the payment of goods and services. SASSA, its Chief Executive Officer and the Minister of Social Development were ordered to pay the costs of the application. The Pretoria High Court also refused the Black Sash Trusts, or Black Sash, application to intervene in the matter. In support of its application, the Black Sash made several allegations of illegal deductions which we denied in our answering affidavits. On June 20, 2017, the Pretoria High Court refused the Minister of Social Development, SASSA and Black Sashs applications for leave to appeal the Pretoria High Courts May 9, 2017, declaratory order. SASSA, its Chief Executive Officer and the Minister of Social Development were ordered to pay the costs of the application for the leave to appeal. On July 19, 2017, SASSA and the Black Sash served applications petitioning the South African Supreme Court of Appeal to grant them leave to appeal to either the Supreme Court or to a full bench of the Pretoria High Court. On September 29, 2017, the Supreme Court of Appeal referred the petitions to oral argument. The oral argument in respect of the petitions was heard on August 16 and 17, 2018. We believe that SASSAs and the Black Sashs claims are without merit, and we intend to defend against them vigorously. However, we cannot predict how the courts will rule on the matter. In addition, on June 15, 2016, SASSA brought criminal charges against us and Grindrod Bank for contravening the Social Assistance Act, alleging that we and Grindrod Bank failed to act in accordance with SASSAs instructions by processing debit orders against social welfare beneficiaries bank accounts after the Regulations came into effect. On June 28, 2016, the Pretoria High Court prohibited SASSA from making any representations to the South African Police Services and the National Prosecuting Authority regarding the criminal charges brought against us and Grindrod Bank pending the determination of the proceedings, including the determination of any appeals. In addition, the order prevented SASSA from issuing further demands to us and Grindrod Bank to stop the processing of debit transactions against SASSA bank accounts pending the determination of the dispute, including the determination of any appeals. On August 8, 2016, we were informed that the NPA had reached a no prosecution decision on the criminal charges filed by SASSA. On May 17, 2017, the NPA reaffirmed its no prosecution decision reached in August 2016 on the criminal charges brought by SASSA against us and Grindrod Bank. In addition, the NPA notified us that no further action would be taken and that we could consider the case closed. Challenge to Payment by SASSA of Additional Implementation Costs As previously disclosed, in June 2014, we received approximately ZAR 277.0 million, excluding VAT, from SASSA, related to the recovery of additional implementation costs we incurred during the beneficiary re-registration process in fiscal 2012 and 2013. After the award of the tender, SASSA requested that CPS biometrically register all social grant beneficiaries (including child grant beneficiaries) and collect additional information for each child grant recipient. CPS agreed to SASSAs request and, as a result, performed approximately 11.0 million additional registrations beyond those that CPS tendered for the quoted service fee. Accordingly, we sought reimbursement from SASSA, supported by a factual findings certificate from an independent auditing firm. SASSA agreed to pay us the ZAR 277.0 million as full settlement of the additional costs we incurred. 33 In March 2015, Corruption Watch, a South African non-profit civil society organization, commenced legal proceedings in the High Court of South Africa seeking an order by the Pretoria High Court to review and set aside the decision of SASSAs Chief Executive Officer to approve payment to us of ZAR 317.0 million (approximately ZAR 277 million, excluding VAT) and directing us to repay the aforesaid amount, plus interest. Corruption Watch claimed that there was no lawful basis to make the payment to us, and that the decision was unreasonable and irrational and did not comply with South African legislation. CPS was named as a respondent in this legal proceeding. On February 22, 2018, the matter was heard by the Gauteng Division, Pretoria of the High Court of South Africa, or High Court. On March 23, 2018, the High Court ordered that the June 15, 2012 variation agreement between SASSA and CPS be reviewed and set aside. CPS was ordered to refund ZAR 317.0 million to SASSA, plus interest from June 2014 to date of payment. On April 4, 2018, we filed an application seeking leave to appeal the whole order and judgment of the High Court with the High Court because we believe that the High Court erred in its application of the law and/or in fact in its findings. On April 25, 2018, the High Court refused the application seeking leave to appeal. On May 23, 2018, CPS delivered its petition seeking leave to appeal the whole order and judgment of the High Court with the Supreme Court of Appeal. On June 21, 2018, Corruption Watch delivered a responding affidavit and, on July 4, 2018, CPS delivered its replying affidavit. We await directions from the Supreme Court of Appeal. However, we cannot predict whether leave to appeal will be granted or if granted, how the Supreme Court of Appeal would rule on the matter. NCR application for the cancelation of Moneylines registration as a credit provider In September 2014, the NCR applied to the South African National Consumer Tribunal, or Tribunal, to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline, for breach of the NCA based on an investigation concluded by it. Pursuant to the investigation, the NCA also issued two Compliance Notices one to CPS and one to Moneyline. The Compliance Notice issued to Moneyline accused it of having access into the Grindrod Bank Accounts of social grant beneficiaries which enables them (sic) to see the spending patterns of beneficiaries and deposit loan amounts into such accounts. The Compliance Notice issued to CPS accused it of providing information about social grant beneficiaries to Moneyline in breach of section 68(1) of the NCA. The Compliance Notices demanded that both CPS and Moneyline take the appropriate steps to address the alleged non-compliance with the NCA and to report in writing to the NCR, along with an independent audit report, that they were no longer non-compliant as alleged by the Compliance Notices. We objected to the Compliance Notices and the Tribunal set both Compliance Notices aside. Regarding the NCRs application to cancel the registration of Moneyline, we raised a number of procedural points in defense, which, if we are successful, will be dispositive of the application. Argument on these points was heard on November 27, 2015, before three tribunal members. Two ruled against us and one upheld our points. We are appealing the majority ruling to the High Court. This matter was initially scheduled to be heard on December 6, 2017, however, the matter was subsequently removed from the roll. A new hearing date has not been allocated and the matter will be heard on December 4, 2018 by a full bench of the Pretoria High Court. If we are successful, it will dispose of the application. If we do not prevail, then the NCRs application will be set down before the Consumer Tribunal for argument on the main issues raised by the NCR, as dealt with above. We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. There are no other material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, to which we are a party or of which any of our property is the subject. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 34 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market information Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, in the United States under the symbol UEPS and on the JSE in South Africa under the symbol NT1. The Nasdaq is our principal market for the trading of our common stock. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq. Period High Low Quarter ended September 30, 2016 $ 11.30 $ 8.37 Quarter ended December 31, 2016 $ 12.26 $ 8.57 Quarter ended March 31, 2017 $ 13.53 $ 11.33 Quarter ended June 30, 2017 $ 12.23 $ 9.19 Quarter ended September 30, 2017 $ 10.35 $ 9.06 Quarter ended December 31, 2017 $ 13.20 $ 8.87 Quarter ended March 31, 2018 $ 13.15 $ 9.12 Quarter ended June 30, 2018 $ 10.71 $ 8.05 Our transfer agent in the United States is Computershare Shareowner Services LLC, 480 Washington Blvd, Jersey City, New Jersey, 07310. According to the records of our transfer agent, as of August 16, 2018, there were 15 shareholders of record of our common stock. A substantially greater number of holders of our common stock are street name or beneficial holders, whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers, and other financial institutions. Our transfer agent in South Africa is Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd, 13th Floor, Rennie House, 19 Ameshoff Street, Braamfontein, 2001, South Africa. Dividends We have not paid any dividends on our shares of common stock during our last two fiscal years and presently intend to retain future earnings to repay debt and finance the expansion of the business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, debt commitments, expansion plans, financial condition and other relevant factors. Issuer purchases of equity securities On February 3, 2016, our board of directors approved the replenishment of our existing share repurchase authorization to repurchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of common stock and, as of June 30, 2018, we had utilized approximately $47.5 million of this authorization and approximately $52.5 million remains available. The authorization has no expiration date. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during fiscal 2018. 35 Share performance graph The chart below compares the five-year cumulative return, assuming the reinvestment of dividends, where applicable, on our common stock with that of the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Industrial Index. This graph assumes $100 was invested on June 30, 2013, in each of our common stock, the companies in the S&P 500 Index, and the companies in the NASDAQ Industrial Index. 36 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected historical consolidated financial data should be read together with Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following selected historical financial data as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, and for the three years ended June 30, 2018, have been derived from our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected historical consolidated financial data presented below as of June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014 and for the years ended June 30, 2015 and 2014, have been derived from our consolidated financial statements, which are not included herein. The selected historical financial data as of each date and for each period presented have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in any future period. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (in thousands, except per share data) Year Ended June 30 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 (1) Revenue $ 612,889 $ 610,066 $ 590,749 $ 625,979 $ 581,656 Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 304,536 292,383 290,101 297,856 260,232 Selling, general and administrative (2) 193,003 179,262 145,886 158,919 168,072 Equity instruments granted pursuant to BEE transactions (3) - - - - 11,268 Depreciation and amortization 35,484 41,378 40,394 40,685 40,286 Impairment loss 20,917 - - - - Operating income 58,949 97,043 114,368 128,519 101,798 Interest income 17,885 20,897 15,292 16,355 14,817 Interest expense 8,941 3,484 3,423 4,456 7,473 Income before income taxes 67,893 114,456 126,237 140,418 109,142 Income tax expense 41,353 42,472 42,080 44,136 39,379 Net income attributable to Net1 39,150 72,954 82,454 94,735 70,111 Income from continuing operations per share: Basic $ 0.69 $ 1.34 $ 1.72 $ 2.03 $ 1.51 Diluted $ 0.69 $ 1.33 $ 1.71 $ 2.02 $ 1.50 (1) Fiscal 2014 includes recovery of $26.6 million of implementation costs from SASSA. (2) Includes a separation payment of $8.0 million paid to our former chief executive officer in 2017. (3) Includes a non-cash charge of approximately $11.3 million in 2014 related to common stock issued in a BEE transaction. Additional Operating Data: (in thousands, except percentages) Year ended June 30, 2018 (1) 2017 (1) 2016 (1) 2015 (1) 2014 (1) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 132,605 $ 97,161 $ 116,552 $ 135,258 $ 37,145 Cash flows (used in) provided by investing activities $ (180,448 ) $ 114,071 $ 5,756 $ 80,783 $ 9,237 Cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities $ (473,479 ) $ 40,469 $ 13,645 $ 16,784 $ (25,781 ) Operating income margin (2) 9.6% 15.9% 19.4% 20.5% 17.5% (1) Cash flows (used in) provided by investing activities include movements in settlement assets and cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities include movement in settlement liabilities. (2) Fiscal 2018 operating income margin was 15% before the impairment loss (Refer to Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements for a full description of the impairment loss). Fiscal 2017 operating income margin was 18% before the separation payment of $8.0 million paid to our former chief executive officer. 37 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: (in thousands) As of June 30, 2018 2017 (R) 2016 (R) 2015 2014 Cash and cash equivalents $ 90,054 $ 258,457 $ 223,644 $ 117,583 $ 58,672 Total current assets before settlement assets 277,794 465,735 386,998 301,874 259,591 Goodwill 283,240 188,833 179,478 166,437 186,576 Intangible assets 131,132 38,764 48,556 47,124 68,514 Total assets 1,219,290 1,450,756 1,263,500 1,316,956 1,363,375 Total current liabilities before settlement obligations 133,486 80,859 65,486 82,198 81,823 Total long-term debt 5,469 7,501 43,134 50,762 62,388 Total equity (R) $ 738,430 $ 600,335 $ 603,220 $ 478,785 $ 441,748 (R) During fiscal 2018, we reclassified redeemable common stock out of total equity because redeemable common stock is required to be presented outside of permanent equity. We have restated these amounts in our consolidated balance sheet as at June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The reclassification resulted in a decrease in total equity by approximately $107.7 million and an increase in redeemable common stock, presented outside of permanent equity, of approximately $107.7 million. This reclassification had no impact on the Companys previously reported consolidated income, comprehensive income or cash flows. 38 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6Selected Financial Data and Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. See Item 1A Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. Overview We are a leading provider of payment solutions, transaction processing services and financial technology across multiple industries and in a number of emerging and developed economies. We have developed and market a comprehensive transaction processing solution that encompasses our smart card-based alternative payment system for the unbanked and under-banked populations of developing economies and for mobile transaction channels. Our market-leading system can enable the billions of people globally who generally have limited or no access to a bank account to enter affordably into electronic transactions with each other, government agencies, employers, merchants and other financial service providers. Our UEPS, and UEPS/EMV derivative discussed below, uses biometrically secure smart cards that operate in real-time but either offline or online, unlike traditional payment systems offered by major banking institutions that require immediate access through a communications network to a centralized computer. This offline capability means that users of our system can conduct transactions at any time with other card holders in even the most remote areas so long as a smart card reader, which is often portable and battery powered, is available. Our off-line systems also offer the highest level of availability and affordability by removing any components that are costly and are prone to outages. Our latest version of the UEPS technology has been certified by EMV, which facilitates our proprietary UEPS system to interoperate with the global EMV standard and allows card holders to transact at any EMV-enabled point of sale terminal or ATM. The UEPS/EMV technology has been deployed on an extensive scale in South Africa through the issuance of MasterCard-branded UEPS/EMV cards to our social welfare grant customers. In addition to effecting purchases, cash-backs and any form of payment, our system can be used for banking, healthcare management, international money transfers, voting and identification. We also provide secure financial technology solutions and services, by offering transaction processing and financial products to various industries. We have extensive expertise in secure online transaction processing, cryptography, mobile telephony, integrated circuit card (chip/smart card) technologies, and the design and provision of financial and value-added services to our cardholder base. Our technology is widely used in South Africa today, where we provide bank accounts to approximately 3.0 million EPE customers and are in the last month of our contract to distribute welfare payments, using our UEPS/EMV technology, process debit and credit card payment transactions on behalf of a wide range of retailers through our EasyPay system, process value-added services such as bill payments and prepaid airtime and electricity for the major bill issuers and local councils in South Africa, and provide mobile telephone top-up transactions for all of the South African mobile carriers. We are the largest provider of third-party and associated payroll payments in South Africa through our FIHRST service. We provide financial inclusion services such as microloans, insurance, mobile transacting and prepaid utilities to our cardholder base. In addition, through KSNET, we are one of the top three value-added network, or VAN, processors in South Korea, and we offer card processing, payment gateway and banking value-added services in that country. We also offer end-to-end payment services through IPG in Europe, the U.K., Asia and the United States. We are also collaborating with Bank Frick on exploiting opportunities in the blockchain and cryptocurrency environments. Our Applied Technologies business unit has an array of web and mobile applications and payment technologies, such as MVC, Chip and GSM licensing and VTU, and has deployed solutions in many countries, including South Africa, Namibia, Nigeria, Malawi, Cameroon, the Philippines, India and Colombia. Sources of Revenue We generate our revenues by charging transaction fees to government agencies, merchants, financial service providers, utility providers, bill issuers, employers; and cardholders; by providing loans and insurance products and by selling hardware, licensing software and providing related technology services. We have structured our business and our business development efforts around four related but separate approaches to deploying our technology. In our most basic approach, we act as a supplier, selling our equipment, software, and related technology to a customer. The revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment. 39 We have found that we have greater revenue and profit opportunities, however, by acting as a service provider instead of a supplier. In this approach we own and operate the UEPS ourselves, charging one-time and on-going fees for the use of the system either on a fixed or ad valorem basis. This is the case in South Africa, where we distribute welfare grants on behalf of the South African government on a fixed fee basis, provide bank accounts on a fixed fee basis, but charge a fee on an ad valorem basis for goods and services purchased using our smart card. The revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our South African transaction processing and Financial inclusion and applied technologies segments. Because our smart cards are designed to enable the delivery of more advanced services and products, we are also willing to supply those services and products directly where the business case is compelling. For instance, we provide short-term loans to our smart card holders. This is an example of the third approach that we have taken. Here we can act as the principal in operating a business that can be better delivered through our UEPS. The revenue and costs are reflected in our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment. In South Africa, we also generate fees from debit and credit card transaction processing, the provision of value-added services such as bill payments, mobile top-up and prepaid utility sales, and from providing a payroll transaction management service. The revenue and costs associated with these services are reflected in our South African transaction processing and Financial inclusion and applied technologies segments. Through KSNET, we earn most of our revenue from payment processing services we provide to approximately 240,000 merchants and to card issuers in South Korea through our value-added-network. Through IPG we generate fee revenue through the provision of payment service provider and card issuing and acquiring services in primarily Germany, China and the U.S. We also generate fees from our customers who utilize our VCPay technology to generate a unique, one-time use prepaid virtual card number to securely purchase goods and services or perform bill payments in any card-not-present environment. The revenue and costs at of all of these businesses are reflected in our International transaction processing segment. Finally, we have investments, business partnerships or joint ventures to introduce our financial technology solutions to markets such as Bank Frick in Europe, Finbond in South Africa and North America, OneFi in Nigeria and MobiKwik in India. In these situations, we take an equity position in the business while also acting as a supplier of technology. In evaluating these types of opportunities, we seek to maintain a highly disciplined approach, carefully selecting partners, participating closely in the development of the business plan and remaining actively engaged in the management of the new business. In most instances, the joint venture or partnership has a license to use our proprietary technologies in the specific territory, including the back-end system. We believe that this flexible approach enables us to drive adoption of our solution while capturing the value created by the implementation of our technology. Developments during Fiscal 2018 CPS and SASSA Contract Termination On March 23, 2018, the Constitutional Court ordered a six-month extension of our current contract with SASSA, for the payment of grants in cash at pay points only, on the same terms and conditions as the contract that was due to expire on March 31, 2018. Accordingly, we have continued to pay grant recipients at pay points. While the Court order was silent regarding the payment of the other 9.1 million grant recipients who access their grants utilizing PIN or by biometric verification at POS and ATMs, we have continued to support the bank accounts that underpin these grant payments. As SASSA is no longer paying us a service fee for the management of these accounts with effect from April 1, 2018, grant recipients now bear the cost for the fees associated with these accounts. SASSA has indicated that grant recipients will be encouraged to open a commercial bank account of their choice in the future, including the special account offered by SAPO for grant recipients. SASSA reported in its September 2018 filing with the Constitutional Court the SASSA CEO reported that 5,475,752 new SASSA/SAPO payment cards have been issued. The Constitutional Court further ordered that we may approach the National Treasury to investigate and make a recommendation regarding the price to be paid for our contracted services during the six-month period. We approached the National Treasury for a price review shortly after receipt of the Constitutional Court order and on April 30, 2018, the National Treasury filed their recommendation with the Constitutional Court proposing fee levels that were materially lower than we had requested, but significantly higher than the current fee levels. As we believe that National Treasurys recommendation does not take SASSAs stated plans into account, and does not recognize the need for us to maintain our infrastructure regardless of the number of beneficiaries paid, we asked the Constitutional Court for permission to refer the matter back to National Treasury. 40 We received permission from the Constitutional Court and re-engaged with National Treasury, who indicated that the original recommendation to the Constitutional Court will not be amended. We have subsequently filed an urgent application with the Constitutional Court, requesting that the National Treasury recommendation be made an order of the court to enable SASSA to pay us, with a further request to engage with National Treasury to determine a fair price for the last three months of our contract period where there has been a significant decline in the number of beneficiaries we have paid, while we have maintained our full payment infrastructure. We have not received any response from the Constitutional Court regarding this application. For additional information refer to Item 1A.Risk FactorsThe pricing recommended by National Treasury to the Constitutional Court for our services provided at pay points for the period from April 1, 2018 through September 30, 2018, has not yet been approved by the Constitutional Court. If the amount payable to us is not commercially reasonable, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be adversely affected. On April 25, 2018, we, and other bidders, received a notice from SASSA informing us of the suspension of the tender issued in December 2017 for the appointment of a service provider to distribute grants in cash at pay points when our contract expires on September 30, 2018. In an affidavit filed with the Constitutional Court, the recently appointed Minister of Social Development, Ms. Susan Shabangu, indicated that she had ordered the suspension of the tender due to objections received regarding the completeness of the tender document from a prospective bidder, as well as the fact that the Bid Evaluation Committee did not have the required skills to evaluate a tender of this nature. Minister Shabangu also indicated to members of the Portfolio Committee for Social Development in the South African Parliament that there will be no request for a further extension of our contract when it expires on September 30, 2018. SASSA has subsequently informed the Constitutional Court that it has amended the contract with the SAPO to include the servicing of pay points when our contract expires. We are relieved that we finally have visibility regarding the end of our contract and we look forward to the successful completion of our contract on September 30, 2018. We are extremely proud of our achievements of uninterrupted grant delivery to 11.0 million social grant recipients since the inception of our contract in April 2012, and the saving of more than ZAR 2.0 billion per annum that our biometric payment technology realized for government due to the elimination of fraudulent grants. We intend to focus our resources and technology on the provision of financial inclusion services to our target market after our contract expires, without the contractual constraints and challenges we have experienced during the past six years. EPE, Moneyline and Smart Life In June 2015, we began the rollout of EPE, our business-to-consumer offering in South Africa. As of July 31, 2018, we had more than 3.0 million EPE accounts, compared to 2.0 million as of July 31, 2017. EPE is a fully transactional, low cost account created to serve the needs of South Africas unbanked and under-banked population, many of whom are social grant recipients. The EPE account offers customers a comprehensive suite of financial services and various financial inclusion services, such as prepaid products, in an economical, convenient and secure solution. EPE provides account holders with a biometrically-enabled UEPS/EMV debit MasterCard, mobile and internet banking services, ATM and POS services, as well as loans, insurance and other financial products and value-added services. In order for us to address the sizeable opportunity for EPE and related financial inclusion services in South Africa, in fiscal 2016, we began to expand our brick-and-mortar financial services branch infrastructure, which supplements our nationwide distribution, with a biometrically-enabled UEPS/EMV ATM network, and hired a dedicated sales force. We are currently expanding our physical branch and ATM infrastructure and our efforts will be supplemented by employing a roaming sales force equipped with a biometrically-enabled UEPS/EMV card-issuing work station. In January 2018, we deployed an additional 500 portable card-issuing working stations and employed 625 temporary staff to achieve this objective. At July 31, 2018, we had 169 branches (April 30, 2018: 152), 1,175 ATMs (April 30, 2018: 1,100), and 2,977 (April 30, 2018: 2,371) dedicated employees, including the temporary staff. Our efforts have resulted in an increased rate in the number of EPE accounts opened, the amount of loans disbursed and the number of insurance policies sold. We have opened approximately 815,000 EPE accounts during the last seven months since January 1, 2018, and we will have additional capacity to further increase our activities when our staff members and infrastructure currently dedicated to the SASSA contract become available for this initiative when our contract with SASSA ends. We have, however, experienced significant churn of our EPE accounts due to the unilateral decision by SASSA to open SAPO accounts for some of our EPE cardholders and to deposit their grants into these accounts, despite the legal and valid request by these cardholders to be paid via their EPE accounts. We have laid complaints with the relevant regulators in an effort to remedy this unfortunate situation but we have not received any response to date. For additional information refer to Item 1A.Risk FactorsWe face competition from the incumbent retail banks in South Africa and SAPO in the unbanked market segment, which could limit growth in our transaction-based activities segment. 41 Our loan book under Moneyline has continued to grow despite our tightening of lending criteria given the current changes in the grant recipient environment. During the 13 months since July 1, 2017, we sold approximately 172,000 new policies related to our simple, low-cost life insurance products, in addition to the free basic life insurance policy provided with every EPE account opened. On May 2, 2018, we introduced low-cost mobile telephony and data packages, designed in collaboration with Cell C and DNI, as part of our lifestyle product offering and we intend to deploy further relevant products in the near future. While the initial take up has been disappointing, we believe Cell Cs recently concluded infrastructure sharing deal in South Africa with MTN will significantly lift the market penetration of these products. We believe that we are a market leader, both in terms of cost and scale, in the provision of bank accounts, credit and insurance products in the market segments that we serve. The graph below presents the growth of the number of EPE cards and Smart Life policies: Cell C and DNI In August 2017, we purchased 15% of Cell C, one of the three major licensed mobile operators in South Africa with over 15 million active subscribers at the time of investment. In July 2017, we purchased a 45% interest in DNI, and in March 2018, we agreed to subscribe for additional shares in DNI to ultimately increase our interest to 55% with effect from June 30, 2018. DNI is the leading distributor of mobile subscriber starter packs for Cell C, while also distributing prepaid airtime through its extensive network of field operatives and agents. The investments in Cell C and DNI are consistent with our approach of leveraging our significant and established infrastructure, and pursuing strategic acquisition opportunities or partnerships to gain access to new markets and complementary products. We believe that customers want a truly bespoke, affordable and comprehensive mobile-based digital product. We believe that the Cell C and DNI investments enable us to address the needs of the broader South African population through a stake in a value chain that includes the network, payment, product, distribution and hardware. Our relationship with Cell C and DNI has other complementary benefits. For example, we recently sold four million SIM cards to Cell C during fiscal 2018 and received orders for an additional 15 million SIMs. During the first week of May 2018, we launched new low-cost products for our unbanked and under-banked customer base that were developed in collaboration with DNI and Cell C. Our investment in DNI complements our existing distribution footprint and provides us with access to an additional 2,500 employees who are dedicated to the marketing of our products, mainly in urban and semi-urban areas. For additional financial information regarding Cell C and DNI, please refer to Notes 3, 7 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements. 42 Bank Frick, Finbond and OneFi In October 2017, we acquired a 30% interest in Bank Frick, a fully licensed bank based in Balzers, Liechtenstein, from the Kuno Frick Family Foundation for approximately CHF 39.8 million ($40.9 million). In January 2018, we purchased an additional 5% in Bank Frick from the Frick Foundation for CHF 10.4 million ($11.1 million), in cash, and the Frick Foundation agreed to contribute approximately CHF 3.8 million ($4.1 million) to Bank Frick to facilitate the development of Bank Fricks Fintech and blockchain businesses. It is the first bank in the CHF area to have issued a certificate based on cryptocurrencies, launched custodial services for professional cryptocurrency investors, and has supported over a dozen initial coin offerings, or ICOs. Bank Frick has stated that it expects to increase its head count by 50% in 2018 in order to support the expansion of its blockchain offerings as well as related IT and operational support. We are approaching the final stages of certification for Finbond to become an issuer of biometrically-enabled UEPS/EMV cards and expect to commence with related activities during the first half of fiscal 2019. Finbond operates an extensive distribution network of approximately 430 branches across South Africa that will be utilized as issuing and service points for the biometrically-enabled UEPS/EMV cards. We are also deploying biometrically-enabled ATMs across the Finbond branch network. As part of a rights offering conducted by Finbond in April 2018, we subscribed for 55,585,514 additional Finbond shares and now own an aggregate of 261,069,481 Finbond shares, representing approximately 28.5% of Finbonds issued and outstanding ordinary shares immediately after the rights offering. For additional financial information regarding Bank Frick and Finbond, please refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements. During fiscal 2018 we also invested a further $1.0 million in convertible notes issued by OneFi, an equity method investment in which we currently own 25%. OneFi is the first neo bank in Sub-Saharan Africa offering loans, fixed savings and payments services to its customers via its proprietary 100%-mobile app platform, Paylater. In 2018, alone OneFi processed over 1 million loans using its machine learning algorithms that preclude the need for any human interaction. OneFi is expanding its product line to include credit cards, insurance and personal finance management in keeping with its mission to provide financial services to the next billion and will expand to two other countries in West Africa by the end of the year. We are excited by and supportive of the expanded OneFi business model. Similar to the other major neo bank platforms such as Revolut, N26 and Nubank, OneFis ability to impact and revolutionize the financial services sectors in the markets in which it operates should not be underestimated. International Payments Group During fiscal 2018, we completed the re-organization of IPG by consolidating all our e-money licenses and international card issuing, acquiring and processing activities (excluding South Korea and India) under a single management structure. IPG completed certain key product developments during the year, including its unique multicurrency-issuing platform and new card management system, which are currently undergoing certification. In addition, IPG is working in close collaboration with Bank Frick and other specialist departments in the Net1 group to develop bespoke blockchain-based solutions, including a highly secure but easily accessible crypto-asset storage solution for crypto-asset investors and exchanges. India We launched our Virtual Card project with MobiKwik in April 2018. Initially, we had to control the number of users added daily due to limitations resulting from a merger by our issuing bank partner. We have seen very positive trends in the take up and usage among the registered user base, which currently stands at 65,000 users. Approximately 70% of the spend on virtual card is at locations where the MobiKwik wallet is not accepted, thereby adding meaningful value to its acceptance network. MobiKwik has rapidly transformed itself from being a pure digital wallet player to a digital financial services provider, which more closely aligns to our strategy. Their lending business, launched about six months ago, has seen rapid adoption and by number of loans issued daily, MobiKwik has already become one of the largest digital lenders in India. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty, the determination of estimates requires managements judgment based on a variety of assumptions and other determinants such as historical experience, current and expected market conditions and certain scientific evaluation techniques. Management believes that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and the impact of these policies on the understanding of the results of our operations and financial condition. 43 Business Combinations and the Recoverability of Goodwill A component of our growth strategy has been to acquire and integrate businesses that complement our existing operations. The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair value at the date of purchase. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, we use various recognized valuation methods, including present value modeling. Further, we make assumptions using certain valuation techniques, including discount rates and timing of future cash flows. We review the carrying value of goodwill annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. In performing this review, we are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill that is implied from a valuation of the reporting unit to which the goodwill has been allocated after deducting the fair values of all the identifiable assets and liabilities that form part of the reporting unit. The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In determining the fair value of reporting units, we consider the earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, and the EBITDA multiples applicable to peer and industry comparables of the reporting units. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. In addition, we make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. The results of our impairment tests during fiscal 2018 indicated that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and therefore our reporting units were not at risk of potential impairment, with the exception of the $19.9 million of goodwill impaired during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and goodwill of $1.1 million allocated to a business that ceased trading during the year. Intangible Assets Acquired Through Acquisitions The fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired through acquisitions were determined by management using the purchase method of accounting. We completed acquisitions during fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 where we identified and recognized intangible assets. We have used the relief from royalty method, the multi-period excess earnings method, the income approach and the cost approach to value acquisition-related intangible assets. In so doing, we made assumptions regarding expected future revenues and expenses to develop the underlying forecasts, applied contributory asset charges, discount rates, exchange rates, cash tax charges and useful lives. The valuations were based on information available at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by us. No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected. For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows. To the extent actual cash flows vary, revisions to the useful life or impairment of intangible assets may be necessary. Valuation and impairment of marketable securities Our investments in available-for-sale equity securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of available-for-sale equity securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale equity securities impact our reported net income only when such securities are sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of equity securities will be calculated with reference to its original cost. We regularly review the carrying value of our available-for-sale equity securities to determine whether it is other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require us to record an impairment charge in the period in which such determination is made. In making this determination, we consider, among other things, the extent and the duration of the decline; the reasons for the decline in value (i.e. credit event, currency or interest-rate related); and the financial condition of and near term-prospects of the issuer of the security. Our assessment of whether an equity security is other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in assumptions related to any particular security, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Deferred Taxation We estimate our tax liability through the calculations done for the determination of our current tax liability, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which are disclosed on our balance sheet. 44 Management then has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the foreseeable future. A valuation allowance is created if it is determined that a deferred tax asset will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Any change to the valuation allowance would be charged or credited to income in the period such determination is made. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and practicable tax planning strategies are considered. During fiscal 2018, we recorded a net decrease of $22.9 million to our valuation allowance and during fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively, we recorded a net increase of $0.1 million and $16.3 million to our valuation allowance. As of June 30, 2018 and 2017, the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets was $16.1 million and $39.0 million, respectively. Stock-based Compensation Management is required to make estimates and assumptions related to our valuation and recording of stock-based compensation charges under current accounting standards. These standards require all share-based compensation to employees to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their respective grant date fair values over the requisite service periods and also requires an estimation of forfeitures when calculating compensation expense. We utilize the Cox Ross Rubinstein binomial model to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. We have also utilized a bespoke adjusted Monte Carlo simulation discounted cash flow model to measure the fair value of restricted stock with market conditions granted to employees and directors. The stock-based compensation cost related to these valuations has been recognized on a straight line basis. These valuation models require estimates of a number of key valuation inputs including expected volatility, expected dividend yield, expected term and risk-free interest rate. Our management has estimated forfeitures based on historic employee behavior under similar compensation plans. The fair value of stock options is affected by the assumptions selected. Net stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations was $2.6 million, $2.0 million and $3.6 million for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable related to our Financial inclusion and applied technologies and International transaction-based activities segments with respect to sales or rental of hardware, support and maintenance services provided; or sale of licenses to customers; or the provision of transaction processing services to our customers; or our working capital financing and supply chain solutions provided. Our policy is to regularly review the aging of outstanding amounts due from customers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of the amounts outstanding. Management considers factors including period outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers, past payment history and the results of discussions by our credit department with the customer. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. Additional provisions may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these receivables, including on-going evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. Microlending We maintain an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable related to our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment with respect to microlending loans provided to our customers. Our policy is to regularly review the ageing of outstanding amounts due from borrowers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of finance loans receivable. We write off microlending loans and related service fees if a borrower is in arrears with repayments for more than three months or dies. Management considers factors including the period of the microlending loan outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers and the past payment history and trends of its established microlending book. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. Additional allowances may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these finance loan receivables, including on-going evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. 45 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements adopted Refer to Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2018 Refer to Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2018, including the expected dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. New Fiscal 2018 U.S. Tax Legislation On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, was enacted into law, significantly modifying U.S. federal tax laws. The TCJA reduces the federal statutory tax rate for corporations from 35% to 21% effective from January 1, 2018, eliminates alternative minimum tax for corporations, limits net operating loss carryforwards (and eliminates carrybacks), repeals indirect foreign tax credits carry-forward rules, limits the deductibility of interest expense and transitions the system of U.S. international taxation of corporations from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. The transition to a territorial tax system is not expected to have a significant impact on our future consolidated effective tax rate as we generate the majority of our taxable income in tax jurisdictions with tax rates that are higher than the new federal statutory tax rate of 21% (mainly South Africa, where our income is taxed at 28%, and Korea, where our income is taxed at 22%). Refer to Note 19 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the impact of TCJA on us. Currency Exchange Rate Information Actual exchange rates The actual exchange rates for and at the end of the periods presented were as follows: Table 1 Year ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 ZAR : $ average exchange rate 12.8557 13.6147 14.5062 Highest ZAR : $ rate during period 14.4645 14.8114 16.8231 Lowest ZAR : $ rate during period 11.5526 12.4379 12.1965 Rate at end of period 13.7255 13.0535 14.7838 KRW : $ average exchange rate 1,098 1,141 1,173 Highest KRW : $ rate during period 1,156 1,210 1,245 Lowest KRW : $ rate during period 1,056 1,092 1,122 Rate at end of period 1,114 1,144 1,153 46 47 Translation Exchange Rates We are required to translate our results of operations from ZAR to U.S. dollars on a monthly basis. Thus, the average rates used to translate this data for the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016, vary slightly from the averages shown in the table above. The translation rates we use in presenting our results of operations are the rates shown in the following table: Year ended Table 2 June 30, 2018 2017 2016 Income and expense items: $1 = ZAR 12.6951 13.6182 14.3842 Income and expense items: $1 = KRW 1,095 1,146 1,172 Balance sheet items: $1 = ZAR 13.7255 13.0535 14.7838 Balance sheet items: $1 = KRW 1,114 1,144 1,153 Results of Operations The discussion of our consolidated overall results of operations is based on amounts as reflected in our audited consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We analyze our results of operations both in U.S. dollars, as presented in the consolidated financial statements, and supplementally in ZAR, because ZAR is the functional currency of the entities which contribute the majority of our profits and is the currency in which the majority of our transactions are initially incurred and measured. Due to the significant impact of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and ZAR on our reported results and because we use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency, we believe that the supplemental presentation of our results of operations in ZAR is useful to investors to understand the changes in the underlying trends of our business. Our operating segment revenue presented in Results of operations by operating segment represents total revenue per operating segment before intercompany eliminations. A reconciliation between total operating segment revenue and revenue presented in our consolidated financial statements is included in Note 22 to those statements. DNI was acquired on June 30, 2018, and has been accounted for using the equity method up until that date. Therefore DNI is excluded from the revenue and operating income analysis below. Fiscal 2017 includes Masterpayment Financial Services Limited, or Malta FS, from November 1, 2016 and Pros Software from October 1, 2016. Fiscal 2016 includes the results of Transact24 from January 1, 2016 and Masterpayment from April 1, 2016. Refer also to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 The following factors had an influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2018 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Growth in non-CPS South African transaction processing businesses: Higher volumes, transaction and fee income due to the increased utilization by our customers of both the National Payment System and our own distribution networks (including ATMs) during fiscal 2018, resulted in improved contribution to our processing revenue; Decline of CPS revenue and operating income due to the expiration of our SASSA contract: CPS revenue and operating income declined significantly due to 82% fewer grant recipients paid by CPS during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, being only those recipients paid at cash pay points as per the Constitutional Court order of March 23, 2018. We have not recognized the additional revenue per recipient recommended by South Africas National Treasury as the amounts have not yet been confirmed by the Constitutional Court. As a result, CPS incurred a significant operating loss during fiscal 2018; Increased contributions from EasyPay Everywhere: EPE revenue and operating income growth was driven primarily by expansion of our customer base and increased utilization of our ATM infrastructure; Growth in financial inclusion businesses: Volume growth in our lending and insurance activities during fiscal 2018 coupled with operating efficiencies, resulted in an improved contribution to our financial inclusion revenue and operating income; Higher equity-accounted earnings and re-measurement loss: Our investments in Finbond, Bank Frick and DNI positively impacted our reported results by approximately $14.6 million, before amortization of intangible assets, net of deferred taxes. The acquisition of DNI also resulted in a non-cash $4.6 million loss on re-measurement of the previously held equity interest following the consolidation of its business into our financial statements on June 30, 2018; Favorable impact from the weakening of the U.S. dollar against South African Rand: The U.S. dollar depreciated by 7% against the ZAR and 4% against the KRW during fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017, which positively impacted our reported results; 48 Regulatory changes in South Korea pertaining to fees on card transactions: The regulatory reduction in fees that may be charged on card transactions that came into effect October 2017 continued to adversely impact our revenues and operating income in South Korea as all parties in the payment process adapt to the new laws and renegotiate their respective positions in the marketplace; Higher revenue from Masterpayment offset by severance payments and allowance for credit losses: Masterpayment contributed higher revenues as a result of an increase in processing activities, particularly related to its cryptocurrency processing launched in December 2017. However, we incurred severance costs related to the separation of two senior Masterpayment managers and created an allowance for credit losses related to doubtful working capital finance receivables of $7.8 million; Non-cash impairment loss related primarily to Masterpayment intangible assets: We recorded an impairment loss of $20.9 million primarily related to Masterpayment and Masterpayment Financial Services goodwill; Indirect taxes refund in Korea: We received a refund of indirect taxes of approximately $2.5 million during fiscal 2018 which positively impacted our reported results; and Lower prepaid sales and ad hoc terminal sales: The number of transacting users purchasing prepaid products through our mobile channel decreased due to security features introduced in fiscal 2017. In addition, our results were adversely impacted by fewer ad hoc terminal sales. Consolidated overall results of operations This discussion is based on the amounts which were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: In United States Dollars Table 3 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2018 2017 % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 612,889 610,066 0% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 304,536 292,383 4% Selling, general and administration 193,003 179,262 8% Depreciation and amortization 35,484 41,378 (14% ) Impairment loss 20,917 - nm Operating income 58,949 97,043 (39% ) Interest income 17,885 20,897 (14% ) Interest expense 8,941 3,484 157% Income before income tax expense 67,893 114,456 (41% ) Income tax expense 41,353 42,472 (3% ) Net income before earnings from equity-accounted investments 26,540 71,984 (63% ) Earnings from equity-accounted investments 11,730 2,664 340% Net income 38,270 74,648 (49% ) Less net income attributable to non-controlling interest (880 ) 1,694 (152% ) Net income attributable to us 39,150 72,954 (46% ) 49 In South African Rand Table 4 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2018 2017 ZAR ZAR % 000 000 change Revenue 7,780,687 8,308,001 (6% ) Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 3,866,114 3,981,730 (3% ) Selling, general and administration 2,450,193 2,441,226 0% Depreciation and amortization 450,473 563,493 (20% ) Impairment loss 265,544 - nm Operating income 748,363 1,321,552 (43% ) Interest income 227,052 284,580 (20% ) Interest expense 113,507 47,446 139% Income before income tax expense 861,908 1,558,686 (45% ) Income tax expense 524,980 578,392 (9% ) Net income before earnings from equity-accounted investments 336,928 980,294 (66% ) Earnings from equity-accounted investments 148,914 36,279 310% Net income 485,842 1,016,573 (52% ) Less net income attributable to non-controlling interest (11,172 ) 23,069 (148% ) Net income attributable to us 497,014 993,504 (50% ) In ZAR, the decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower prepaid airtime sales, a decline in the number of SASSA biometrically-enabled UEPS/EMV grant recipients paid and fewer ad hoc terminal sales, which was partially offset by higher revenue from Masterpayment and Transact 24, EPE and related ATM services, and growth in our insurance business. KSNETs revenue contribution was flat compared with fiscal 2017 due to the ongoing impact of regulatory changes in South Korea. In ZAR, the decrease in cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support was primarily due to fewer prepaid airtime and ad hoc terminal sales, which was partially offset by increases in goods and services purchased from third parties, higher expenses incurred due to increased usage of the South African National Payment System by beneficiaries, and inflationary pressures on the cost base. Our selling, general and administration expense increased primarily due to an increase in our allowance for doubtful working capital finance receivables of $7.8 million, a $4.6 million non-cash loss on re-measurement of the previously held equity interest in DNI upon acquisition, the impact of October 2017 annual salary increases for our South African employees, an increase in our allowance for doubtful microlending finance loans receivable, and an increase in goods and services purchased from third parties. These increases were partially offset by fewer agent incentive costs paid in Korea due to weaker trading conditions in fiscal 2018, lower executive remuneration and fewer transaction related expenses in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2017, our selling, general and administration expense included an $8.0 million separation payment to our former chief executive officer, a $3.8 million allowance for credit losses related to a specific customer, and a $1.8 million reversal of stock-based compensation charges related to awards of restricted stock with performance conditions which we believe will not be achieved. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 9.6% and 15.9%, respectively. Our fiscal 2018 margin was 14.6% excluding the $20.9 million impairment loss, the $7.8 million allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable, the $4.6 million DNI re-measurement and the $2.5 million South Korean indirect tax refund. Our fiscal 2017 margin was 17.5% excluding the $8.0 million separation payment to our former chief executive officer, the $3.8 million allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable and the $1.8 million stock-based compensation reversal. We discuss the components of operating income margin under Results of operations by operating segment. Depreciation and amortization decreased primarily due to lower overall amortization of intangible assets that are fully amortized and tangible assets that are fully depreciated. We expect our depreciation and amortization expense to increase in fiscal 2019 as a result of the amortization of intangible assets acquired in the DNI transaction that closed on June 30, 2018 as well as our investment into expanding our branch network and ATM infrastructure in South Africa. Interest on surplus cash decreased to $17.9 million (ZAR 227.1 million) from $20.9 million (ZAR 284.6 million), due primarily to lower average daily ZAR cash balances, partially offset by interest earned on the loan to Finbond and the listed Cedar Cellular note. Interest expense increased to $8.9 million (ZAR 113.5 million) from $3.5 million (ZAR 47.4 million), largely due to interest on the South African facility we obtained to partially fund our investment in Cell C and DNI, somewhat offset by a lower average long-term debt balance on our South Korean debt and a lower interest rate. 50 Fiscal 2018 tax expense was $41.4 million (ZAR 525.0 million) compared to $42.5 million (ZAR 578.4 million) in fiscal 2017. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was 60.9% and higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of an impairment loss, a valuation allowance related to an allowance for doubtful working capital finance receivables created, the DNI re-measurement loss on acquisition, non-deductible expenses (including transaction-related expenditure and non-deductible interest on our South African long-term facility) and the impact of the changes in U.S. federal statutory tax law. Our effective tax rate for the fiscal 2017 was 37.1% and higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including consulting and legal fees) and the tax attributable to distributions from our South African subsidiary. Earnings from equity-accounted investments increased primarily due to the inclusion of our portion of earnings from DNI and Bank Frick and an increase, in USD, in Finbonds net income. Finbond is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and reports its six-month results during our first half and its annual results during our fourth quarter. The table below presents the relative earnings (loss) from our equity accounted investments: Table 5 Year ended June 30, 2018 2017 $ % $ 000 $ 000 change DNI 7,005 - nm Share of net income 9,510 - nm Amortization of intangible assets, net of deferred tax (2,505) - nm Bank Frick (606) - nm Share of net income 201 - nm Amortization of intangible assets, net of deferred tax (403) - nm Other (404) - nm Finbond 5,327 2,503 113% Other 4 161 (98% ) Earnings from equity accounted investments 11,730 2,664 340% Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating income are illustrated below Table 6 In United States Dollars (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2018 % of 2017 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 268,047 44% 249,144 41% 8% International transaction processing 180,027 29% 176,729 29% 2% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 221,906 36% 235,901 39% (6% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 669,980 109% 661,774 109% 1% Intersegment eliminations (57,091 ) (9% ) (51,708 ) (9% ) 10% Consolidated revenue 612,889 100% 610,066 100% - Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 42,796 73% 59,309 61% (28% ) International transaction processing (12,478 ) (21% ) 13,705 14% (191% ) Financial inclusion and applied technologies 55,372 94% 57,785 60% (4% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 85,690 146% 130,799 135% (34% ) Corporate/Eliminations (26,741 ) (46% ) (33,756 ) (35% ) (21% ) Consolidated operating income 58,949 100% 97,043 100% (39% ) 51 Table 7 In South African Rand (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2018 2017 ZAR % of ZAR % of % Operating Segment 000 total 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 3,402,883 44% 3,392,893 41% - International transaction processing 2,285,461 29% 2,406,731 29% (5% ) Financial inclusion and applied technologies 2,817,119 36% 3,212,547 39% (12% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 8,505,463 109% 9,012,171 109% (6% ) Intersegment eliminations (724,776 ) (9% ) (704,170 ) (9% ) 3% Consolidated revenue 7,780,687 100% 8,308,001 100% (6% ) Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 543,299 73% 807,682 61% (33% ) International transaction processing (158,409 ) (21% ) 186,637 14% (185% ) Financial inclusion and applied technologies 702,953 94% 786,928 60% (11% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 1,087,843 146% 1,781,247 135% (39% ) Corporate/Eliminations (339,480 ) (46% ) (459,696 ) (35% ) (26% ) Consolidated operating income 748,363 100% 1,321,551 100% (43% ) South African transaction processing In ZAR, the increase in revenue from our South African transaction processing segment was primarily due to higher EPE related fee and transaction revenue and increased inter-segment transaction processing activities, partially offset by a decline in the number of social welfare grants distributed. The March 2018 Constitutional Court order extended our grant distribution service only for grant recipients that are paid at cash pay-points and, therefore, on April 1, 2018, we introduced a monthly fee to recipients who continued to utilize the SASSA Grindrod card that was issued to them under our 2012 SASSA contract. For additional information refer to Developments During Fiscal 2018CPS and SASSA Contract Termination. Our operating income margin decreased as a result of the fees earned from SASSA and grant recipients on current pricing terms not being sufficient to cover CPS fixed cost to maintain the majority of its cash pay-points, as well as increases in goods and services purchased from third parties and annual salary increases granted to our South African employees. During fiscal 2018, we also recognized a $1.1 million impairment loss related to goodwill allocated to a business that ceased trading during the year. Operating income margin in our South African transaction processing segment for fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 16.0% and 23.8%, respectively. International transaction-based activities Segment revenue was higher during fiscal 2018 due to an increase in processing activities, particularly related to Masterpayments cryptocurrency processing launched in December 2017, partially offset by the ongoing impact of regulatory changes in South Korea on KSNETs revenue. Operating income during fiscal 2018 was lower due to an impairment loss of $19.9 million, an increase in our allowance for doubtful working capital finance receivable of $7.8 million and a decrease in profitability at KSNET, partially offset by an ad hoc refund of indirect taxes of $2.5 million in Korea. Operating income during fiscal 2017 was lower due to an allowance for doubtful working capital finance receivable of $3.8 million and a refund of approximately $0.8 million that had been paid several years ago in connection with industry-wide litigation in Korea that was finalized. Operating income margin for fiscal 2018 and 2017 was (6.9%) and 7.8%, respectively. Excluding the Mastertrading allowance for doubtful working capital finance receivables, the impairment loss and the indirect taxes refund received, segment operating income and margin for fiscal 2018 were $13.7 million and 7.6%, respectively. Excluding the Mastertrading allowance for doubtful working capital finance receivables and the refund received, segment operating income and margin for fiscal 2017 were $16.7 million and 9.4% respectively. Financial inclusion and applied technologies Segment revenue decreased primarily due to fewer prepaid airtime and other value added service sales and lower lending fees, partially offset by the introduction of monthly account fees to our card holders, increased volume from our insurance business and an increase in inter-segment revenues. For additional information regarding the introduction of the monthly account fees, refer to Developments During Fiscal 2018CPS and SASSA Contract Termination. 52 Operating income was also impacted by an increase in the allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable due to the increase in our lending book and higher risks associated with the transition to the new social grant payment arrangements. Operating income margin for the Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment for fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 25.0% and 24.5%, respectively, and was impacted by fewer low margin prepaid product sales, increased revenue from our insurance business, the introduction of a monthly account fee and an increase in inter-segment revenues, partially offset by annual salary increases granted to our South African employees and inflation cost pressures. Corporate/ Eliminations Our corporate expenses have decreased primarily due to lower executive compensation, fewer transaction-related expenditures and a $0.5 million profit related to the sale of XeoHealth, partially offset by a $4.6 million non-cash loss on remeasurement of the previously held equity interest in DNI, higher stock-based compensation charges (net of reversals), additional directors fees and a modest increase in U.S. dollar denominated goods and services purchased from third parties. Our corporate expenses for fiscal 2017, included an $8.0 million separation payment made to our former chief executive officer and a $1.9 million reversal of stock-based compensation charges. Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016 The following factors had an influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2017 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Favorable impact from the weakening of the U.S. dollar against ZAR: The U.S. dollar depreciated by 5% against the ZAR during fiscal 2017, which positively impacted our reported results; Separation costs related to former chief executive officer: We paid our former chief executive officer $8 million in cash related to his separation from our company in fiscal 2017. In addition, the vesting of 200,000 shares of restricted stock granted to him in August 2016 was accelerated which resulted in an additional stock-based compensation charge of approximately $1.6 million during fiscal 2017; Growth in lending and insurance businesses: We continued to achieve volume growth and operating efficiencies in our lending and insurance businesses during fiscal 2017, which has resulted in an improved contribution to our financial inclusion revenue and operating income; Ongoing contributions from EasyPay Everywhere: EPE revenue and operating income growth was driven primarily by ongoing EPE adoption as we further expanded our customer base utilizing our ATM infrastructure; Masterpayment expansion costs and $3.8 million allowance for credit losses: Masterpayment has incurred additional employment costs as it grows its staff complement to execute its expansion plan into new markets. We have provided an allowance for credit losses of $3.8 million related to an amount due from one customer; Regulatory changes in South Korea governing fees on card transactions: Regulations governing the fees that may be charged on card transactions have adversely impacted our revenues and operating income in South Korea, partially offset by transaction volume growth; Lower prepaid sales resulting from improved security features to our Manje products: The introduction of our new biometric-linking feature was implemented in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and adversely impacted the number of transacting users purchasing prepaid products through our mobile channel; Higher transaction-related costs in fiscal 2017: We incurred $3.3 million in transaction-related costs due to various acquisition and investment initiatives pursued during fiscal 2017; and Lower tax impact of dividends from South African subsidiary in fiscal 2017 compared with 2016: There were fewer distributions from our South African subsidiary during fiscal 2017, and our tax expense includes approximately $1.5 million related to the tax impact, including withholding taxes, resulting from these distributions. Our income tax expense for fiscal 2016 includes approximately $6.2 million related to the tax impact, including withholding taxes, resulting from distributions from our South African subsidiary. 53 Consolidated overall results of operations This discussion is based on the amounts which were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: In United States Dollars Table 8 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2017 2016 % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 610,066 590,749 3% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 292,383 290,101 1% Selling, general and administration 179,262 145,886 23% Depreciation and amortization 41,378 40,394 2% Operating income 97,043 114,368 (15% ) Interest income 20,897 15,292 37% Interest expense 3,484 3,423 2% Income before income tax expense 114,456 126,237 (9% ) Income tax expense 42,472 42,080 1% Net income before earnings from equity-accounted investments 71,984 84,157 (14% ) Earnings from equity-accounted investments 2,664 639 317% Net income 74,648 84,796 (12% ) Less net income attributable to non-controlling interest 1,694 2,342 (28% ) Net income attributable to us 72,954 82,454 (12% ) In South African Rand Table 9 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2017 2016 ZAR ZAR % 000 000 change Revenue 8,308,001 8,497,452 (2% ) Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 3,981,730 4,172,870 (5% ) Selling, general and administration 2,441,226 2,098,453 16% Depreciation and amortization 563,493 581,036 (3% ) Operating income 1,321,552 1,645,093 (20% ) Interest income 284,580 219,963 29% Interest expense 47,446 49,237 (4% ) Income before income tax expense 1,558,686 1,815,819 (14% ) Income tax expense 578,392 605,287 (4% ) Net income before earnings from equity-accounted investments 980,294 1,210,532 (19% ) Earnings from equity-accounted investments 36,279 9,192 295% Net income 1,016,573 1,219,724 (17% ) Less net income attributable to non-controlling interest 23,069 33,688 (32% ) Net income attributable to us 993,504 1,186,036 (16% ) In ZAR, the decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower prepaid airtime sales, fewer ad hoc terminal sales, and a lower contribution from KSNET due to regulatory changes in South Korea, which was partially offset by more fees generated from our EPE and ATM offerings, improved lending and insurance activities, the inclusion of Masterpayments businesses, and an increase in the number of SASSA UEPS/EMV beneficiaries paid. In ZAR, the decrease in cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support was primarily due to fewer prepaid airtime and ad hoc terminal sales, which was partially offset by higher expenses incurred due to increased usage of the South African National Payment System by beneficiaries, expenses incurred to operate our EPE and ATM offerings, and the inclusion of Masterpayments businesses. In ZAR, our selling, general and administration expense increased primarily due to a higher employee costs resulting from our EPE roll-out in fiscal 2016, the impact of October 2016 annual salary increases for our South African and UK-based employees, an $8.0 million separation payment to our former chief executive officer, an allowance for credit losses related to a specific customer of $3.8 million, as well as increases in goods and services purchased from third parties. 54 Our fiscal 2016 selling, general and administration expense includes a $1.9 million gain on re-measurement of the previously held interest related to the T24 acquisition and a gain of ZAR 30 million ($2.2 million) resulting from the change in accounting for Finbond due to the appointment of our representative to Finbonds board of directors. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2017 and 2016 was 15.9% and 19.4%, respectively. Our fiscal 2017 margin was 17.5% excluding the $8.0 million separation payment to our former chief executive officer, the $3.8 million allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable and the $1.8 million stock-based compensation reversal. We discuss the components of operating income margin under Results of operations by operating segment. The decrease is primarily attributable to the separation payment to our former chief executive officer and higher cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support referred to above, and partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expenses. In ZAR, depreciation and amortization decreased primarily due to lower overall amortization of intangible assets that are fully amortized and tangible assets that are fully depreciated. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in acquisition-related intangible asset amortization resulting from recent transactions, including Masterpayment and Pros Software. In ZAR, interest on surplus cash increased to $20.9 million (ZAR 284.6 million) from $15.3 million (ZAR 220.0 million), due primarily to the interest received from our loan to Finbond and higher average daily ZAR cash balances and ZAR interest rates, partially offset by the lower interest earned on the U.S. dollar cash reserves that we converted from ZAR through distributions from our South African subsidiary. In ZAR, interest expense decreased to $3.5 million (ZAR 47.4 million) from $3.4 million (ZAR 49.2 million), due to a lower average long-term debt balance on our South Korean debt and a lower interest rate, offset by a $1.2 million (ZAR 16.0 million) guarantee fee that was expensed related to the financing for the Blue Label Telecoms Limited investment that was ultimately not pursued. Fiscal 2017 tax expense was $42.5 million (ZAR 578.4 million) compared to $42.1 million (ZAR 605.3 million) in fiscal 2016. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2017, was 37.1% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including consulting and legal fees) and the tax impact attributable to distributions from our South African subsidiary. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2016, was 33.3% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including consulting and legal fees) and the tax impact, including withholding taxes, of approximately $6.2 million attributable to distributions from our South African subsidiary. Earnings from equity-accounted investments for fiscal 2017 have increased primarily due to the inclusion of our portion of Finbonds net income. Finbond is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and reports its six-month results during our first half and its annual results during our fourth quarter. Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating income are illustrated below Table 10 In United States Dollars (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2017 % of 2016 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 249,144 41% 212,574 36% 17% International transaction processing 176,729 29% 169,807 29% 4% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 235,901 39% 249,403 42% (5% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 661,774 109% 631,784 107% 5% Intersegment eliminations (51,708 ) (9% ) (41,035 ) (7% ) 26% Consolidated revenue 610,066 100% 590,749 100% 3% Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 59,309 61% 51,386 45% 15% International transaction processing 13,705 14% 23,389 20% (41% ) Financial inclusion and applied technologies 57,785 60% 54,999 48% 5% Subtotal: Operating segments 130,799 135% 129,774 113% 1% Corporate/Eliminations (33,756 ) (35% ) (15,406 ) (13% ) 119% Consolidated operating income 97,043 100% 114,368 100% (15% ) 55 Table 11 In South African Rand (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2017 2016 ZAR % of ZAR % of % Operating Segment 000 total 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 3,392,893 41% 3,057,707 36% 11% International transaction processing 2,406,731 29% 2,442,538 29% (1% ) Financial inclusion and applied technologies 3,212,547 39% 3,587,463 42% (10% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 9,012,171 109% 9,087,708 107% (1% ) Intersegment eliminations (704,170 ) (9% ) (590,256 ) (7% ) 19% Consolidated revenue 8,308,001 100% 8,497,452 100% (2% ) Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 807,682 61% 739,147 45% 9% International transaction processing 186,637 14% 336,432 20% (45% ) Financial inclusion and applied technologies 786,928 60% 791,117 48% (1% ) Subtotal: Operating segments 1,781,247 135% 1,866,696 113% (5% ) Corporate/Eliminations (459,696 ) (35% ) (221,603 ) (13% ) 107% Consolidated operating income 1,321,551 100% 1,645,093 100% (20% ) South African transaction processing In ZAR, the increase in revenue and operating income from our South African transaction processing segment was primarily due to higher EPE transaction revenue as a result of increased usage of our ATMs, increased inter-segment transaction processing activities, and a modest increase in the number of social welfare grants distributed. Operating income margin in our South African transaction processing segment for fiscal 2017 and 2016 was 23.8% and 24.2%, respectively. Our fiscal 2017 margin includes higher EPE revenue as a result of increased ATM transactions, an increase in inter-segment transaction processing activities, an increase in the number of beneficiaries paid in fiscal 2017 and a modest increase in the margin of transaction fees generated from cardholders using the South African National Payment System, which was partially offset by annual salary increases granted to our South African employees. International transaction-based activities In calendar 2016, South Korean regulators introduced specific regulations governing the fees that may be charged on card transactions, as is the case in most other developed economies. These regulations have a direct impact on card issuers in South Korea and, consistent with global practices, card issuers have renegotiated their fees with South Korean VAN companies, including KSNET, which has had an adverse impact on KSNETs financial performance. Revenue from our International transaction processing segment increased during fiscal 2017, primarily due to the inclusion of T24 and Masterpayment; however, this growth was partially offset by a lower contribution from KSNET due to the regulatory changes. Operating income from our International transaction processing segment during fiscal 2017 was lower due to a decrease in revenue at KSNET; losses incurred by Masterpayment as it grows its staff complement to execute its expansion plan into new markets and an allowance for credit losses related to a specific customer of $3.8 million; and ongoing ZAZOO start-up costs in the UK and India, which was partially offset by a positive contribution by T24. Operating income and margin for fiscal 2017 was also positively impacted by a refund of approximately $0.8 million that had been paid several years ago in connection with industry-wide litigation that has now been finalized. Operating income margin in our International transaction processing segment for fiscal 2017 and 2016, was 7.8% and 13.8%, respectively. Financial inclusion and applied technologies In ZAR, revenue and operating income from our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment decreased primarily due to the introduction of our new biometric linking feature for prepaid airtime and other value added services, which adversely impacted sales, as well as fewer ad hoc terminal sales, partially offset by increased volumes in our lending and insurance businesses, an increase in inter-segment revenues and higher card sales. Operating income margin from our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment was 24.5% and 22.1%, during fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively, and has increased primarily due to improved revenues from our lending and insurance businesses and an increase in inter-segment revenues and fewer low margin prepaid product sales, offset by fewer ad hoc terminal sales and annual salary increases granted to our South African employees. 56 Corporate/ Eliminations During fiscal 2017, our corporate expenses have increased primarily due to the separation payment made to our former chief executive officer, higher transaction-related expenditures and amortization costs and modest increases in U.S. dollar denominated goods and services purchased from third parties and directors fees. These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation charges; lower provision for incentives, including no cash incentive award for fiscal 2017 for the chief executive officer and chief financial officer; and the impact of the stronger U.S. dollar on goods and services procured in other currencies, primarily the ZAR. Our fiscal 2016 corporate expenses include the fair value gain on re-measurement of the previously held interest related to the T24 acquisition and the gain resulting from the change in accounting for Finbond. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were $90.1 million and comprised mainly ZAR-denominated balances of ZAR 648.8 million ($47.3 million), KRW-denominated balances of KRW 32.8 billion ($29.5 million), U.S. dollar-denominated balances of $6.3 million, and other currency deposits, primarily Botswana pula, of $7.0 million, all amounts translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2018. The decrease in our cash balances from June 30, 2017, was primarily due to our investments in DNI, Bank Frick, Cell C and a $9 million listed note, scheduled repayments of our South African long-term debt, unscheduled repayment of our Korean debt in full, repayment of our short-term facilities, growth in our South African lending book, and capital expenditures, which was partially offset by cash generated by our core businesses and a new South Africa long-term facility. Based on information available at the time of this report, we believe that our cash and credit facilities are sufficient to fund our future operations for at least the next four quarters. We generally invest surplus cash held by our South African operations in overnight call accounts that we maintain at South African banking institutions, and surplus cash held by our non-South African companies in U.S. dollar denominated money market accounts. We invest surplus cash in Korea in short-term investment accounts at Korean banking institutions. Historically, we have financed most of our operations, research and development, working capital, and capital expenditures, as well as acquisitions and strategic investments, through internally generated cash and our credit facilities. When considering whether to borrow under our financing facilities, we consider the cost of capital, cost of financing, opportunity cost of utilizing surplus cash and availability of tax efficient structures to moderate financing costs. For instance, in fiscal 2018, we obtained loan facilities from South African banks to fund a portion of our investments in Cell C and DNI as well as a portion of our working capital requirements. Refer to Notes 12 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2018, for additional information related to these loan facilities. We have a short-term South African credit facility with Nedbank of ZAR 400 million ($29.2 million), which consists of (i) a primary amount of up to ZAR 200 million, and (ii) a secondary amount of up to ZAR 200 million. The primary amount is comprised of an overdraft facility of up to ZAR 50 million and indirect and derivative facilities of up to ZAR 150 million, which include letters of guarantee, letters of credit and forward exchange contracts. As of June 30, 2018, the interest rate on the overdraft facility was 8.85% . As of June 30, 2018, we had used none of the overdraft and ZAR 108.0 million ($7.9 million, translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2018) of the indirect and derivative facilities to support guarantees issued by Nedbank to various third parties on our behalf. We have a short-term U.S. dollar-denominated overdraft credit facility with Bank Frick of $10.0 million. As of June 30, 2018, we had not utilized this facility. The interest rate on the facility is 4.50% plus the 3-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and interest is payable on a quarterly basis. The 3-month U.S. dollar LIBOR rate was 2.31175% on June 29, 2018. The facility has no fixed term, however, it may be terminated by either party with six weeks written notice. As of June 30, 2018, we had outstanding long-term debt, net of deferred fees, of ZAR 680.1 million (approximately $49.5 million translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2018) under our South African facilities. Interest due on the facility is based on the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, or JIBAR, in effect from time to time plus a margin of (i) 2.25% for the Facility A loan, (ii) 3.5% for the Facility B loan, (iii) 2.25% for the Facility C loan and (iv) 2.75% for the Facility D loan. The JIBAR rate has been set at 6.96% for the period to September 29, 2018. Principal repayments on the outstanding Facility A and Facility B loans are due in four quarterly installments of ZAR 125.0 million each commencing September 29, 2018. Principal repayment on the Facility C loan is to be determined by the Lenders based on the date of the repayment of any borrowings under the Facility A loan. Principal repayments on the Facility D loan are due in seven quarterly installments, of ZAR 26.3 million each, commencing on September 29, 2018. Voluntary prepayments are permitted without early repayment fees or penalties. 57 On June 28, 2018, DNI entered into a Revolving Credit Facility Agreement under which DNI obtained a ZAR 200.0 million revolving credit facility with a term of three years to June 2021 to finance the acquisition and/or requisition of telecommunication towers. We had not utilized the revolving credit facility as of June 30, 2018. We have a unique cash flow cycle due to the funding mechanism under our SASSA contact and our pre-funding of certain merchants. We generally receive the grant funds 48 hours prior to the provision of the service in a trust account and any interest we earn on these amounts is for the benefit of SASSA. We are required to initiate payments before the start of the pay cycle month in order to have cash, merchant and interbank funds available when the payment cycle commences and this process requires that we have access to the grant funds to be paid. These funds are recorded as settlement assets and liabilities. Historically, we opened the pay cycle at certain participating merchants a few days before the payment of grants at pay sites, however, currently we do not commence the payment cycle at participating merchants before the start of the pay cycle month. We use our funds to pre-fund certain merchants for grants paid through our merchant acquiring system on our behalf a day or two before the pay cycle opens. We typically reimburse merchants that are not pre-funded within 48 hours after they distribute the grants to the social welfare recipient cardholders. In addition, as a transaction processor, we receive cash from: customers on whose behalf we process off-payroll payments that we will disburse to customer employees, payroll-related payees and other payees designated by the customer; and credit card companies (as well as other types of payment services) which have business relationships with merchants selling goods and services via the internet in South Korea and through Transact24 that are our customers and on whose behalf we process the transactions between various parties and settle the funds from the credit card companies to our merchant customers. These funds do not represent cash that is available to us and we present these funds, and the associated liability, outside of our current assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Movements in these cash balances are presented in investing activities and movements in the obligations are presented in financing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from operating activities for fiscal 2018 increased to $132.6 million (ZAR 1.7 billion) from $97.2 million (ZAR 1.3 billion) for fiscal 2017. Excluding the impact of interest received, interest paid on our Korean and South Africa debt and taxes presented in the table below, the increase relates primarily to the receipt of certain working capital loans outstanding, offset partially by the expansion of our South African lending book and weaker trading activity during fiscal 2018 compared to 2017. During fiscal 2018, we paid interest of $7.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively, under our South African and South Korean debt facilities. Cash flows from operating activities for fiscal 2017 decreased to $97.2 million (ZAR 1.3 billion) from $116.6 million (ZAR 1.7 billion) for fiscal 2016. Excluding the impact of interest received, interest paid under our Korean debt and taxes presented in the table below, the decrease relates primarily to the growth of Masterpayments working capital finance offering and the separation payment made to our former chief executive officer, offset by an increase in cash from operating activities resulted from improved trading activity during fiscal 2017. During fiscal 2017, we paid interest of $1.5 million under our South Korean debt facility. During fiscal 2018, we made a first provisional tax payment of $17.7 million (ZAR 231.2 million) and a second provisional tax payment of $17.0 million (ZAR 225.9 million) related to our 2018 tax year in South Africa. We also paid taxes totaling $4.9 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily South Korea. During fiscal 2017, we made a first provisional tax payment of $18.2 million (ZAR 252.0 million) and a second provisional tax payment of $17.2 million (ZAR 221.7 million) related to our 2017 tax year in South Africa. We paid dividend withholding taxes of $1.5 million (ZAR 21.3 million). We also paid taxes totaling $8.1 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily South Korea. 58 Taxes paid during fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Table 12 Year ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR 000 000 000 000 000 000 First provisional payments 17,739 18,192 15,956 231,200 251,968 239,939 Second provisional payments 17,008 17,197 13,733 225,887 221,734 207,329 Taxation paid related to prior years 1,859 1,624 3,436 24,432 22,365 46,840 Taxation refunds received (430 ) (1,414 ) (176 ) (5,480 ) (19,481 ) (2,402 ) Dividend withholding taxation - 1,471 4,183 - 21,300 60,000 Total South African 36,176 37,070 37,132 476,039 497,886 551,706 Foreign, primarily South Korea 4,889 8,095 4,991 63,261 109,800 74,844 Total tax paid 41,065 45,165 42,123 539,300 607,686 626,550 We expect to pay additional second provisional payments in South Africa of approximately $1.4 million (ZAR 19.0 million translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2018) related to our 2018 tax year in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Cash flows from investing activities During fiscal 2018, we paid approximately $151.0 million (ZAR 2.0 billion) for a 15% interest in Cell C, $88.7 million (ZAR 1.2 billion) for a 55% interest in DNI, $51.9 million for a 35% interest in Bank Frick, and $9.0 million for a 7.625% interest in a listed note. Fiscal 2018 includes capital expenditure of $9.7 million (ZAR 124.7 million), primarily for the acquisition of payment processing terminals in Korea and ATMs in South Africa. During fiscal 2017, we paid approximately $25.8 million for an approximate 13.5% interest in MobiKwik; provided a $10.0 million loan to Finbond; provided a $2.0 million loan to KZ One and paid approximately $2.9 million and $1.7 million, respectively, net of cash received, to acquire 100% of each of Malta FS and Pros Softwares ordinary shares. Fiscal 2017 includes capital expenditure of $11.2 million (ZAR 152.5 million), primarily for the acquisition of payment processing terminals in Korea. Our Korean capital expenditures have declined due to regulatory changes in South Korea, which prohibit the provision of payment equipment to the majority of merchants. During fiscal 2016, we paid approximately $14.8 million and $1.7 million, respectively, net of cash received, to acquire 60% of Masterpayment and approximately 56% of Transact24s ordinary shares. We also exercised our rights under the Finbond rights offer and paid approximately $8.9 million (ZAR 136.1 million) to acquire an additional 40,733,723 shares of common stock of Finbond. Fiscal 2016 includes capital expenditure of $35.8 million (ZAR 514.9 million), primarily for the acquisition of payment processing terminals in Korea and the rollout of ATMs in South Africa. Cash flows from financing activities During fiscal 2018, we utilized approximately $113.2 million (ZAR 1.46 billion) of our South African facility to partially fund our investments in Cell C and DNI and utilized approximately $0.3 million of our Korean facility to pay a portion of our quarterly interest due. We made accumulated scheduled South African debt facility payments of $60.5 million (ZAR 776.3 million) and made a $16.6 million payment to settle our outstanding South Korean debt facility in full. We also utilized $44.9 million of our overdraft facilities and repaid $62.9 million of these facilities. During fiscal 2017, we sold 5 million shares of our common stock for $45.0 million and received approximately $2.9 million from the exercise of stock options. We also paid approximately $45.3 million to repurchase 4,407,360 shares of our common stock and also paid $0.5 million, on July 1, 2016, related to settlement of amounts outstanding related to the repurchases at the end of June 2016. We also made a $28.5 million unscheduled repayment of our Korean debt, made a scheduled $7.4 million Korean debt repayment, utilized approximately $0.8 million of our Korean borrowings to pay quarterly interest due and utilized approximately $16.2 million of our CHF facilities. In addition, we paid a guarantee fee of $1.1 million related to the guarantee issued by RMB and paid a dividend of approximately $2.1 million to certain of our non-controlling interests. During fiscal 2016, we received approximately $107.7 million from the issue of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock and approximately $3.8 million from the exercise of stock options. We made scheduled Korean long-term debt repayments of approximately $8.7 million, and utilized approximately $2.1 million of our Korean borrowings to pay quarterly interest due. We also acquired 2,426,704 shares of our common stock and paid approximately $26.6 million during fiscal 2016 and the remaining $0.5 million on July 1, 2016, related to these repurchases and, in June 2016, paid approximately $11.2 million for all of the shares of Masterpayment that we did not already own. 59 Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2018: Table 13 Payments due by Period, as of June 30, 2018 (in $ 000s) Less More than 1 1-3 3-5 than 5 Total year years years years Long-term debt obligations (A) 53,474 47,446 6,028 - - Contingent amount related to DNI investment (B) 29,143 - 29,143 - - Operating lease obligations 12,157 5,531 4,662 1,964 - Capital lease obligations 495 446 49 - - Purchase obligations 5,619 5,619 - - - Capital commitments 1,081 1,081 - - - Other long-term obligations (C)(D) 11,358 - - - 11,358 Total 113,327 60,123 39,882 1,964 11,358 (A) Includes $50.0 million of long-term debt and interest payable at the rate applicable on June 30, 2018, under our South Africa debt facility. (B) Under the amended DNI transaction agreements, we are obliged to pay to DNI an additional amount not exceeding ZAR 400 million ($29.1 million) in cash, subject to DNI achieving certain performance targets. The present value of the ZAR 400 million, or ZAR 373.6 million ($27.2 million), is included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2018. (C) Includes policyholder liabilities of $2.2 million related to our insurance business. All amounts translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2018. (D) We have excluded cross-guarantees in the aggregate amount of $7.9 million issued as of June 30, 2018, to Nedbank to secure guarantees it has issued to third parties on our behalf as the amounts that will be settled in cash are not known and the timing of any payments is uncertain. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures for the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Table 14 Year ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR Operating Segment 000 000 000 000 000 000 South African transaction processing 3,988 2,473 5,101 51,269 33,669 73,374 International transaction processing 4,397 7,745 28,029 56,527 105,446 403,174 Financial inclusion and applied technologies 1,264 977 2,667 16,250 13,302 38,363 Consolidated total 9,649 11,195 35,797 124,046 152,417 514,911 Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, are discussed under Liquidity and Capital ResourcesCash flows from investing activities. All of our capital expenditures for the past three fiscal years were funded through internally-generated funds. We had outstanding capital commitments as of June 30, 2018, of $1.1 million related mainly to ATMs required to maintain and expand our operations. We expect to fund these expenditures through internally-generated funds. In addition to these capital expenditures, we expect that capital spending for fiscal 2019 will also relate to expanding our operations in South Korea South Africa. 60