Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCurrency Exchange Rate Information.). Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. Similarly, depreciation in the ZAR may negatively impact the prices at which our stock trades. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging using forward contracts relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in U.S. dollars or euros. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. 17 South Africas high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment, relative to peer countries in Africa and other emerging economies, and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. In addition, South Africa has a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. The economy of South Africa is exposed to high rates of inflation, interest and corporate tax, which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. Furthermore, the South African government requires additional income to fund future government expenditures and may be required, among other things, to increase existing income tax rates, including the corporate income tax rate, amend existing tax legislation or introduce additional taxes. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly-developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. High interest rates increase the cost of our debt financing, though conversely, they also increase the amount of income we earn on any cash balances. The South African corporate income tax rate, of 27%, is higher than the U.S. federal income tax rate, of 21%. Any increase in the effective South African corporate income tax rate would adversely impact our profitability and cash flow generation. Risks Relating to Government Regulation We are required to comply with certain laws and regulations, including economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We are subject to U.S. and other trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign trade control laws and regulations, including various export controls and economic sanctions programs, such as those administered by OFAC. We monitor compliance in accordance with the 10 principles as set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles, the Organisation for Economic Co- operation and Development recommendations relating to corruption, and the International Labor Organization Protocol in terms of certain of the items to be monitored. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating trade control laws as well as sanctions regulations. Violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international trade control laws and regulations, including trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, and provide regular training to our employees to create awareness about the risks of violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations and to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not act in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Any expansion into developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships, could increase the risk of OFAC violations in the future. In addition, our payment processing and financial services activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under the various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. 18 We are required to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the FCPA and UK Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate our business, which could adversely impact our future growth. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business, or securing any improper business advantage, and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. The UK Bribery Act includes provisions that extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals not employed by a government and the act is also more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Some of the international locations in which we operate or have investments lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the anti-corruption laws and regulations could subject us to substantial penalties, and the requirement that we comply with these laws could put us at a competitive disadvantage against companies that are not required to comply. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a comm only accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us. Violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S., South African and other international anti-corruption laws and regulations, and provide regular training to our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not have a South African banking license and, therefore, we provide our EPE solution through an arrangement with a third-party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our EPE business without alternate means of access to a banking license. The South African retail banking market is highly regulated. Under current law and regulations, our EasyPay Everywhere (EPE) business activities require us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. We are not currently so registered, but we have an agreement with Grindrod Bank, a subsidiary of African Bank Limited, that enables us to implement our EPE program in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If this agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate these services unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. Furthermore, we have to comply with the strict anti-money laundering and customer identification regulations of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB), when we open new bank accounts for our customers and when they transact. Failure to effectively implement and monitor responses to these regulations may result in significant fines or prosecution of Grindrod Bank and ourselves. In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. Smart Life was granted an Authorized Financial Service Provider, or FSP, license on June 9, 2015, and EasyPay Financial Services (Pty) Ltd and Net1 Mobile Solutions (Pty) Ltd were each granted FSP licenses on July 11, 2017. If our FSP licenses are cancelled, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa unless we are able to enter into a representative arrangement with a third party FSP. Furthermore, the proposed Conduct of Financial Institutions Bill will make significant changes to the current licensing regime. The second draft of the Conduct of Financial Institutions Bill was published for public comment on 29 September 2020. While the proposals currently indicate that existing licenses will be converted, if we are not successful in our efforts to obtain a conversion of the existing licenses or cannot comply with the new conduct standards to be published at the same time under the Financial Sector Regulation Act, No. 9 of 2017, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa. 19 We may be subject to regulations regarding privacy, data use and/or security, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulations in a number of the countries in which we operate relating to the processing (which includes, inter alia , the collection, use, retention, security and transfer) of personal information about the people (whether natural or juristic) who use our products and services. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Amendments to the NCA were signed into law in South Africa in August 2019. Compliance with these amendments may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. In August 2019, the National Credit Amendment Bill, or debt-relief bill, was signed into law in South Africa. The effective date of the debt-relief bill has not yet been announced and has been significantly delayed. We believe that the debt-relief bill will restrict the ability of financial services providers to provide lending products to certain low-income earners and will increase the cost of credit to these consumers. As a result, compliance with the debt -relief bill may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. Furthermore, we expect that it will take us, and other financial services providers, some time to fully understand, interpret and implement this new legislation in our lending processes and practices. Non-compliance with the provisions of this new legislation may result in financial loss and penalties, reputational loss or other administrative punishment. Risks Relating to our Common Stock If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to conduct our business as an operating company and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are an operating company whose business is focused on developing and offering payment solutions, transaction processing services and financial technologies across multiple industries directly and through our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our conduct, public filings and announcements hold us out as such an operating company and do not hold us out as being engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We own, and in the past have owned, certain assets that may be deemed to be investment securities within the meaning of Section 3(a)(2) of the Investment Company Act. The fluctuating value of our assets that may be deemed to be investment securities, could cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act if the value of such investment securities exceeds certain defined thresholds. If we are deemed an investment company and not entitled to an exception or exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act, we would have to register as an investment company, modify our asset profile or otherwise change our business so that it falls outside the definition of an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Registering as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act could, among other things, materially limit our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions and otherwise would subject us to substantial and costly regulation. Failure to register, if required, would significantly impair our ability to continue to engage in our business and would have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has periodically experienced significant volatility. During the 2023 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $3.02 to a high of $5.97. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: any adverse developments in litigation or regulatory actions in which we are involved; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate; announcement of additional BEE transactions, especially one involving the issuance or potential issuance of equity securities or dilution or sale of our existing business in South Africa; quarterly variations in our operating results; significant fair value adjustments or impairment in respect of investments or intangible assets; announcements of acquisitions or disposals; the timing of, or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of major projects; large purchases or sales of our common stock; and general conditions in the markets in which we operate. 20 Additionally, shares of our common stock can be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we have no control. The put right we granted to the IFC Investors on the occurrence of certain triggering events may have adverse impacts on us. In May 2016, we issued an aggregate of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock to the IFC Investors, of which, as of June 30, 2023, the IFC Investors held 7,366,866 shares. We granted the IFC Investors certain rights, including the right to require us to repurchase any share held by the IFC Investors pursuant to the May 2016 transaction upon the occurrence of specified triggering events, which we refer to as a put right. The put price per share will be the higher of the price per share paid to us by the IFC Investors and the volume-weighted average price per share prevailing for the 60 trading days preceding the triggering event, except that with respect to a put right triggered by rejection of a bona fide offer, the put price per share will be the highest price offered by the offeror. If a put triggering event occurs, it could adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, the existence of the put right could also affect whether or on what terms a third party might in the future offer to purchase our company. Our response to any such offer could also be complicated, delayed or otherwise influenced by the existence of the put right. Approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with those of our other shareholders. There is a concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock because approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. Based on their most recent SEC filings disclosing ownership of our shares, Value Capital Partners (Pty) Ltd, or VCP, and IFC Investors, beneficially own approximately 25% and 12% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2023, respectively. The interests of VCP and the IFC Investors may be different from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of the significant combined ownership by VCP and the IFC Investors, they may be able, if they act together, to significantly influence the voting outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, thus depriving shareholders of a premium for their shares, or facilitating a change of control that other shareholders may oppose. We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of shares of our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of such shares. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. We may also wish to raise additional equity funding to reduce the amount of debt funding on our balance sheet. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations, to reduce debt or to acquire other businesses, issue shares in a BEE transaction, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders and any such additional shares would likely be freely tradable, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 21 Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, especially over companies that we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, we are required to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal controls also applies to companies that we acquire. Some of these companies may not be required to comply with Sarbanes prior to the time we acquire them. The integration of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting could require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. If we fail to successfully integrate the operations of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the markets perception of our business and our stock price. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based upon U.S. laws, including federal securities laws or other foreign laws, against us or certain of our directors and officers and experts. While Lesaka is incorporated in the state of Florida, United States, the company is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa and substantially all of the companys assets are located outside the United States. In addition, the majority of Lesakas directors and all its officers reside outside of the United States and the majority of our experts, including our independent registered public accountants, are based in South Africa. As a result, even though you could effect service of legal process upon Lesaka, as a Florida corporation, in the United States, you may not be able to collect any judgment obtained against Lesaka in the United States, including any judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws, because substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process upon the majority of our directors and officers or upon our experts within the United States or elsewhere outside South Africa and any judgment obtained against any of our foreign directors, officers and experts in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by a South African court. South Africa is not a party to any treaties regarding the enforcement of foreign commercial judgments, as opposed to foreign arbitral awards. Accordingly, a foreign judgment that is not recognized in South Africa has no extra territorial effect, and is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which may be recognized and enforced by South African courts provided that: the court which pronounced the judgment had international jurisdiction and competence to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); the judgment has not lapsed; the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy in South Africa, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that no award is enforceable unless the defendant was duly served with documents initiating proceedings, that he or she was given a fair opportunity to be heard and that he or she enjoyed the right to be legally represented in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; the judgment was not obtained by improper or fraudulent means; the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or foreign revenue law or any award of multiple or punitive damages; and the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Business Act 99 of 1978 (as amended), of the Republic of South Africa. It has been the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. South African courts have awarded compensation to shareholders who have suffered damages as a result of a diminution in the value of their shares based on various actions by the corporation and its management. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unenforceable in the South African legal system, that does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. The award of punitive damages is governed by the relevant South African legislation, the Conventional Penalties Act 15 of 1962 (as amended). 22 Whether a judgment was contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable, or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by a South African court, it will be payable in South African currency unless approval is obtained from SARB or an Authorised Dealer of SARB, to settle the judgement in another currency. Also, under South Africas exchange control laws, the approval of SARB or an Authorised Dealer is required before a defendant resident in South Africa may pay money to a non-resident plaintiff in satisfaction of a foreign judgment enforced by a court in South Africa. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws may be brought before South African courts. A plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. Furthermore, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South African courts. In reaching the foregoing conclusions in respect of South Africa, we consulted with our South African legal counsel, Werksmans Inc. 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease our corporate headquarters facility which consists of approximately 87,000 square feet in Johannesburg, South Africa. We also lease properties throughout South Africa, including an approximately 36,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Lazer Park, Johannesburg, 194 financial services branches, 26 financial service express stores and 22 satellite branches. We also lease additional office space in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban, South Africa; and Gaborone, Botswana. These leases expire at various dates through 2028, assuming the exercise of options to extend. We believe that we have adequate facilities for our current business operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Litigation related to CPS As a result of significant obligations relating to, and ongoing litigation arising out of, CPS SASSA contract, including the exhaustion of CPS legal appeals against a court judgment to repay additional SASSA implementation costs, CPS was placed into liquidation in October 2020. As a result, CPS liquidators are currently in control of the CPS liquidated estate and are managing the affairs in relation thereto. We have proven our claims and are noted as a creditor along with other creditors in the liquidated estate. See Item 1ARisk Factors Cash Paymaster Services, or CPS, has been placed into liquidation. While no claim has been made against Lesaka for CPS obligations, we cannot provide assurance that no such claim will be made for additional information. There are no other material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, to which we are a party or of which any of our property is the subject. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 24 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market information Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, in the United States under the symbol LSAK and on the JSE in South Africa under the symbol LSK. The Nasdaq is our principal market for the trading of our common stock and we have a secondary listing on the JSE. Our transfer agent in the United States is Computershare Shareowner Services LLC, 480 Washington Blvd, Jersey City, New Jersey, 07310. According to the records of our transfer agent, as of August 31, 2023, there were 8 shareholders of record of our common stock. We believe that a substantially greater number of beneficial owners of our common stock hold their shares though banks, brokers, and other financial institutions (i.e. street name). Our transfer agent in South Africa is JSE Investor Services (Pty) Ltd, One Exchange Square, 2 Gwen Lane, Sandown, Sandton, 2196, South Africa. Dividends We have not paid any dividends on shares of our common stock during our last two fiscal years and presently intend to retain future earnings to finance the expansion of the business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, debt commitments, expansion plans, financial condition and other relevant factors. Issuer purchases of equity securities On February 5, 2020, our board of directors approved the replenishment of our existing share repurchase authorization to repurchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. The table below presents information relating to purchases of shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023: Period (a) Total number of shares purchased (b) Average price paid per share ($) (c) Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (d) Maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs ($) April 2023 0 - - 100,000,000 May 2023 (1) 246,606 3.26 - 100,000,000 June 2023 (1) 2,881 3.96 - 100,000,000 Total 249,487 - (1) Relates to the delivery of shares of our common stock to us by certain of our employees to settle their income tax liabilities. These shares do not reduce the repurchase authority under the share repurchase program. 25 Share performance graph The chart below compares the five-year cumulative return, assuming the reinvestment of dividends, where applicable, on our common stock with that of the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Industrial Index. This graph assumes $100 was invested on June 30, 2018, in each of our common stock, the companies in the S&P 500 Index, and the companies in the NASDAQ Industrial Index. 26 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 27 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. See Item 1A Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. U.S. securities laws require that when we publish any non-GAAP measures, we disclose the reason for using these non-GAAP measures and provide reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. We discuss why we consider it useful to present these non-GAAP measures and the material risks and limitations of these measures, as well as a reconciliation of these non- GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure below at Results of Operations Use of Non-GAAP Measures below. Overview We are a provider of financial technology, or fintech, products and services to unbanked and underbanked individuals and small businesses, predominantly in South Africa. We have developed and own most of our payment technologies, and where possible, we utilize this technology to provide financial and value-added services to our customers by including them in the formal financial system. Sources of Revenue We generate our revenues by charging transaction fees to merchants, financial service providers, utility providers, bill issuers and consumers; by selling pinned airtime to merchants; by providing loans to merchants and consumers, and insurance products to consumers and by selling hardware, licensing software and providing related technology services to merchants. We act as a service provider whereby we own and operate the technology and apply it in a system ourselves, charging one-time and ongoing fees for the use of the system either on a fixed or ad valorem basis. For instance, through the acquisition of Connect, we now provide cash management and payment services to merchant customers through a digital vault (safe asset) which is located at the customers premises and generate processing revenue from the provision of these services. We also offer merchant customers access to platforms through which we (a) generate revenue from the sale of prepaid airtime and (b) generate fees from distribution of VAS, including prepaid airtime, prepaid electricity, gaming voucher, and other services, to users of our platforms. We also generate fees from debit and credit card transaction processing and interest revenue from qualifying merchant customers who are able to access short-term loans. The revenue and costs associated with these services and sales are included in our merchant operating segment. We provide consumers with bank accounts from which we generate a monthly fee and also charge fees on an ad valorem basis for goods and services purchased. Usage of our bank accounts also provides our customers with access to short-term loans and life insurance products. We also generate fees from consumers utilizing our ATM network. The revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our consumer operating segment. Developments during Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2023 represents a milestone for Lesaka. We made significant progress in our turnaround strategy and delivered continued growth for Lesaka despite challenging macroeconomic and socio-political conditions. We reported a net loss attributable to us of $35.1 million (ZAR 629.2 million) during fiscal 2023 compared with a net loss of $43.9 million (ZAR 666.8 million) during fiscal 2022. Our Consumer Division (Consumer) returned to profitability and contributed three sequential quarters of positive Segment Adjusted EBITDA, with our Merchant Division (Merchant) continuing to display strong growth and Segment Adjusted EBITDA profitability during the entire fiscal year. We delivered Group Adjusted EBITDA profit, a non-GAAP measure, of ZAR 497.6 million ($27.7 million) in fiscal 2023, compared with a Group Adjusted EBITDA loss of ZAR 267.7 million ($17.6 million) in fiscal 2022, demonstrating successful execution against a carefully considered transformation and growth strategy. Group Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure, refer to reconciliation below at Results of Operations Use of Non-GAAP Measures. Our mission at Lesaka is to enable merchants to compete and grow, and to improve the lives of South Africas grant beneficiaries by providing access to innovative financial technology and value creating solutions. We achieve this through our vision to build and operate the leading full-service fintech platform in Southern Africa, offering cash management, payment processing, Value Added Services (VAS), capital and financial services to merchants and underserved consumers. 28 Merchant Division outperformance Our Merchant Division has shown significant growth in our offering to MSME, which is supported by the robust secular trends underpinning financial inclusion, cash management and digitalization for MSMEs. Performance in our Merchant division has been driven by: Kazang, which is our VAS and Supplier Payments Business, has seen strong adoption by MSMEs in the informal sector, with a 47% year-on-year growth in the number of devices deployed. We had approximately 75,000 devices deployed as of June 30, 2023, compared to approximately 51,000 devices one year ago; We provide card acquiring solutions in the informal sector via Kazang Pay and in the formal sector we provide this service through Card Connect. Card-enabled POS devices increased to approximately 44,900 as of June 30, 2023, compared to approximately 22,650 a year ago, a growth of 98% in deployed devices; We provide merchants access to credit through Capital Connect and Kazang Pay Advance. We continue to see strong demand for this merchant credit offering and disbursed just over ZAR 1.0 billion during the year, compared to approximately ZAR 0.6 billion in the comparable period last year, representing growth of 62%. Our automated cash management and payments business, Cash Connect, effectively puts the bank in approximately 4,390 merchants stores (compared to approximately 4,080 merchants stores a year ago). Cash Connect is a provider of robust cash vaults in the formal sector, and is building a presence in the informal sector. Cash Connect enables our merchant customer base to significantly mitigate their operational risks pertaining to cash management and security. Consumer Division contributing sequential positive Segment Adjusted EBITDA and poised for growth Over the past four quarters we have consistently referenced the three levers underpinning our strategy of returning the Consumer Division to profitability - growing active EasyPay Everywhere (EPE) account numbers, increasing average revenue per user (ARPU) through cross-selling and cost optimization. The progress on our three key initiatives is as follows: Driving customer acquisition Our total active EPE transactional account base stood at approximately 1.3 million at the end of June 2023, of which approximately 1.1 million (or approximately 85%) are permanent grant recipients. The balance comprises Social Relief of Distress (SRD) grant recipients, which was introduced during the COVID pandemic and extended in calendar 2023. As of the end of June 2023, we increased our permanent grant account base by 2% on a net basis and our total grant base by 10% on a net basis, compared to the prior year. The net growth of our permanent grant recipient base has been slower than anticipated as we continue to transition the business into a sales driven, customer- centric, financial services provider. Our priority is to grow our permanent grant recipient customers base, where we can build deeper relationships by offering other products such as insurance and lending. We do not offer the same breadth of service to the SRD grant base due to the temporary nature of the grant. We continue to focus our efforts on designing and implementing products and services that we believe will enhance the lives of these people and their families. This in turn should improve account activation and utilization. Progress on cross selling EasyPay Loans o We originated approximately 850,000 loans in fiscal 2023 with our net consumer loan book increasing 19% to ZAR 415 million as of June 30, 2023, compared to ZAR 349 million as of June 30, 2022. The loan conversion rate continues to improve following the implementation of a number of targeted loan campaigns over the last quarter. The portfolio loss ratio, calculated as the loans written off during the period as a percentage of the total loan book, remains encouragingly low at approximately 6% per annum. EasyPay Insurance o Our insurance product sales continues to grow and is a material contributor to the improvement in our overall ARPU. We have been able to improve customer penetration to approximately 30% of our active permanent grant account base as of June 30, 2023, compared to just below 20% as of June 30, 2022. Over 124,700 new policies were written during fiscal 2023, compared to approximately 27,600 in the comparable period in fiscal 2022. The total number of active policies has grown by 36% to approximately 335,000 policies as of June 30, 2023, compared to June 30, 2022. o We have experienced a reduction in the number of insurance claims incurred following the cancellation of certain offerings and also as a result of reduction in the number of pandemic -related deaths. 29 ARPU o ARPU for our permanent client base has increased to approximately ZAR 80 for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, from approximately ZAR 74 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. Cost optimization o Successful execution of the cost optimization initiatives has contributed to our achievement of three consecutive quarters of positive Segment Adjusted EBITDA. These initiatives included branch rationalizations, deployment of our ATMs in third party merchant stores and reductions in our cash management expenditures. We continue to evaluate and implement further optimization measures, particularly around our branch infrastructure and ATM network, as we grow our Consumer Division. Strengthening our relationships with key stakeholders We continue to build our relationship with the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) through proactive engagement at a local, provincial, and national level. We have also made good progress in enhancing our relationships with our shareholders, regulators, suppliers and other key participants across our industry. Economic Environment and Impact of loadshedding The trading environment remains challenging in South Africa. High interest rates, inflation and unemployment are being compounded by daily power cuts (known as load-shedding in South Africa). The power disruptions adversely impact our customers, especially in our Merchant Division, where they lose valuable trading hours if they do not have access to alternative power supplies and back-up facilities to process electronic payments and value-added services. The negative impact is, however, to some extent mitigated as our customer base is geographically diversified, and the rotational nature of load-shedding results in localized power cuts over shorter time periods. According to data published by EskomSePush, our customers experienced significantly higher level of load-shedding during the first six months of calendar 2023 of just over five hours, on average, per day, compared with just over two hours, on average, per day during calendar 2022. Specifically, these power cuts intensified during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, frequently exceeding 10 hours per day. This deterioration has severely impacted our merchants ability to make up lost trading hours and recharge back up power supplies where available. Notwithstanding the challenging operating environment our teams have delivered growth in the Merchant and Consumer Divisions, demonstrating the resilience of our business model which is firmly underpinned by the relevance and value of our offering to our target market. Improvement in our Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) rating to level 5 B-BBEE is key strategic priority for us. Achievement of B-BBEE objectives is measured by a scorecard which establishes a weighting for various elements. Scorecards are independently reviewed by accredited BEE verification agencies which issue a certificate that presents an entitys BEE Contributor Status Level, with level 1 being the highest and no rating (a level below level 8) as the lowest. During fiscal 2023, we made significant progress in terms of improving our empowerment credentials and are pleased to report that our independently verified B-BBEE rating has improved to a level 5 rating from a level 8 rating. Together with the various other B-BBEE initiatives and programmes being rolled out, including our Youth Employment Services (YES) programme, we aim to achieve a level 4 rating by the end of fiscal year 2024. Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Under the South African Competition Tribunals approval of the Connect acquisition, we are required to establish an ESOP within 36 months of the implementation of the transaction that complies with certain design principles. This will benefit the workers of the merged entity and result in them receiving a shareholding in our company equal in value to at least 3% of the issued shares in our company as of April 14, 2022. If within 24 months of the implementation date of the transaction, we generate a positive net profit for three consecutive quarters, the ESOP shall increase to 5% of the issued shares in our company as of April 14, 2022. We expect that the majority of our South African workforce will be eligible to participate in the ESOP. We expect that participating employees will be required to earn the shares awarded over a period of time, currently estimated at approximately seven years, but this vesting period, as well as other terms of ESOP, have not been finalized as of the date of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K and will be subject to shareholder approval. We currently expect to issue up to 5% of our issued share capital to the ESOP and we believe that this transaction will be a qualifying transaction under South Africas Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, and is a key strategic imperative for us in achieving a target BBEE level 4 rating by 30 June 2024. We are pleased to report that we progressed well on this initiative and are confident that we will achieve this condition of the Connect acquisition within the time frames agreed. 30 Critical Accounting Policies Our audited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty, the determination of estimates requires managements judgment based on a variety of assumptions and other determinants such as historical experience, current and expected market conditions and certain scientific evaluation techniques. Management believes that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and the impact of these policies on the understandi ng of the results of our operations and financial condition. Business Combinations and the Recoverability of Goodwill A significant component of our growth strategy is to acquire and integrate businesses that complement our existing operations. The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair value at the date of purchase. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, we use various recognized valuation methods, including present value modeling. Further, we make assumptions using certain valuation techniques, including discount rates and timing of future cash flows. We review the carrying value of goodwill annually or more frequently if circumstances indicating impairment have occurred. In performing this review, we are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill that is implied from a valuation of the reporting unit to which the goodwill has been allocated after deducting the fair values of all the identifiable assets and liabilities that form part of the reporting unit. The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In determining the fair value of reporting units for fiscal 2023 and 2022, we considered entity-specific growth rates, future expected cash flows to be used in our discounted cash flow model, and the weighted-average cost of capital applicable to peer and industry comparables of the reporting units. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. In addition, we make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. The results of our impairment tests during fiscal 2023 indicated that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values, with the exception of the $7.0 million of goodwill impaired during fiscal 2023, as discussed in Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements. The results of our impairment tests during fiscal 2022 indicated that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and so did not require impairment. Intangible Assets Acquired Through Acquisitions The fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired through acquisitions were determined by management using the purchase method of accounting. We completed the acquisition of Connect during fiscal 2022 where we identified and recognized intangible assets. We used the relief from royalty method to value identified brands and the multi-period excess earnings method to value the integrated platform and identified customer relationships. We have used the relief from royalty method, the multi-period excess earnings method, the income approach and the cost approach to value other historic acquisition-related intangible assets. In so doing, we made assumptions regarding expected future revenues and expenses to develop the underlying forecasts, applied contributory asset charges, discount rates, exchange rates, cash tax charges and useful lives. The valuations were based on information available at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that were deemed reasonable by us. No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected. For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows. To the extent actual cash flows vary, revisions to the useful life or impairment of intangible assets may be necessary. Management assess the useful life of the acquired intangible assets upon initial recognition and revisions to the useful life or impairment of these intangible assets may be necessary in the future. Revenue recognition principal versus agent considerations We generate revenue from the provision of transaction-processing services through our various platforms and service offerings. We use these platforms to (a) sell prepaid airtime and (b) distribute VAS, including prepaid airtime, prepaid electricity, gaming voucher, and other services, to users of our platforms. The determination of whether we act as a principal or as an agent when providing these services requires a significant amount of judgement and is based on whether (i) we are primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified goods or service, (ii) we have inventory risk before the specified good or service has been transferred to a customer and (iii) we have discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. When we are the principal in a transaction, such as when we purchase (and thus control and assume inventory risk) prepaid airtime before selling it to customers utilizing our platform, revenue is reported on a gross basis. When we are an agent in a transaction, such as when we distribute VAS on behalf of our customers, and do not control the good or service to be provided, revenue is recognized based on the amount that we are contractually entitled to receive for performing the distribution service on behalf of our customers using our platform. 31 Valuation of investment in Cell C We have elected to measure our investment in Cell C, an unlisted equity security, at fair value using the fair value option. Changes in the fair value of this equity security are recognized in the caption change in fair value of equity securities in our audited consolidated statements of operations. The tax impact related to the change in fair value of equity securities is included in income tax expense in our audited consolidated statements of operation. The determination of the fair value of this equity security requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Refer to Note 6 of our audited consolidated financial statements regarding the valuation inputs and sensitivity related to our investment in Cell C. We used a discounted cash flow model to determine the fair value of our investment in Cell C as of June 30, 2023 and 2022, and valued Cell C at $0.0 (zero) as of each of June 30, 2023 and 2022. We utilized the latest approved business plan provided by Cell C management for the period ended December 31, 2025, for the June 30, 2023 and 2022 valuations, and the following key valuation inputs were used: Weighted Average Cost of Capital: Between 20% and 31% over the period of the forecast Long-term growth rate: 4.5% (3% as of June 30, 2022) Marketability discount: 20% (10% as of June 30, 2022) Minority discount: 24% (15% as of June 30, 2022) Net adjusted external debt - June 30, 2023: (1) ZAR 8.1 billion ($0.4 billion), no lease liabilities included Net adjusted external debt - June 30, 2022: (2) ZAR 13.5 billion ($0.8 billion), no lease liabilities included (1) translated from ZAR to U.S. dollars at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2023. (2) translated from ZAR to U.S. dollars at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2022. We believe the Cell C business plan is reasonable based on the current performance and the expected changes in the business model. Refer to the sensitivity analysis included in Note 6 to our audited consolidated financial statements related to our valuation of Cell C as of June 30, 2023. Recoverability of equity securities and equity-accounted investments We review our equity securities and equity-accounted investments for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be recoverable. In performing this review, we are required to estimate the fair value of our equity-accounted investments and other equity securities. The determination of the fair value of these investments requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. Other equity securities include our investments in MobiKwik and CPS. These equity securities do not have readily determinable fair values and therefore we have elected to measure these investments at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. If we identify an impairment indicator related to these equity securities, we are required to assess the carrying value of these equity securities against their fair value. We did not identify any impairment indicators during each of fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, and therefore did not recognize any impairment losses related to these equity securities during those years. The determination of the fair value of an investment requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. We are required to base our estimates on assumptions which we believe to be reasonable, but these assumptions may be unpredictable and inherently uncertain. The Company did not identify any observable transactions during either of the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, and therefore there was no change in the fair value of MobiKwik during the year. During the year ended June 30, 2021, MobiKwik entered into a number of separate agreements with new shareholders to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional shares. Specifically, we used the following transactions as the basis for our fair value adjustments to our investment in MobiKwik during the year ended June 30, 2021: (i) in early November 2020, $135.54 per share; (ii) in March 2021, $170.33 per share; and (iii) in June 2021, $245.50 per share. We considered each of these transactions to be an observable price change in an orderly transaction for similar or identical equity securities issued by MobiKwik. Accordingly, the carrying value of our investment in MobiKwik increased from $27.0 million as of June 30, 2020, to $76.3 million as of June 30, 2021. The change in the fair value of MobiKwik for the year ended June 30, 2021, of $49.3 million, is included in the caption Change in fair value of equity securities in our audited consolidated statement of operations for the year ended June 30, 2021. We did not identify any impairment indicators during fiscal 2022 and therefore did not recognize any impairment losses related to our equity-accounted investments during that year. We performed impairment assessments during fiscal 2023 and 2021, for our investment in Finbond Group Limited (Finbond) following the identification of certain impairment indicators. The results of our impairment tests during fiscal 2023 and 2021, resulted in impairments of $1.1 million and $21.1 million, respectively, related to our equity-accounted investments. These impairments are discussed in Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 32 For fiscal 2023, in determining the fair value of Finbond, as it is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, its market price as of the impairment assessment dates, adjusted for a liquidity discount of 25%. For fiscal 2021, in determining the fair value of certain of our equity-accounted investments, we have considered (i) for Finbond specifically, its market price as of the impairment assessment date, adjusted for a liquidity discount of 15%, and (ii) the net asset value of the equity-accounted investment being assessed as a proxy of fair value because reasonable cash flow forecasts were not available. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. The fair value of our investment in Finbond is sensitive to movements in its market price, which is quoted in ZAR, because we use the market price as the basis of our valuation. Deferred Taxation We estimate our tax liability through the calculations done for the determination of our current tax liability, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differ ences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which are disclosed on our balance sheet. Management then has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the foreseeable future. A valuation allowance is created if it is determined that a deferred tax asset will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Any change to the valuation allowance would be charged or credited to income in the period such determination is made. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and practicable tax planning strategies are considered. During fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively we recorded a net decrease of $8.0 million and $1.7 million, to our valuation allowance, and during fiscal 2021 we recorded a net increase of $1.5 million. As of June 30, 2023 and 2022, the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets was $109.1 million and $117.1 million, respectively. Stock-based Compensation Management is required to make estimates and assumptions related to our valuation and recording of stock-based compensation charges under current accounting standards. These standards require all share-based compensation to employees to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their respective grant date fair values over the requisite service periods and also requires an estimation of forfeitures when calculating compensation expense. We utilize the Cox Ross Rubinstein binomial model to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. We have also utilized a bespoke adjusted Monte Carlo simulation discounted cash flow model to measure the fair value of restricted stock with market conditions granted to employees and directors. The stock-based compensation cost related to these valuations has been recognized on a straight-line basis. These valuation models require estimates of a number of key valuation inputs including expected volatility, expected dividend yield, expected term and risk-free interest rate. Our management has estimated forfeitures based on historic employee behavior under similar compensation plans. The fair value of stock options is affected by the assumptions selected. The fair value calculation is especially sensitive to our valuation assumption with respect to expected volatility. For instance, a 5% increase (to 55%) or decrease (to 45%) in the expected volatility used (of 50%) to value stock options granted in February 2022, would result in a charge that was 9% higher (if 55% were used) or 9% lower (if 45% were used). Net stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations was $7.3 million, $3.0 million and $0.3 million for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 33 Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable related to our Merchant and Consumer segments with respect to sales or rental of hardware, support and maintenance services provided; or sale of licenses to customers; or the provision of transaction processing services to our customers. Our policy is to regularly review the aging of outstanding amounts due from customers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of the amounts outstanding. Management considers factors including period outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers, past payment history and the results of discussions by our credit department (and in some cases including our sales and finance teams) with the customer. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. Additional provisions may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. Judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these receivables, including ongoing evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. Lending Merchant lending We maintain an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable related to our Merchant services segment with respect to short- term loans to qualifying merchant customers. Our policy is to regularly review the ageing of outstanding amounts due from these merchants and an allowance is created for the full amount outstanding if the customer is in arrears for more than 15 days. We write off loans and related interest and fees when it is evident that reasonable recovery procedures, including where deemed necessary, formal legal action, have failed. Our risk management procedures include adhering to our proprietary lending criteria which uses an online-system loan application process, obtaining necessary customer transaction-history data and credit bureau checks. We consider these procedures to be appropriate because it takes into account a variety of factors such as the customers credit capacity and customer-specific risk factors when originating a loan. Consumer microlending We maintain an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable related to our Consumer services segment with respect to short- term loans to qualifying customers. Our policy is to regularly review the ageing of outstanding amounts due from borrowers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of finance loans receivable. We write off microlending loans and related service fees if a borrower is in arrears with repayments for more than three months or dies. Credit bureau checks as well as an affordability test are conducted as part of the origination process, both of which being in line with local regulations. We consider this policy to be appropriate because the affordability test we perform takes into account a variety of factors such as other debts and total expenditures on normal household and lifestyle expenses. Additional allowances may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorates in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these finance loan receivables, including ongoing evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements adopted Refer to Note 2 of our audited consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2023 Refer to Note 2 of our audited consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2023, including the expected dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 34 Currency Exchange Rate Information Actual exchange rates The actual exchange rates for and at the end of the periods presented were as follows: Table 1 June 30, 2023 2022 2021 ZAR : $ average exchange rate 17.7641 15.2154 15.4146 Highest ZAR : $ rate during period 19.7558 16.2968 17.6866 Lowest ZAR : $ rate during period 16.2034 14.1630 13.4327 Rate at end of period 18.8376 16.2903 14.3010 Translation Exchange Rates We are required to translate our results of operations from ZAR to U.S. dollars on a monthly basis. Thus, the average rates used to translate this data for the years ended June 30, 2023, 2022 and 2021, vary slightly from the averages shown in the table above. The translation rates we use in presenting our results of operations are the rates shown in the following table: Table 2 June 30, 2023 2022 2021 Income and expense items: $1 = ZAR 17.9400 15.1978 15.7162 Balance sheet items: $1 = ZAR 18.8376 16.2903 14.3010 35 Results of operations The discussion of our consolidated overall results of operations is based on amounts as reflected in our audited consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We analyze our results of operations both in U.S. dollars, as presented in the audited consolidated financial statements, and supplementally in ZAR, because ZAR is the functional currency of the entities which contribute the majority of our results and is the currency in which the majority of our transactions are initially incurred and measured. Presentation of our reported results in ZAR is a non-GAAP measure. Due to the significant impact of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and ZAR on our reported results and because we use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency, we believe that the supplemental presentation of our results of operations in ZAR is useful to investors to understand the changes in the underlying trends of our business. Our operating segment revenue presented in Results of operations by operating segment represents total revenue per operating segment before intercompany eliminations. A reconciliation between total operating segment revenue and revenue, as well as the reconciliation because our segment performance measure and net loss before tax (benefits) expense, is presented in our audited consolidated financial statements in Note 21 to those statements. Our chief operating decision maker is our Group Chief Executive Officer and he evaluates segment performance based on segment earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted for items mentioned in the next sentence (Segment Adjusted EBITDA) for each operating segment. We do not allocate once-off items (as defined below), stock-based compensation charges, depreciation and amortization, impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, certain lease charges (Lease adjustments), other items (including gains or losses on disposal of investments, fair value adjustments to equity securities, fair value adjustments to currency options), interest income, interest expense, income tax expense or loss from equity-accounted investments to our reportable segments. Once-off items represents non-recurring expense items, including costs related to acquisitions and transactions consummated or ultimately not pursued. The Lease adjustments reflect lease charges and the Stock-based compensation adjustments reflect stock-based compensation expense and are both excluded from the calculation of Segment Adjusted EBITDA and are therefore reported as reconciling items to reconcile the reportable segments Segment Adjusted EBITDA to our loss before income tax expense. Group Adjusted EBITDA represents Segment Adjusted EBITDA after deducting group costs. Refer also Results of OperationsUse of Non-GAAP Measures below. Fiscal 2023 includes Connect for the entire fiscal year and fiscal 2022 includes consolidation of Connect from April 14, 2022. Refer also to Note 3 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this transaction. We analyze our business and operations in terms of two inter-related but independent operating segments: (1) Merchant Division and (2) Consumer Division. In addition, corporate activities that are impracticable to allocate directly to the operating segments, as well as any inter-segment eliminations, are included in Group costs. Inter-segment revenue eliminations are included in Corporate/ Eliminations. Fiscal 2023 Compared to Fiscal 2022 The following factors had a significant influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2023 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Higher revenue: Our revenues increased by 180.0% in ZAR, primarily due to the contribution from Connect in Merchant and an increase in account fees and insurance revenues in Consumer; Lower operating losses: Operating losses decreased, delivering an improvement of 55% in ZAR compared with the prior period primarily due to the contribution from Connect, strong hardware sales, and the implementation of various cost reduction initiatives in Consumer, which was partially offset by an increase in acquisition related intangible asset amortization; Higher net interest charge: The net interest charge increased to ZAR 299.9 million from ZAR 56.8 million due to the additional borrowings incurred in order to fund the acquisition of Connect as well as the debt acquired within the Connect business itself; Significant transaction costs: We expensed $6.0 million of transaction costs related to the Connect acquisition in fiscal 2022; and Foreign exchange movements: The U.S. dollar was 18.0% stronger against the ZAR during fiscal 2023, which impacted our reported results. 36 Consolidated overall results of operations This discussion is based on the amounts prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: Table 3 In U.S. Dollars Year ended June 30, 2023 2022 $ % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 527,971 222,609 137% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 417,544 168,317 148% Selling, general and administration 95,050 74,993 27% Depreciation and amortization 23,685 7,575 213% Impairment loss 7,039 - nm Reorganization costs - 5,894 nm Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition - 6,025 nm Operating loss (15,347) (40,195) (62%) Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options - 3,691 nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 205 376 (45%) Gain on disposal of equity securities - 720 nm Interest income 1,853 2,089 (11%) Interest expense 18,567 5,829 219% Loss before income tax (benefit) expense (32,266) (39,900) (19%) Income tax (benefit) expense (2,309) 327 nm Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (29,957) (40,227) (26%) Loss from equity-accounted investments (5,117) (3,649) 40% Net loss attributable to us (35,074) (43,876) (20%) Table 4 In South African Rand Year ended June 30, 2023 2022 ZAR % ZAR 000 ZAR 000 change Revenue 9,471,800 3,383,166 180% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 7,490,739 2,558,047 193% Selling, general and administration 1,705,196 1,139,728 50% Depreciation and amortization 424,909 115,123 269% Impairment loss 126,280 - nm Reorganization costs - 89,576 nm Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition - 91,567 nm Operating loss (275,324) (610,875) (55%) Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options - 56,095 nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 3,678 5,714 (36%) Gain on disposal of equity securities - 10,942 nm Interest income 33,243 31,748 5% Interest expense 333,092 88,587 276% Loss before income tax (benefit) expense (578,851) (606,391) (5%) Income tax (benefit) expense (41,423) 4,970 nm Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (537,428) (611,361) (12%) Loss from equity-accounted investments (91,799) (55,457) 66% Net loss attributable to us (629,227) (666,818) (6%) Revenue increased by $305.4 million (ZAR 6.1 billion), or 137.2% (in ZAR, 180.0%), primarily due to the inclusion of Connect for the entire fiscal year, which has substantial low margin prepaid airtime sales in addition to its core processing revenue and an increase in account fees and insurance revenues. Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support increased by $249.2 million (ZAR 4.9 billion), or 148.1% (in ZAR, 192.8%), primarily due to the inclusion of Connect, which were partially offset by the benefits of various cost reduction initiatives in Consumer and lower insurance-related claims. 37 Selling, general and administration expenses increased by $20.1 million (ZAR 0.6 billion), or 26.7% (in ZAR, 49.6%), primarily due to higher employee-related expenses related to the expansion of our senior management team, the year-over-year impact of inflationary increases on employee-related expenses and the inclusion of expenses related to Connects operations, which were partially offset by the benefits of various cost reduction initiatives in Consumer. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $16.1 million (ZAR 0.3 billion), or 212.7% (in ZAR, 269.1%), due to the inclusion of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization related to intangible assets identified pursuant to the Connect acquisition, as well as the inclusion of depreciation expense related to Connects property, plant and equipment. During fiscal 2023, we recorded an impairment loss of $7.0 million related to the impairment of our hardware/ software supply business units allocated goodwill. Refer to Note 10 of our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these impairment losses. We embarked on a retrenchment process on January 10, 2022, and incurred reorganization expenses of $5.9 million during fiscal 2022. Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition in fiscal 2022 includes fees paid to external service providers associated with the contract drafting and negotiations; corporate finance advisory services; legal, financial and tax due diligence activities performed; warranty and indemnity insurance related to the transaction; and other advisory services procured; as well as our portion of the fees paid to competition authorities related to the regulatory filings made in various jurisdictions. Our operating loss margin in fiscal 2023 and 2022 was (2.9%) and (18.1%), respectively. We discuss the components of operating loss margin under Results of operations by operating segment. We did not record any changes in the fair value of equity interests in MobiKwik and Cell C during fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. We continue to carry our investment in Cell C at $0 (zero). Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for the methodology and inputs used in the fair value calculation for MobiKwik and Note 6 for the methodology and inputs used in the fair value calculation for Cell C. Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options represents the realized gain related to foreign exchange option contracts entered into in November 2021 in order to manage the risk of currency volatility and to fix the USD amount to be utilized for part of the Connect purchase consideration settlement. The foreign exchange option contracts matured on February 24, 2022. Refer to Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these currency options. We recorded a net loss of $0.2 million comprising a loss of $0.4 million related to the disposal of a minor portion of our investment in Finbond and a $0.25 million gain related to the disposal of our entire interest in Carbon during fiscal 2023. We recorded a loss of $0.4 million related to the disposal of a minor portion of our investment in Finbond during fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these disposals. We recorded a gain of $0.7 million related to the disposal of our entire interest in an equity security during fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this gain. Interest on surplus cash decreased to $1.9 million (ZAR 33.2 million) from $2.1 million (ZAR 31.7 million), primarily due to the inclusion of Connect, which was partially offset by lower overall surplus cash balances following the acquisition of Connect. Interest expense increased to $18.6 million (ZAR 333.1 million) from $5.8 million (ZAR 88.6 million), primarily as a result of additional interest expense incurred related to borrowings obtained to partially fund the acquisition of Connect, interest expenses incurred in Connect to fund our cash management, digitization and VAS offerings, and a higher utilization of our facilities to fund our ATMs, which was also coupled with an increase in base interest rates. Fiscal 2023 tax benefit was $(2.3) million (ZAR (41.4) million) compared to a tax expense of $0.3 million (ZAR 5.0 million) in fiscal 2022. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2023 was impacted by a reduction in the enacted South African corporate income tax rate from 28% to 27% from January 2023 (but backdated to July 1, 2022), the tax expense recorded by our profitable South African operations, a deferred tax benefit related to acquisition-related intangible asset amortization, non-deductible expenses, a deferred tax benefit related to an expense paid by Connect before we acquired the business and which subsequently has been determined to be deductible for tax purposes, the on-going losses incurred by certain of our South African businesses and the associated valuation allowances created related to the deferred tax assets recognized regarding net operating losses incurred by these entities. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was impacted by the tax expense recorded by our profitable South African operations, a deferred tax benefit related to acquisition-related intangible asset amortization, non-deductible expenses (including transaction expenses related to the acquisition of Connect), the on-going losses incurred by certain of our South African businesses and the associated valuation allowances created related to the deferred tax assets recognized regarding net operating losses incurred by these entities. 38 Finbond is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and reports its six-month results during our first half and its annual results during our fourth quarter. We recorded impairment losses related to our investment in Finbond in fiscal 2023 following on-going losses reported by Finbond and its lower listed share price. Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the impairments. The table below presents the relative loss from our equity accounted investments: Table 5 Year ended June 30, 2023 2022 $ % $ 000 $ 000 change Finbond (5,206) (3,665) 42% Share of net (loss) income (4,096) (3,665) 12% Impairment (1,110) - nm Other 89 16 456% Share of net income (loss) 89 16 456% Total loss from equity-accounted investment (5,117) (3,649) 40% Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating (loss) income are illustrated below: Table 6 In U.S. Dollars Year ended June 30, 2023 % of 2022 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Consolidated revenue: Merchant 463,701 88% 156,689 70% 196% Consumer 62,801 12% 65,932 30% (5%) Subtotal: Operating segments 526,502 100% 222,621 100% 137% Not allocated to operating segments 1,469 - - - nm Corporate/Eliminations - - (12) - nm Total consolidated revenue 527,971 100% 222,609 100% 137% Group Adjusted EBITDA: Merchant 33,531 121% 12,646 (72%) 165% Consumer (1) 3,314 12% (21,674) 123% nm Group costs (9,109) (33%) (8,587) 49% 6% Group Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) (2) 27,736 100% (17,615) 100% nm (1) Consumer Segment Adjustment EBITDA for fiscal 2022 includes reorganization cost of $5.9 million. (2) Group Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure, refer to reconciliation below at Results of OperationsUse of Non- GAAP Measures. 39 Table 7 In South African Rand Year ended June 30, 2023 % of 2022 % of % Operating Segment ZAR 000 total ZAR 000 total change Consolidated revenue: Merchant 8,318,796 88% 2,381,323 70% 249% Consumer 1,126,650 12% 1,002,021 30% 12% Subtotal: Operating segments 9,445,446 100% 3,383,344 100% 179% Not allocated to operating segments 26,354 - - - nm Corporate/Eliminations - - (178) - nm Total consolidated revenue 9,471,800 100% 3,383,166 100% 180% Group Adjusted EBITDA: Merchant 601,546 121% 192,197 (72%) 213% Consumer (1) 59,453 12% (329,403) 123% nm Group costs (163,415) (33%) (130,503) 49% 25% Group Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) (2) 497,584 100% (267,709) 100% nm (1) Consumer Segment Adjustment EBITDA for fiscal 2022 includes reorganization cost of ZAR 89.6 million. (2) Group Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure, refer to reconciliation below at Results of OperationsUse of Non- GAAP Measures. Merchant Segment revenue increased due to the contribution from Connect for the full fiscal year compared with only two and a half months in fiscal 2022. This increase was partially offset by lower hardware sales revenue given the lumpy nature of bulk sales. The increase in Segment Adjusted EBITDA is also due to the inclusion of Connect, which was partially offset by lower hardware sales. Connect records a significant proportion of its airtime sales in revenue and cost of sales, while only earning a relatively small margin. This significantly depresses the Segment Adjusted EBITDA margins shown by the business. Our Segment Adjusted EBITDA (loss) margin (calculated as Segment Adjusted EBITDA (loss) divided by revenue) in fiscal 2023 and 2022 was 7.2% and 8.1%, respectively. Consumer Segment revenue increased primarily due to higher insurance revenues and higher account holder fees, though this was partially offset by lower ATM transaction fees. We embarked on a retrenchment process during the third quarter of fiscal 2022 and recorded an expense of $5.9 million which is included in Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss. The cost reduction initiatives we initiated in fiscal 2022 delivered a significant reduction in Consumers operating expenses which resulted in a significantly lower Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss compared with fiscal 2022. Specifically, expenses associated with operating a mobile distribution network were discontinued in early fiscal 2022, and we have streamlined our fixed distribution network through reductions in certain expenses including employee-related costs, security, guarding and premises costs. In June 2022 we recalibrated our allowance for doubtful microlending finance loans receivable from 10% of the lending book outstanding to 6.5% of the lending book, which resulted in a release from the allowance in fiscal 2022. Our Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss margin in fiscal 2023 and 2022 was 5.3% and (32.9%), respectively. After adjusting for the reorganization charge our fiscal 2022 Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss margin was (23.9%). Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss margin before the reorganization charge is a non-GAAP measure. We believe that the presentation of our Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss margin before the reorganization charge is useful to investors to understand the improvement in the operating performance in Consumer, before the reorganization charge, in fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022. Group costs Our group costs primarily include employee related costs in relation to employees specifically hired for group roles and costs related directly to managing the US-listed entity; expenditures related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; non- employee directors fees; legal fees; group and US-listed related audit fees; and directors and officers insurance premiums. Our group costs for fiscal 2023 increased compared with the prior period due to higher employee costs and an increase in directors and officers insurance premiums. 40 Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 The following factors had a significant influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2022 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Higher revenue: Our revenues increased by 64.6% in ZAR, primarily due to the contribution from Connect, an increase in hardware sales, an increase in merchant transaction processing fees, and a moderate increase in lending and insurance revenues; Lower operating losses: Operating losses decreased, delivering an improvement of 28% in ZAR compared with the prior period primarily due to the positive contribution from Connect, the closure of the loss-making IPG operations and the implementation of various cost reduction initiatives in our Consumer business, which was partially offset by an increase in acquisition related intangible asset amortization and transaction costs. During fiscal 2022, we recorded a reorganization charge of $5.9 million related to the retrenchment process we commenced in January 2022; Significant transaction costs: We expensed $6.0 million of transaction costs related to the Connect acquisition in fiscal 2022; and Foreign exchange movements: The U.S. dollar was 3.3% stronger against the ZAR during fiscal 2022, which impacted our reported results. The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: Table 8 In U.S. Dollars Year ended June 30, 2022 2021 $ % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 222,609 130,786 70% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 168,317 96,248 75% Selling, general and administration 74,993 84,063 (11%) Depreciation and amortization 7,575 4,347 74% Reorganization costs 5,894 - nm Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition 6,025 - nm Operating loss (40,195) (53,872) (25%) Change in fair value of equity securities - 49,304 nm Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options 3,691 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 376 13 2,792% Gain on disposal of equity securities 720 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment - Bank Frick - 472 nm Interest income 2,089 2,416 (14%) Interest expense 5,829 2,982 95% Loss before income tax expense (39,900) (5,619) 610% Income tax expense 327 7,560 (96%) Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (40,227) (13,179) 205% Loss from equity-accounted investments (3,649) (24,878) (85%) Net loss attributable to us (43,876) (38,057) 15% 41 Table 9 In South African Rand (US GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2022 2021 ZAR % ZAR 000 ZAR 000 change Revenue 3,383,166 2,055,459 65% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 2,558,047 1,512,653 69% Selling, general and administration 1,139,728 1,321,151 (14%) Depreciation and amortization 115,123 68,318 69% Reorganization costs 89,576 - nm Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition 91,567 - nm Operating loss (610,875) (846,663) (28%) Change in fair value of equity securities - 774,872 nm Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options 56,095 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 5,714 204 2,701% Gain on disposal of equity securities 10,942 - nm Loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment - Bank Frick - 7,418 nm Interest income 31,748 37,970 (16%) Interest expense 88,587 46,866 89% Loss before income tax expense (606,391) (88,309) 587% Income tax expense 4,970 118,814 (96%) Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (611,361) (207,123) 195% Loss from equity-accounted investments (55,457) (390,988) (86%) Net loss attributable to us (666,818) (598,111) 11% Revenue increased by $91.8 million (ZAR 1.3 billion), or 70.2% (in ZAR, 64.6%), primarily due to the inclusion of Connect, which has substantial low margin prepaid airtime sales in addition to its core processing revenue, an increase in hardware sales, an increase in merchant transaction processing fees, and moderate increases in lending and insurance revenues. Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support increased by $72.1 million (ZAR 1.0 billion), or 74.9% (in ZAR, 69.1%), primarily due to the inclusion of Connect, an increase in the cost of hardware sales, higher costs related to transaction fees and an increase in insurance-related claims experience, which were partially offset by the benefits of various cost reduction initiatives in our Consumer business. Selling, general and administration expenses decreased by $9.1 million (ZAR 0.2 billion), or 10.8% (in ZAR, 13.7%), primarily due to lower IPG-related expenses incurred following its closure, some benefits from our cost reduction initiatives, as well as a recalibration, in June 2022, of our allowance for doubtful microlending finance loans receivable, in our Consumer business, from 10% of the lending book outstanding to 6.5% of the lending book, which resulted in a release from the allowance in fiscal 2022. These reductions were partially offset by the inclusion of expenses related to Connects operations, higher employee-related expenses related to the expansion of our senior management team, and the year-over-year impact of inflationary increases on employee-related expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $3.2 million (ZAR 46.8 million), or 74.3% (in ZAR, 68.5%), increased due to the inclusion of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization related to intangible assets identified pursuant to the Connect acquisition, as well as the inclusion of depreciation expense related to Connects property, plant and equipment. We embarked on a retrenchment process on January 10, 2022, and incurred reorganization expenses of $5.9 million during fiscal 2022. Transaction costs related to Connect acquisition includes fees paid to external service providers associated with the contract drafting and negotiations; corporate finance advisory services; legal, financial and tax due diligence activities performed; warranty and indemnity insurance related to the transaction; and other advisory services procured; as well as our portion of the fees paid to competition authorities related to the regulatory filings made in various jurisdictions . Our operating loss margin in fiscal 2022 and 2021 was (18.1%) and (41.2%), respectively. Adjusting for the restructuring and transaction costs incurred, the underlying operating loss margin in fiscal 2022 was (12.7%). We discuss the components of operating loss margin under Results of operations by operating segment. The change in fair value of equity securities during fiscal 2021 represents a non-cash fair value adjustment gain related to MobiKwik. We continue to carry our investment in Cell C at $0 (zero). Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for the methodology and inputs used in the fair value calculation for MobiKwik and Note 6 for the methodology and inputs used in the fair value calculation for Cell C. 42 Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options represents the realized gain related to foreign exchange option contracts entered into in November 2021 in order to manage the risk of currency volatility and to fix the USD amount to be utilized for part of the Connect purchase consideration settlement. The foreign exchange option contracts matured on February 24, 2022. Refer to Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these currency options. We recorded a gain of $0.7 million related to the disposal of our entire interest in an equity security during fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this gain. We recorded a loss of $0.4 million related to the disposal of a minor portion of our investment in Finbond during fiscal 2022. Refer to Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these disposals. We recorded a loss of $0.5 million related to the disposal of Bank Frick during fiscal 2021. Interest on surplus cash decreased to $2.1 million (ZAR 31.7 million) from $2.4 million (ZAR 38.0 million), primarily due to the utilization of a significant portion of our surplus cash reserves to acquire Connect as well as lower average daily cash balances in fiscal 2022. Interest expense increased to $5.8 million (ZAR 88.6) million from $3.0 million (ZAR 46.9 million), primarily as a result of additional interest expense incurred related to borrowings obtained to partially fund the acquisition of Connect, interest expenses incurred in Connect to fund our cash management, digitization and VAS offerings, and a higher utilization of our facilities to fund our ATMs . Fiscal 2022 tax expense was $0.3 million (ZAR 5.0 million) compared to $7.6 million (ZAR 118.8 million) in fiscal 2021. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was impacted by the tax expense recorded by our profitable South African operations, a deferred tax benefit related to acquisition-related intangible asset amortization, non-deductible expenses (including transaction expenses related to the acquisition of Connect), the on-going losses incurred by certain of our South African businesses and the associated valuation allowances created related to the deferred tax assets recognized regarding net operating losses incurred by these entities. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was impacted by the tax effect on the change in the fair value of our equity securities, which is at a lower tax rate than the South African statutory rate, the tax charge related to our profitable South African operations, non- deductible expenses, the on-going losses incurred by certain of our South African businesses and the associated valuation allowances created related to the deferred tax assets recognized regarding net operating losses incurred by these entities, which was partially offset by the reversal of the deferred tax liability related to one of our equity-accounted investments following its impairment. The disposal of certain of our equity-accounted investments in fiscal 2021, as well as a number of impairments, has impacted the comparability of our loss from equity-accounted investments. We disposed of our investment in Bank Frick in fiscal 2021. We recorded an impairment loss related to our investment in Finbond in fiscal 2021 following a slow-down in its business activity and lower listed share price. Refer to Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our equity-accounted investments, including disclosure regarding the disposals and impairments. The table below presents the relative loss from our equity accounted investments: Table 10 Year ended June 30, 2022 2021 $ 000 $ 000 $ % change Finbond (3,665) (22,009) (83%) Share of net (loss) income (3,665) (4,359) (16%) Impairment - (17,650) nm Bank Frick - 1,156 nm Share of net income - 1,156 nm Other 16 (4,025) nm Share of net loss 16 (531) nm Impairment - (3,494) nm Total loss from equity-accounted investments (3,649) (24,878) (85%) 43 Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating income are illustrated below: Table 11 In U.S. Dollars Year ended June 30, 2022 % of 2021 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Consolidated revenue: Merchant 156,689 70% 62,944 48% 149% Consumer 65,932 30% 66,149 51% (0%) Subtotal: Operating segments 222,621 100% 129,093 99% 72% Not allocated to operating segments - - 1,693 1% nm Corporate/Eliminations (12) - - - nm Total consolidated revenue 222,609 100% 130,786 100% 70% Group Adjusted EBITDA: Merchant 12,646 (72%) 5,411 (14%) 134% Consumer (1) (21,674) 123% (25,962) 68% (17%) Not allocated to operating segments - - (10,899) 28% nm Group costs (8,587) 49% (6,965) 18% 23% Group Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) (2) (17,615) 100% (38,415) 100% (54%) (1) Consumer Segment Adjustment EBITDA for fiscal 2022 includes reorganization cost of $5.9 million. (2) Group Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure, refer to reconciliation below at Results of OperationsUse of Non- GAAP Measures. Table 12 In South African Rand Year ended June 30, 2022 % of 2021 % of % Operating Segment ZAR 000 total ZAR 000 total change Consolidated revenue: Merchant 2,381,323 70% 989,241 48% 141% Consumer 1,002,021 30% 1,039,611 51% (4%) Subtotal: Operating segments 3,383,344 100% 2,028,852 99% 67% Not allocated to operating segments - - 26,607 1% nm Corporate/Eliminations (178) - - - nm Total consolidated revenue 3,383,166 100% 2,055,459 100% 65% Group Adjusted EBITDA: Merchant 192,197 (72%) 85,040 (14%) 126% Consumer (1) (329,403) 123% (408,024) 68% (19%) Not allocated to operating segments - - 322,984 28% nm Group costs (130,503) 49% (109,463) 18% 19% Group Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) (2) (267,709) 100% (603,738) 100% (56%) (1) Consumer Segment Adjustment EBITDA for fiscal 2022 includes reorganization cost of ZAR 89.6 million. (2) Group Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure, refer to reconciliation below at Results of OperationsUse of Non- GAAP Measures. Merchant Segment revenue increased due to the inclusion of Connect for two and a half months and an increase in hardware sales and processing fees. The increase in Segment Adjusted EBITDA is primarily due to the inclusion of Connect, which was partially offset by higher costs related to processing fees and higher employee-related expenses. Connect records a significant proportion of its airtime sales in revenue and cost of sales, while only earning a relatively small margin. This depresses the Segment Adjusted EBITDA margins shown by the business. 44 Our Segment Adjusted EBITDA margin for fiscal 2022 and 2021 was 8.1% and 8.6%, respectively. Consumer The underlying decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower processing fees, partially offset by higher insurance and lending revenue and account holder fees. We embarked on a retrenchment process during the third quarter of fiscal 2022 and recorded an expense of $5.9 million which is included in the Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss, refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this process. Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss, excluding the reorganization charge, has decreased primarily due to the implementation of various cost reduction initiatives and a recalibration, in June 2022, of our allowance for doubtful microlending finance loans receivable from 10% of the lending book outstanding to 6.5% of the lending book, which resulted in a release from the allowance in fiscal 2022, which decreases were partially offset by an increase in insurance-related claims experience. Our Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss margin for fiscal 2022 and 2021 was (32.9%) and (39.2%), respectively. After adjusting for the reorganization charge our fiscal 2022 Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss margin was (23.9%) . We believe that the presentation of our Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss margin before the reorganization charge is useful to investors to understand the improvement in the operating performance in Consumer, before the reorganization charge, in fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021. Group costs Our group costs increased primarily due to higher employee costs, an increase in audit fees and directors and officers insurance premiums. Use of Non-GAAP Measures U.S. securities laws require that when we publish any non-GAAP measures, we disclose the reason for using these non-GAAP measures and provide reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. The presentation of Group Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. We provide this non-GAAP measure to enhance our evaluation and understanding of our financial performance. Non-GAAP Measures Group Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted for non- operational transactions (including loss on disposal of equity-accounted investments, gain related to fair value adjustments to currency options), (earnings) loss from equity-accounted investments, stock-based compensation charges, lease adjustments and once-off items. Lease adjustments reflect lease charges and once-off items represents non-recurring expense items, including costs related to acquisitions and transactions consummated or ultimately not pursued. 45 The table below presents the reconciliation between GAAP net loss attributable to Lesaka to Group Adjusted EBITDA: Table 13 Years ended June 30, 2023 2022 2021 $ 000 $ 000 $ 000 Loss attributable to Lesaka - GAAP (35,074) (43,876) (38,057) Loss from equity accounted investments 5,117 3,649 24,878 Net loss before loss from equity-accounted investments (29,957) (40,227) (13,179) Income tax (benefit) expense (2,309) 327 7,560 Loss before income tax expense (32,266) (39,900) (5,619) Interest expense 18,567 5,829 2,982 Interest income (1,853) (2,089) (2,416) Gain on disposal of equity securities - (720) - Net loss on disposal of equity-accounted investment 205 376 13 Loss on sale of Bank Frick - - 472 Gain related to fair value adjustment to currency options - (3,691) - Change in fair value of equity securities - - (49,304) Operating loss (15,347) (40,195) (53,872) Impairment loss 7,039 - - PPA amortization (amortization of acquired intangible assets) 15,149 3,826 360 Depreciation 8,536 3,749 3,987 Stock-based compensation charges 7,309 2,962 344 Lease adjustments 2,906 3,955 4,148 Once-off items (1) 1,922 8,088 6,618 Unrealized Loss FV for currency adjustments 222 - - Group Adjusted EBITDA - Non-GAAP 27,736 (17,615) (38,415) (1) The table below presents the components of once-off items for the periods presented: Table 14 Years ended June 30, 2023 2022 2021 $ 000 $ 000 $ 000 Non-recurring revenue not allocated to segments (1,469) - - Employee misappropriation of company funds 1,202 - - Transaction costs 850 6,460 1,879 Expenses incurred related to closure of legacy businesses 639 - - Indirect taxes provision 438 - - Separation of employee expense 262 - - Legacy processing adjustments - 1,628 - Allowance for doubtful EMI loans receivable - - 4,739 Total once-off items 1,922 8,088 6,618 Once-off items are non-recurring in nature, however, certain items may be reported in multiple quarters. For instance, transaction costs include costs incurred related to acquisitions and transactions consummated or ultimately not pursued. The transactions can span multiple quarters, for instance in fiscal 2022 we incurred significant transaction costs related to the acquisition Connect over a number of quarters, and the transactions are generally non-recurring. Non-recurring revenue not allocated to segments includes once off revenue recognized that we believe does not relate to either our Merchant or Consumer divisions. Employee misappropriation of company funds represents a once-off loss incurred. Expenses incurred related to close of legacy businesses represents costs incurred related to subsidiaries which we are in the process of deregistering/ liquidation and therefore we consider these costs non-operational and ad hoc in nature. Indirect tax provision includes non-recurring indirect taxes which have been provided related to prior periods following an on-going investigation from a tax authority. We incurred separation costs related to the termination of certain senior-level employees, including an executive officer and senior managers, during the fiscal year and we consider these specific terminations to be of a non-recurring nature. The legacy processing adjustments represents amounts we identified during fiscal 2022 related to prior periods that are payable to third parties. The allowance for doubtful EMI loans receivable relates to provision created in fiscal 2021 related to loan provided to certain of our then equity- accounted investments. 46 Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2023, our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents were $35.5 million and comprised of ZAR-denominated balances of ZAR 0.6 million ($29.2 million), U.S. dollar-denominated balances of $4.5 million, and other currency deposits, primarily Botswana pula, of $1.8 million, all amounts translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2023. The decrease in our unrestricted cash balances from June 30, 2022, was primarily due to the utilization of cash reserves to fund certain scheduled repayments of our borrowings, fully settle our revolving credit facility, purchase ATMs and safe assets, and to make an investment in working capital in our Consumer and Merchant operation, which was partially offset by the utilization of our available borrowings and a positive contribution from Connect and certain of our Consumer operations. We generally invest any surplus cash held by our South African operations in overnight call accounts that we maintain at South African banking institutions, and any surplus cash held by our non-South African companies in U.S. dollar-denominated money market accounts. Historically, we have financed most of our operations, research and development, working capital, and capital expenditures, as well as acquisitions and strategic investments, through internally generated cash and our financing facilities. When considering whether to borrow under our financing facilities, we consider the cost of capital, cost of financing, opportunity cost of utilizing surplus cash and availability of tax efficient structures to moderate financing costs. For instance, in fiscal 2022, we obtained loan facilities from RMB to fund a portion of our acquisition of Connect. Following the acquisition of Connect, we now utilize a combination of short and long-term facilities to fund our operating activities and a long-term asset-backed facility to fund the acquisition of POS devices and safe assets. Refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2023, for additional information related to our borrowings. Available short-term borrowings Summarized below are our short-term facilities available and utilized as of June 30, 2023: Table 15 RMB Facility E RMB Indirect RMB Connect Nedbank $ 000 ZAR 000 $ 000 ZAR 000 $ 000 ZAR 000 $ 000 ZAR 000 Total short-term facilities available, comprising: Overdraft - - - - 10,882 205,000 - - Overdraft restricted as to use (1) 74,319 1,400,000 - - - - - - Total overdraft 74,319 1,400,000 - - 10,882 205,000 - - Indirect and derivative facilities (2) - - 7,167 135,000 - - 8,311 156,556 Total short-term facilities available 74,319 1,400,000 7,167 135,000 10,882 205,000 8,311 156,556 Utilized short-term facilities: Overdraft - - - - 9,025 170,000 - - Overdraft restricted as to use (1) 23,021 433,654 - - - - - - Indirect and derivative facilities (2) - - 1,757 33,100 - - 112 2,110 Total short-term facilities available 23,021 433,654 1,757 33,100 9,025 170,000 112 2,110 Interest rate, based on South African prime rate 11.75% 11.65% (1) Overdraft may only be used to fund ATMs and upon utilization is considered restricted cash. (2) Indirect and derivative facilities may only be used for guarantees, letters of credit and forward exchange contracts to support guarantees issued by RMB and Nedbank to various third parties on our behalf. 47 Long-term borrowings We have aggregate long-term borrowing outstanding of ZAR 2.5 billion ($133.1 million translated at exchange rates as of June 30, 2023) as described in Note 12. These borrowings include outstanding long-term borrowings obtained by Lesaka SA of ZAR 0.9 billion, including accrued interest, which was used to partially fund the acquisition of Connect. The Lesaka SA borrowing arrangements were amended in March 2023 to include a ZAR 200 million revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility had been repaid in full as of June 30, 2023, and the entire balance is available for utilization. In contemplation of the Connect transaction, Connect obtained total facilities of approximately ZAR 1.3 billion, which were utilized to repay its existing borrowings, to fund a portion of its capital expenditures and to settle obligations under the transaction documents, and which has subsequently been upsized for its operational requirements and has an outstanding balance as of June 30, 2023, of ZAR 1.2 billion, We also have a revolving credit facility, of ZAR 300.0 million which is utilized to fund a portion of our merchant finance loans receivable book. Restricted cash We have credit facilities with RMB in order to access cash to fund our ATMs in South Africa. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash presented in our consolidated statement of cash flows as of June 30, 2023, includes restricted cash of approximately $23.0 million related to cash withdrawn from our debt facility to fund ATMs. This cash may only be used to fund ATMs and is considered restricted as to use and therefore is classified as restricted cash on our consolidated balance sheet. We have also entered into cession and pledge agreements with Nedbank related to our Nedbank credit facilities and we have ceded and pledged certain bank accounts to Nedbank. The funds included in these bank accounts are restricted as they may not be withdrawn without the express permission of Nedbank. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash presented in our consolidated statement of cash flows as of June 30, 2023, includes restricted cash of approximately $0.2 million that has been ceded and pledged. Cash flows from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2023 was $0.4 million (ZAR 7.4 million) compared to net cash utilized by operating activities of $37.2 million (ZAR 565.3 million) during fiscal 2022. Excluding the impact of income taxes, our cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2023 was impacted by the positive contribution from Connect and certain business within our consumer business, which was partially offset by growth in our consumer and merchant finance loans receivable books. During fiscal 2023, we observed fluctuations in our working capital, primarily within our merchant business, as a result of monthly changes in our inventory and prepayment account balances as a result of payments made to secure prepaid airtime inventory. Certain of these purchases were funded from our borrowing arrangements and the impact of the funding is included in financing activities. Net cash used in operating activities during fiscal 2022 was $37.2 million (ZAR 565.3 million) compared to $58.4 million (ZAR 887.1 million) generated during fiscal 2021. Excluding the impact of income taxes, our cash used in operating activities during fiscal 2022 was impacted by the cash losses incurred by the majority of our continuing operations, the reorganization costs paid during the third quarter of fiscal 2022, and transactions costs paid related to our acquisition of Connect. In fiscal 2022, we absorbed $5 million into working capital compared to a $4.7 million release from working capital in fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2023, we paid our first provisional South African tax payments of $3.0 million (ZAR 50.8 million) related to our 2023 tax year. During fiscal 2023, we also made our second provisional South African tax payments of $4.1 million (ZAR 76.1 million related to our 2023 tax year and received tax refunds of $0.2 million (ZAR (3.8) million). We also paid taxes totaling $0.4 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily in the Botswana. During fiscal 2022, we made our first provisional South African tax payments of $0.6 million (ZAR 9.1 million) related to our 2022 tax year. During fiscal 2022, we also made our second provisional South African tax payments of $0.7 million (ZAR 10.9 million related to our 2022 tax year and made an additional tax payment of $0.0 million (ZAR 0.0 million) related to our 2021 tax year. During fiscal 2021, we made our first provisional South African tax payments of $0.8 million (ZAR 11.9 million) related to our 2021 tax year. During fiscal 2021, we also made our second provisional South African tax payments of $0.5 million (ZAR 8.0 million) related to our 2021 tax year and made an additional tax payment of $0.8 million (ZAR 11.6 million) related to our 2020 tax year. We also paid taxes totaling $4.3 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily in the U.S. 48 Taxes paid during fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 were as follows: Table 16 Year ended June 30, 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR 000 000 000 000 000 000 First provisional payments 2,955 585 825 50,798 9,142 11,934 Second provisional payments 4,079 691 470 76,089 10,929 8,038 Taxation paid related to prior years 15 1 782 273 19 11,620 Tax refund received (210) (300) (1,339) (3,756) (4,542) (19,245) Total South African taxes paid 6,839 977 738 123,404 15,548 12,347 Foreign taxes paid 361 161 4,263 6,482 2,482 62,302 Total tax paid 7,200 1,138 5,001 129,886 18,030 74,649 We expect to make additional provisional income tax payments in South Africa related to our 2023 tax year in the first quarter of fiscal 2024, however, the amount was not quantifiable as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cash flows from investing activities Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2023 included capital expenditures of $16.2 million (ZAR 289.8 million), primarily due to the acquisition of ATMs . During fiscal 2023, we received proceeds of $0.25 million related to the first tranche (of two) from the disposal of our entire equity interest in Carbon and $0.4 million related to the sale of minor positions in Finbond. During fiscal 2022, we paid approximately $4.6 million (ZAR 69.3 million), primarily due to the roll out of our new express branches, acquisitions of ATMs and the acquisition of computer equipment. During fiscal 2022, we paid approximately $202.2 million (ZAR 2.9 billion), net of cash acquired, for 100% of Connect. We also received funds totaling approximately $11.4 million related to the sale of Bank Frick in fiscal 2021, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment of $4.2 million, and proceeds of $0.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively, related to the sale of minor positions in Finbond and from the disposal of our entire interest in Revix in fiscal 2022. During fiscal 2021, we paid approximately $4.3 million (ZAR 65.1 million), primarily for the acquisition of motor vehicles, which largely comprised a fleet of customized mobile ATMs used to deliver a service to rural communities, computer equipment and leasehold improvements in South Africa. In February 2021, we disposed of our investment in Bank Frick and received $18.6 million of the $30.0 million sales proceeds, the remainder of which was expected to be received in fiscal 2022 and 2023. We received $20.1 million in September 2020 related to the sale of our South Korean business in fiscal 2020 following the successful refund application of the amounts withheld and paid to the South Korean tax authorities pursuant to that transaction. We received $6.0 due on the remaining deferred sale proceeds related to the fiscal 2020 sale of DNI. We also extended loan funding of $1.0 million to V2 and $0.2 million to Revix. Cash flows from financing activities During fiscal 2023, we utilized approximately $520.1 million from our South African overdraft facilities to fund our ATMs and our cash management business through Connect and repaid $547.3 million of these facilities. We utilized approximately $24.4 million of our long-term borrowings to settle approximately $10.5 million of our revolving credit facilities, fund our merchant finance loans receivable business, and to fund the acquisition of certain capital expenditures . We repaid approximately $17.5 million of these long- term, including approximately $10.5 million to settle our revolving credit balance in full. We received $0.5 million from the exercise of stock options. We also paid $1.3 million to repurchase shares from employees in order for the employees to settle taxes due related to the vesting of shares of restricted stock and to settle the strike price due and taxes due related to the exercise of stock options. During fiscal 2022, we utilized approximately $570.9 million from our South African overdraft facilities to fund our ATMs and our cash management business through Connect and repaid $525.5 million of these facilities. We utilized approximately $78.9 million of our long-term borrowings to fund a portion of the acquisition of Connect, to fund our merchant finance loans receivable business, and to fund the acquisition of certain capital expenditures. We repaid approximately $5.6 million of these long-term borrowings. We also received $0.8 million from the exercise of stock options. During fiscal 2021, we utilized approximately $360.1 million from our South African overdraft facilities to fund our ATMs and repaid $365.4 million of these facilities. 49 Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2023: Table 17 Payments due by Period, as of June 30, 2023 (in $ 000s) Total Less than 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years Thereafter Short-term credit facilities (A) 32,046 32,046 - - - Long-term borrowings Principal repayments (A)(B) 133,118 3,663 68,901 60,554 - Interest payments (A)(B) 55,766 16,861 28,313 10,592 - Operating lease liabilities, including imputed interest (C) 5,813 2,123 2,055 1,635 - Purchase obligations 3,010 3,010 - - - Capital commitments 54 54 - - - Other long-term obligations reflected on our balance sheet (D)(E) 1,982 - - - 1,982 Total 231,789 57,757 99,269 72,781 1,982 (A) Refer to Note 12 to our audited consolidated financial statements. (B) Long-term borrowings principal repayments for the 3-5 year period includes all unamortized fees as of June 30, 2023. Interest payments based on applicable interest rates as of June 30, 2023, and expected outstanding long-term borrowings over the period. All amounts converted from ZAR to USD using the June 30, 2023, USD/ ZAR exchange rate. (C) Refer to Note 8 to our audited consolidated financial statements. (D) Includes policyholder liabilities of $1.8 million related to our insurance business. All amounts are translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2023. (E) We have excluded cross-guarantees in the aggregate amount of $0.1 million issued as of June 30, 2023, to RMB and Nedbank to secure guarantees it has issued to third parties on our behalf as the amounts that will be settled in cash are not known and the timing of any payments is uncertain. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off -balance sheet arrangements. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures for the years ended June 30, 2023, 2022 and 2021 were as follows: Table 18 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR 000 000 000 000 000 000 Consumer 3,170 1,712 3,433 56,870 26,019 52,174 Merchant 12,986 2,846 852 232,969 43,253 12,949 Total 16,156 4,558 4,285 289,839 69,272 65,123 Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, are discussed under Liquidity and Capital ResourcesCash flows from investing activities. All of our capital expenditures for the past three fiscal years were funded through internally-generated funds, except for certain capital expenditures of POS devices and safe assets, made by Connect which were funded through the utilization of asset-backed borrowings. We had outstanding capital commitments as of June 30, 2023, of $0.1 million. We expect to fund these expenditures through internally-generated funds. In addition to these capital expenditures, we expect that capital spending for fiscal 2024 will include acquisition of POS devices, safe assets, vehicles, computer and office equipment, as well as for our ATM infrastructure and branch network in South Africa. These assets will be funded through the use of internally-generated funds and our asset-backed borrowing arrangement. 50