Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCurrency Exchange Rate Information. Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. This difficulty may increase as we expand our business internationally and record additional revenue and expenses in the euro and other currencies. It may also have a negative impact on our stock price. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in U.S. dollars or euros. We have used forward contracts in order to hedge our economic exposure to the ZAR/U.S. dollar and ZAR/euro exchange rate fluctuations from these foreign currency transactions. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations. 21 South Africas high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce. While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in the rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. In addition, South Africa has a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the current electricity supply disruptions in South Africa which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth. Our businesses in South Africa are dependent on electricity generated and supplied by the state-owned utility, Eskom, in order to operate. Eskom is currently unable to generate and supply the amount of electricity required by South Africans, and the entire country has recently experienced significant and largely unpredictable electricity supply disruptions. Eskom has implemented a number of short- and long-term mitigation plans to correct these issues; however, we believe that these disruptions will continue until the commissioning of new electricity-generating power stations in South Africa. As part of our business continuity programs, we have installed back-up diesel generators in order for us to continue to operate our core data processing facilities in Cape Town and Johannesburg in the event of intermittent disruptions to our electricity supply. However, as a result of the high number of disruptions, we have been required to utilize our back-up generating capacity on a more regular basis. Consequently, we have had to perform additional monitoring and maintenance of these generators as well as sourcing and managing diesel fuel levels. We may also be required to replace these generators on a more frequent basis due to the additional burden placed on them. Our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth could be adversely affected if Eskom is unable to commission new electricity-generating power stations in a timely manner, or at all, or if we are unable to effectively and efficiently test, maintain, source fuel for and replace our generators. The economy of South Africa is exposed to high inflation and interest rates which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest rates that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. Although higher interest rates would increase the amount of income we earn on our cash balances, they would also adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective debt financing in South Africa. South African exchange control regulations could hinder our ability to make foreign investments and obtain foreign-denominated financing. South Africas exchange control regulations restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area, without the prior approval of SARB. While the South African government has relaxed exchange controls in recent years, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measures in the foreseeable future. Although Net1 is a U.S. corporation and is not itself subject to South African exchange control regulations, these regulations do restrict the ability of our South African subsidiaries to raise and deploy capital outside the Common Monetary Area, to borrow money in currencies other than the South African rand and to hold foreign currency. Exchange control restrictions may also affect the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to Net1 unless the affected subsidiary can show that any payment of such dividend will not place it in an over-borrowed position. As of June 30, 2015, approximately 90% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our South African subsidiaries. Exchange control regulations could make it difficult for our South African subsidiaries to: (i) export capital from South Africa; (ii) hold foreign currency or incur indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies without the approval of SARB; (iii) acquire an interest in a foreign venture without the approval of SARB and first having complied with the investment criteria of SARB; or (iv) repatriate to South Africa profits of foreign operations. These regulations could also limit our ability to utilize profits of one foreign business to finance operations of a different foreign business. 22 Under current exchange control regulations, SARB approval would be required for any acquisition of our company which would involve payment to our South African shareholders of any consideration other than South African rand. This restriction could limit our management in its ability to consider strategic options and thus, our shareholders may not be able to realize the premium over the current trading price of our shares. Most of South Africas major industries are unionized, and the majority of employees belong to trade unions. We face the risk of disruption from labor disputes and new South African labor laws. Trade unions have had a significant impact on the collective bargaining process as well as on social and political reform in South Africa in general. Although only approximately 2% percent of our South African workforce is unionized and we have not experienced any labor disruptions in recent years, such labor disruptions may occur in the future. In addition, developments in South African labor laws may increase our costs or alter our relationship with our employees and trade unions, which may have an adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our operations. Operating in South Africa and other emerging markets subjects us to greater risks than those we would face if we operated in more developed markets. Emerging markets such as South Africa, as well as some of the other markets into which we have recently begun to expand, including African countries outside South Africa, South America, Southeast Asia and Central and Eastern Europe, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets. While we focus our business primarily on emerging markets because that is where we perceive there to be the greatest opportunities to market our products and services successfully, the political, economic and market conditions in many of these markets present risks that could make it more difficult to operate our business successfully. Some of these risks include: - political and economic instability, including higher rates of inflation and currency fluctuations; - high levels of corruption, including bribery of public officials; - loss due to civil strife, acts of war or terrorism, guerrilla activities and insurrection; - a lack of well-developed legal systems which could make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights; - logistical, utilities (including electricity and water supply) and communications challenges; - potential adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including import and export license requirements and restrictions, tariffs, legal structures and tax laws; - difficulties in staffing and managing operations and ensuring the safety of our employees; - restrictions on the right to convert or repatriate currency or export assets; - greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; - indigenization and empowerment programs; - exposure to liability under the United Kingdoms Bribery Act 2010; and - exposure to liability under U.S. securities and foreign trade laws, including the FCPA, and regulations established by the U.S. Department of Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. Many of these countries and regions are in various stages of developing institutions and political, legal and regulatory systems that are characteristic of democracies. However, institutions in these countries and regions may not yet be as firmly established as they are in democracies in the developed world. Many of these countries and regions are also in the process of transitioning to a market economy and, as a result, are experiencing changes in their economies and their government policies that can affect our investments in these countries and regions. Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the new legal and regulatory regimes in these countries and regions are still being developed and, therefore, existing laws and regulations may be applied inconsistently. In some circumstances, it may not be possible to obtain the legal remedies provided under those laws and regulations in a timely manner. As the political, economic and legal environments remain subject to continuous development, investors in these countries and regions face uncertainty as to the security of their investments. Any unexpected changes in the political or economic conditions in these or neighboring countries or others in the region may have a material adverse effect on the international investments that we have made or may make in the future, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 23 Risks Relating to Government Regulation The South African National Credit Regulator has applied to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd, as a credit provider. If the registration is cancelled, we will not be able to provide UEPS-based loans to our customers, which would harm our business. Moneyline provides microloans to our UEPS/EMV cardholders. Moneyline is a registered credit provider under the South African National Credit Act, or NCA, and is required to comply with the NCA in the operation of its lending business. On September 22, 2014, the South African National Credit Regulator, or NCR, issued a press release stating that it has applied to the National Consumer Tribunal to cancel Moneylines registration, based on an investigation concluded by the NCR. The NCR's press release alleges, among other things, that Moneyline contravened the NCA by including child support grants and foster child grants in the affordability assessments performed by Moneyline prior to granting credit to these borrowers, and that the procedures followed and documentation maintained by Moneyline are not in accordance with the NCA. We have reviewed NCRs application and believe that it contains numerous factual inaccuracies. We believe that Moneyline has conducted its business in compliance with NCA and we are opposing the NCRs application. However, if the NCRs application is successful, Moneyline would be prohibited from operating its microlending business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are required to comply with certain U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA as well as economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We must comply with the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. In addition, OFAC administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the FCPA could subject us to substantial penalties. In addition, the requirement that we comply with the FCPA could put us at a competitive disadvantage with companies that are not required to comply with the FCPA or could otherwise harm our business. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a commonly accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us by foreign officials. Furthermore, the trade sanctions administered and enforced by OFAC target countries which are typically less developed countries. Since less developed countries present some of the best opportunities for us to expand our business internationally, restrictions against entering into transactions with those foreign countries, as well as with certain entities and individuals in those countries, can adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Changes in current South African government regulations relating to social welfare grants could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. We derive a substantial portion of our current business from the distribution of social welfare grants in South Africa. Because social welfare eligibility and grant amounts are regulated by the South African government, any changes to or reinterpretations of the government regulations relating to social welfare may result in the non-renewal or reduction of grants for certain individuals, or a determination that currently eligible social welfare grant recipient cardholders are no longer eligible. If any of these changes were to occur, the number of grants we distribute could decrease which could result in a reduction of our revenue and cash flows. We do not have a South African banking license and, therefore, we provide our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay EveryWhere solution through an arrangement with a third-party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere business without alternate means of access to a banking license. The South African retail banking market is highly regulated. Under current law and regulations, our South African social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere business activities requires us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. 24 We are not currently so registered, but we have entered into an agreement with Grindrod Bank Limited, or Grindrod, that enables us to implement our social welfare grant distribution and EasyPay Everywhere solution in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If the agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate these services unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. We are also dependent on Grindrod to defend us against attacks from the other South African banks who may regard the rapid market acceptance of our UEPS/EMV product with biometric verification as disruptive to their funds transfer or other businesses and may seek governmental or other regulatory intervention. In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. Smart Life was granted an Authorized Financial Service Provider, or FSP, license on June 9, 2015. We are in the process of applying for several other FSP licenses under this Act in order to sell other financial products as a registered FSP. If our status as juristic representative were to be cancelled and if we fail to obtain our own license, we may be stopped from continuing this part of our business in South Africa. Our payment processing businesses are subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements. Our payment processing activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We may be subject to regulations regarding privacy, data use and/or security which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulations in a number of the countries in which we operate relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about the people who use our products and services, in particular, personal financial and health information. New laws in this area have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has experienced recent significant volatility. During the 2015 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $10.21 to a high of $19.70. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: - government or regulatory investigations, including developments in the current U.S. government investigations; - fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate; - announcement of additional BEE transactions, especially one involving the issuance or potential issuance of equity securities or dilution of our existing business in South Africa; - quarterly variations in our operating results, especially if our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors; - announcements of acquisitions, disposals or impairments of intangible assets; - the timing of or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of major projects; - large purchases or sales of our common stock; - general conditions in the markets in which we operate; and - economic and financial conditions. 25 A majority of our common stock is beneficially owned by a small number of shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with those of our other shareholders. There is a concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock because approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. Based on their most recent SEC filings disclosing ownership of our shares, International Value Advisers, LLC, or IVA, and Allan Gray Proprietary Limited, beneficially owned approximately 28% and 19% of our outstanding common stock, respectively. The interests of IVA and Allan Gray may be different from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of the ownership by IVA and Allan Gray, they will be able, if they act together, to significantly influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, thus depriving shareholders of a premium for their shares, or facilitating a change of control that other shareholders may oppose. We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations or acquisitions as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies, to expand into new markets and to make acquisitions, all of which may be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations or to acquire other businesses, issue shares in a BEE transaction, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders. In addition, additional shares that we issue would likely be freely tradable which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 26 Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, especially over companies that we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, we are required to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal controls also applies to companies that we acquire. Some of these companies may not be required to comply with Sarbanes prior to the time we acquire them. The integration of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting could require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. If we fail to successfully integrate the operations of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the markets perception of our business and our stock price. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws, against us or our directors and officers and experts. While Net1 is incorporated in the state of Florida, United States, the company is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa and substantially all of the companys assets are located outside the United States. In addition, all of Net1s directors and officers reside outside of the United States and our experts, including our independent registered public accountants, are based in South Africa. As a result, even though you could effect service of legal process upon Net1, as a Florida corporation, in the United States, you may not be able to collect any judgment obtained against Net1 in the United States, including any judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, because substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process upon the majority of our directors and officers or upon our experts within the United States or elsewhere outside South Africa and any judgment obtained against any of our foreign directors, officers and experts in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by a South African court. A foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which will be enforced by South African courts provided that: the court or arbitral body which pronounced the judgment had international jurisdiction and competence to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); the judgment has not lapsed; the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy in South Africa, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that no award is enforceable unless the defendant was duly served with documents initiating proceedings, that he was given a fair opportunity to be heard and that he enjoyed the right to be legally represented in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; the judgment was not obtained by improper or fraudulent means; the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or foreign revenue law or any award of multiple or punitive damages; and the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Business Act 99 of 1978 (as amended), of the Republic of South Africa. It has been the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. South African courts have awarded compensation to shareholders who have suffered damages as a result of a diminution in the value of their shares based on various actions by the corporation and its management. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, that does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. 27 Whether a judgment was contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable, or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by a South African court, it will be payable in South African currency. Also, under South Africas exchange control laws, the approval of SARB is required before a defendant resident in South Africa may pay money to a non-resident plaintiff in satisfaction of a foreign judgment enforced by a court in South Africa. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws may be brought before South African courts. A plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. Furthermore, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South African courts. In reaching the foregoing conclusions, we consulted with our South African legal counsel, Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc. - Remainder of this page left blank - 28 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease our corporate headquarters facility which consists of approximately 93,000 square feet in Johannesburg, South Africa. We also lease properties throughout South Africa, including a 12,088 square foot manufacturing facility in Lazer Park and 153 depot facilities. We also lease additional office space in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban, South Africa; London, United Kingdom; Seoul, South Korea; Mumbai, India; and Frederick, Maryland. These leases expire at various dates through 2018. We own land and buildings in Ahnsung, Kyung-gi, South Korea, that is used for the storage of business documents. We believe that we have adequate facilities for our current business operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Challenge to Payment by SASSA of Additional Implementation Costs On March 25, 2015, Corruption Watch, a South African non-profit civil society organization, filed a Notice of Motion with the High Court of South Africa, notifying the Court that it intends to apply for an order by the Court to review and set aside the decision of SASSAs Chief Executive Officer to approve the payment to us of ZAR 317 million (approximately ZAR 277 million, excluding VAT). Corruption Watch claims that there was no lawful basis for the decision to make the payment to us, and that the decision was unreasonable and irrational and did not comply with South African legislation. We have been named as a respondent in the Notice of Motion. On April 17, 2015 we filed a Notice of Intention to Oppose with the Court. As we previously disclosed, in June 2014, we received approximately ZAR 277 million, excluding VAT, from SASSA, related to the recovery of additional implementation costs we incurred during the beneficiary re-registration process in fiscal 2012 and 2013. After we signed our SASSA contract, SASSA requested that we biometrically register all social grant beneficiaries (including child grant beneficiaries), in addition to the grant recipients who were issued with the SASSA-branded UEPS/EMV smart cards. We agreed to SASSAs request, and as a result, we performed approximately 11 million additional registrations beyond those that we were contractually required to perform in consideration for our monthly service fee. Accordingly, we claimed a cost recovery from SASSA, supported by a factual findings certificate from an independent auditing firm. SASSA agreed to pay us the ZAR 277 million as full settlement of the additional costs we incurred. We believe that Corruption Watchs claim is without merit, and we intend to defend it vigorously. However, we cannot predict how the Court will rule on the matter. Suit against AllPay On December 11, 2012, we commenced a lawsuit in the South Gauteng High Court in South Africa against AllPay. In our lawsuit, we alleged that AllPay, wrongfully and unlawfully and with the intention of injuring our reputation, infringing our goodwill and reducing our share price, competed unlawfully with us, by: directly or indirectly making false reports and providing false information to members of the South African media, thereby creating the basis for false media reports which alleged or implied that the SASSA tender process was tainted by corruption through bribes by or on behalf of our subsidiary, CPS; introducing the media reports and allegations of corruption by or on behalf of us, in connection with the SASSA tender process, into the court proceedings in South Africa instituted by AllPay, in which it sought to set aside the award of the tender to us; causing an unfounded report to be made to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, or JSE, regarding disclosure that we made in relation to the SASSA contract; making a report to the DOJ, bringing to the attention of the DOJ the corruption allegations and the South African media reports and repeating the allegations made in the report to the JSE; and falsely seeking to create the impression in media reports and radio interviews that it had been found in the South African court proceedings described above that the tender process was tainted by corruption. In the lawsuit, we are seeking damages in the aggregate amount of ZAR 478 million (approximately US$38.9 million based on the ZAR/U.S. dollar exchange rate on June 30, 2015) plus interest and costs. The damages claimed may increase as we quantify the continued impact of AllPays actions. A trial date will be applied for after the exchange of the required pleadings and finalization of any interlocutory issues which may arise. We cannot predict when this matter will go to trial. 29 Our application to prompt the Hawks to conduct an investigation into corruption allegations that appeared in the South African media On February 14, 2013, we filed an application pursuant to Section 34 of the South African Prevention of Corrupt Activities Act in South Africa with the South African Police Service. Section 34 deals with the reporting of suspected fraud, theft, extortion and forgery. Matters reported under Section 34 are usually referred for investigation to the South African Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, known as the Hawks. We filed the Section 34 application to prompt the Hawks to conduct an investigation into who may have made corruption allegations that appeared in the South African media after we were awarded the SASSA tender in January 2012. The Hawks have confirmed to us that our Section 34 application has been accepted for investigation. We have provided certain electronic information to the Hawks at their request, and we will cooperate with the Hawks in their investigation. We cannot predict when the Hawks investigation will be completed or the impact or outcome of that investigation. NCR application for the cancelation of Moneylines registration as a credit provider On September 23, 2014 the NCR applied to the South African National Consumer Tribunal, or Tribunal, to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd, or Moneyline, for breach of the NCA based on an investigation concluded by it. Pursuant to the investigation, the NCA also issued two Compliance Notices one to CPS and one to Moneyline. The Compliance Notice issued to Moneyline accused it of having access into the Grindrod Bank Accounts of social grant beneficiaries which enables them (sic) to see the spending patterns of beneficiaries and deposit loan amounts into such accounts. The Compliance Notice issued to CPS accused it of providing information about social grant beneficiaries to Moneyline in breach of section 68(1) of the NCA. The Compliance Notices demanded that both CPS and Moneyline take the appropriate steps to address the alleged non-compliance with the NCA and to report in writing to the NCR, along with an independent audit report, that they were no longer non-compliant as alleged by the Compliance Notices. We opposed the issuance of the Compliance Notices and the Tribunal granted our requested orders that both Compliance Notices be set aside. Regarding the NCRs application to cancel the registration of Moneyline, the NCR applied to amend its original statement of claim shortly before the scheduled date for the hearing into this matter. We agreed to the filing of an amended statement of claim and we have filed our response thereto. The Tribunal is now expected to schedule a hearing to decide on the NCRs application. We cannot predict when these hearings will take place, or what the outcome will be. United States securities litigation On December 24, 2013, Net1, our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer were named as defendants in a purported class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging violations of the federal securities laws. The lawsuit was brought on behalf of a purported shareholder of Net1 and all other similarly situated shareholders who purchased our securities between August 27, 2009 and November 27, 2013. On July 23, 2014, the Court appointed a lead plaintiff and lead counsel. On September 22, 2014, the lead plaintiff filed an amended complaint alleging that we made materially false and misleading statements in that we failed to disclose material adverse information and misrepresented the truth about our finances and business prospects. The amended complaint seeks unspecified damages on behalf of the lead plaintiff and all other similarly situated shareholders who purchased our securities between January 18, 2012 and December 4, 2012, which is a shorter class period than proposed in the original complaint. On January 16, 2015, we filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs amended complaint for failure to state a claim. On March 6, 2015, plaintiff filed an opposition to our motion to dismiss its complaint, and we filed a reply brief on March 27, 2015. No motion for class certification has been filed. We believe this lawsuit has no merit and intend to defend it vigorously. There are no other material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, to which we are a party or of which any of our property is the subject. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 30 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market information Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, in the United States under the symbol UEPS and on the JSE in South Africa under the symbol NT1. The Nasdaq is our principal market for the trading of our common stock. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq. Period High Low Quarter ended September 30, 2013 $ 13.00 $ 7.01 Quarter ended December 31, 2013 $ 12.74 $ 7.33 Quarter ended March 31, 2014 $ 10.90 $ 7.58 Quarter ended June 30, 2014 $ 12.09 $ 7.03 Quarter ended September 30, 2014 $ 14.24 $ 10.38 Quarter ended December 31, 2014 $ 13.27 $ 10.21 Quarter ended March 31, 2015 $ 14.90 $ 11.24 Quarter ended June 30, 2015 $ 19.70 $ 12.19 Our transfer agent in the United States is Computershare Shareowner Services LLC, 480 Washington Blvd, Jersey City, New Jersey, 07310. According to the records of our transfer agent, as of August 14, 2015, there were 11 shareholders of record of our common stock. A substantially greater number of holders of our common stock are street name or beneficial holders, whose shares are held of record by banks, brokers, and other financial institutions. Our transfer agent in South Africa is Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd, 13th Floor, Rennie House, 19 Ameshoff Street, Braamfontein, 2001, South Africa. Dividends We have not paid any dividends on our shares of common stock during our last two fiscal years and presently intend to retain future earnings to finance the expansion of the business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, expansion plans, financial condition and other relevant factors. Issuer purchases of equity securities As described in detail in footnote 14 to our consolidated financial statements, in August 2014, we repurchased 1,837,432 shares of our common stock from BVI, one of our BEE partners, pursuant to a Subscription and Sale of Shares Agreement, at a price of ZAR 52.98 per share. In August 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million of our common stock from time to time. The authorization has no expiration date. We have not repurchased any shares under this authorization. The repurchase of shares described in the previous paragraph were effected pursuant to a separate authorization by our Board of Directors. 31 Share performance graph The chart below compares the five-year cumulative return, assuming the reinvestment of dividends, where applicable, on our common stock with that of the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Industrial Index. This graph assumes $100 was invested on June 30, 2010, in each of our common stock, the S&P 500 companies, and the companies in the NASDAQ Industrial Index. 32 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected historical consolidated financial data should be read together with Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following selected historical financial data as of June 30, 2015 and 2014, and for the three years ended June 30, 2015 have been derived from our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected historical consolidated financial data presented below as of June 30, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, have been derived from our consolidated financial statements, which are not included herein. The selected historical financial data as of each date and for each period presented have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in any future period. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (in thousands, except per share data) Year Ended June 30 2015 2014 (1) 2013 (1) 2012 (1) 2011 (2) Revenue $ 625,979 $ 581,656 $ 452,147 $ 390,264 $ 343,420 Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 297,856 260,232 196,834 141,000 109,858 Selling, general and administrative 158,919 168,072 191,552 137,404 119,692 Equity instruments granted pursuant to BEE transactions (3) - 11,268 - 14,211 - Depreciation and amortization 40,685 40,286 40,599 36,499 34,671 Impairment losses - - - - 41,771 Operating income 128,519 101,798 23,162 61,150 37,428 Interest income 16,355 14,817 12,083 8,576 7,654 Interest expense 4,456 7,473 7,966 9,345 8,672 Income before income taxes 140,418 109,142 27,279 60,381 36,410 Income tax expense 44,136 39,379 14,656 15,936 33,525 Net income attributable to Net1 94,735 70,111 12,977 44,651 2,647 Income from continuing operations per share: Basic $ 2.03 $ 1.51 $ 0.28 $ 0.99 $ 0.06 Diluted $ 2.02 $ 1.50 $ 0.28 $ 0.99 $ 0.06 (1) Includes revenue and implementation costs related to our SASSA contract from April 2012. In addition, 2014 includes recovery of $26.6 million of implementation costs from SASSA. (2) Includes KSNET from November 2010. (3) Includes a non-cash charge of approximately $11.3 million in 2014 related to common stock issued in our BEE transactions. In addition, 2012 includes a non-cash charge of approximately $14.2 million in connection with the issuance of a now-expired option to purchase shares of our common stock in a previous BEE transaction. Additional Operating Data: (in thousands, except percentages) Year ended June 30, 2015 (1) 2014 (1) 2013 (1) 2012 (1) 2011 (1) Cash flows provided by operating activities $ 135,258 $ 37,145 $ 55,917 $ 20,406 $ 66,223 Cash flows used in investing activities $ 59,483 $ 21,640 $ 447,816 $ 292,539 $ 323,685 Cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities. $ (4,516 ) $ (13,378 ) $ 409,716 $ 231,907 $ 183,269 Operating income margin 21% 18% 5% 16% 11% (1) Cash flows used in investing activities include movements in settlement assets and cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities include movement in settlement liabilities. 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: (in thousands) As of June 30, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents $ 117,583 $ 58,672 $ 53,665 $ 39,123 $ 95,263 Total current assets before settlement assets 329,307 282,908 184,723 175,236 213,421 Goodwill 166,437 186,576 175,806 182,737 209,570 Intangible assets 47,124 68,514 77,257 93,930 119,856 Total assets 1,286,430 1,350,945 1,276,322 955,893 781,645 Total current liabilities before settlement obligations 82,198 81,823 76,859 73,377 102,406 Total long-term debt 50,762 62,388 66,632 79,760 111,776 Total equity $ 478,785 $ 441,748 $ 339,969 $ 346,811 $ 328,010 - Remainder of this page left blank - 34 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6Selected Financial Data and Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. See Item 1A Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. Overview We are a leading provider of payment solutions and transaction processing services across multiple industries and in a number of emerging economies. We have developed and market a comprehensive transaction processing solution that encompasses our smart card-based alternative payment system for the unbanked and under-banked populations of developing economies and for mobile transaction channels. Our market-leading system can enable the billions of people globally who generally have limited or no access to a bank account to enter affordably into electronic transactions with each other, government agencies, employers, merchants and other financial service providers. Our UEPS, and UEPS/EMV derivative discussed below, uses biometrically secure smart cards that operate in real-time but offline, unlike traditional payment systems offered by major banking institutions that require immediate access through a communications network to a centralized computer. This offline capability means that users of our system can conduct transactions at any time with other card holders in even the most remote areas so long as a smart card reader, which is often portable and battery powered, is available. Our off-line systems also offer the highest level of availability and affordability by removing any elements that are costly and are prone to outages. Our latest version of the UEPS technology has been certified by EMV, which facilitates our traditionally proprietary UEPS system to interoperate with the global EMV standard and allows card holders to transact at any EMV-enabled point of sale terminal or ATM. The UEPS/EMV technology has been deployed on an extensive scale in South Africa through the issuance of MasterCard-branded UEPS/EMV cards to our social welfare grant customers. In addition to effecting purchases, cash-backs and any form of payment, our system can be used for banking, healthcare management, international money transfers, voting and identification. We also provide secure transaction technology solutions and services, by offering transaction processing, financial and clinical risk management solutions to various industries. We have extensive expertise in secure online transaction processing, cryptography, mobile telephony, integrated circuit card (chip/smart card) technologies, and the design and provision of financial and value-added services to our cardholder base. Our technology is widely used in South Africa today, where we distribute pension and welfare payments, using our UEPS/EMV technology, to over nine million recipient cardholders across the entire country, process debit and credit card payment transactions on behalf of a wide range of retailers through our EasyPay system, process value-added services such as bill payments and prepaid airtime and electricity for the major bill issuers and local councils in South Africa, and provide mobile telephone top-up transactions for all of the South African mobile carriers. We are the largest provider of third-party and associated payroll payments in South Africa through our FIHRST service. We provide financial inclusion services such as microloans, mobile transacting and prepaid utilities to our cardholder base. Internationally, through KSNET, we are one of the top three VAN processors in South Korea, and we offer card processing, payment gateway and banking value-added services in that country. Our XeoHealth service provides funders and providers of healthcare in United States with an on-line real-time management system for healthcare transactions. Our ZAZOO business unit is responsible for the worldwide technical development and commercialization of our array of web and mobile applications and payment technologies, such as MVC, Chip and GSM licensing and VTU, and has deployed solutions in many countries, including South Africa, Namibia, Nigeria, Malawi, Cameroon, the Philippines, India and Colombia. Sources of Revenue We generate our revenues by charging transaction fees to government agencies, merchants, financial service providers, utility providers, bill issuers, employers and healthcare providers; by providing loans and insurance products and by selling hardware, licensing software and providing related technology services. We have structured our business and our business development efforts around four related but separate approaches to deploying our technology. In our most basic approach, we act as a supplier, selling our equipment, software, and related technology to a customer. The revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment. 35 We have found that we have greater revenue and profit opportunities, however, by acting as a service provider instead of a supplier. In this approach we own and operate the UEPS ourselves, charging one-time and on-going fees for the use of the system either on a fixed or ad valorem basis. This is the case in South Africa, where we distribute welfare grants on behalf of the South African government on a fixed fee basis, but charge a fee on an ad valorem basis for goods and services purchased using our smart card. The revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our South African transaction processing and Financial inclusion and applied technologies segments. Because our smart cards are designed to enable the delivery of more advanced services and products, we are also willing to supply those services and products directly where the business case is compelling. For instance, we provide short-term UEPS-based loans to our smart card holders. This is an example of the third approach that we have taken. Here we can act as the principal in operating a business that can be better delivered through our UEPS. We can also act as an agent, for instance, in the provision of insurance policies. In both cases, the revenue and costs associated with this approach are reflected in our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment. In South Africa, we also generate fees from debit and credit card transaction processing, the provision of value-added services such as bill payments, mobile top-up and prepaid utility sales, and from providing a payroll transaction management service. The revenue and costs associated with these services are reflected in our South African transaction processing and Financial inclusion and applied technologies segments. Through KSNET, we earn most of our revenue from payment processing services we provide to approximately 225,000 merchants and to card issuers in South Korea through our value-added-network. In the U.S., we earn transaction fees from our customers utilizing our XeoRules on-line real-time management system for healthcare transactions. We also generate fees from our customers who utilize our VCPay technology to generate a unique, one-time use prepaid virtual card number to securely purchase goods and services or perform bill payments in any card-not-present environment. The revenue and costs at KSNET, XeoHealth and VCPay are reflected in our International transaction processing segment. Finally, we have entered into business partnerships or joint ventures to introduce our payment solutions to markets such as Namibia and more recently through T24 Hong Kong and One Credit in Nigeria. In these situations, we take an equity position in the business while also acting as a supplier of technology. In evaluating these types of opportunities, we seek to maintain a highly disciplined approach, carefully selecting partners, participating closely in the development of the business plan and remaining actively engaged in the management of the new business. In most instances, the joint venture or partnership has a license to use our proprietary technologies in the specific territory, including the back-end system. We account for our equity investments using the equity method. When we equity-account these investments, we are required under U.S. GAAP to eliminate our share of the net income generated from sales of hardware and software to the investee. We recognize this net income from these equity-accounted investments during the period in which the hardware and software is utilized in the investees operations, or has been sold to third-party customers, as the case may be. We believe that this flexible approach enables us to drive adoption of our solution while capturing the value created by the implementation of our technology. Developments during Fiscal 2015 ZAZOO We established ZAZOO in the United Kingdom to oversee the global expansion of our mobile payments and value-added services businesses, including the activities currently conducted through our N1MS business unit. ZAZOOs management is focused on worldwide growth opportunities, especially in the UK, Europe, the United States, Nigeria, India and other developed and emerging markets. ZAZOO coordinates all research and development, operations and marketing activities associated with N1MS mobile businesses. ZAZOO entered into strategic collaborations with Uber, Microsoft and Cell C (one of South Africas largest mobile operators) during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 for our VCPay mobile application. VCPay is a mobile phone-based application that generates transaction specific virtual MasterCards that can be used for online purchases, or in brick-and-mortar retailers, that accept manual card-not-present payments. Users can also send a virtual card to friends or family anywhere via email, SMS, MMS or WhatsApp, making it simpler than ever before to send funds to third parties. VCPay is fully interoperable and does not require merchants to change the way in which payments are accepted online or via mobile applications, like Uber. We believe that VCPay bridges the electronic payment requirement gap for online or in-application payments by providing an immediate, safe and secure payment solution to anybody, regardless of their banking status. Our collaboration with Uber in South Africa enables people who do not own credit cards to now use VCPay to pay for the Uber service. 36 As a result of our collaboration with Microsoft and Cell C, ZAZOO agreed to sponsor a R250 VCPay voucher to consumers who purchase the new Microsoft Lumia 535 on a Cell C contract. The new device became available on Cell Cs talk and data contracts beginning February 1, 2015, and the initial batch was packaged with the VCPay voucher for new owners to use in completing a purchase of their choice when using our VCPay service. Introduction of EasyPay Everywhere EPE and EPE ATMs in South Africa In June 2015, we began the rollout of our business-to-consumer, or B2C, EasyPay Everywhere offering in South Africa. EPE is a fully transactional account created to serve the needs of South Africas unbanked and under-banked population, and is available to all consumers regardless of their financial or social status. The EPE account offers customers a comprehensive suite of financial and various financial inclusion services, such as prepaid products, in a economical, convenient and secure solution. EPE provides account holders with a UEPS-EMV debit MasterCard, mobile and internet banking services, ATM and POS services, as well as loans, insurance and other financial products and value-added services. To support the rollout of EPE, we deployed ATMs, which are both EMV-and UEPS-compliant, and provided biometric verification as well as proof of life functionality, in South Africa. We placed these ATMs with our merchant partners and within our own branches, creating a new delivery channel for our products and services that did not previously exist. Although capital intensive, our ATM rollout has already begun to make a positive contribution to our reported results. We have been able to expand our customer base because our ATMs accept all EMV-compliant cards. We currently have approximately 640 operational ATMs, and we are actively deploying more ATMs in high demand areas. We will continue to expand our ATM footprint in fiscal 2016. World Food Program The Southern Africa Regional Office of the United Nations World Food Program, or the WFP, has awarded to us a contract for 12 countries that are members of the Southern African Development Community. Under the terms of the contract, we distribute cash and food grants to hundreds of thousands of WFP beneficiaries in these countries. Our technology makes use of the existing infrastructure in each territory and allows for the biometric verification of all beneficiaries regardless of whether or not such infrastructure is biometrically enabled. In certain situations, we utilize our patented variable PIN technology in conjunction with fingerprint or voice verification methods using any mobile phone. We do not expect that this socially responsible initiative will necessarily translate into a meaningful financial contributor for us in the short term, but we strongly believe that the exposure and credibility associated with winning and operating a project of this nature and scale will create further opportunities for us to implement the same or similar solutions in other contexts. We are currently finalizing our deployment contract with the WFP office based in South Africa. Strategic investments During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we made two strategic investments in Hong Kong and Nigeria, acquiring a significant noncontrolling stake in each company. Both investments represent opportunities in specific markets with companies that have an established local presence, knowledge, and customer relationships, and where the introduction of our technology or solutions can enhance the breadth of their offerings and in turn the market opportunity. T24 In May 2015, we acquired a 43.88% interest in Transact24 Limited, or T24, a specialist Hong Kong-based payment services company. We believe that our investment in T24s business will complement our existing products and will further expand our product suite and geographic reach. In addition, the T24 management team has a wealth of experience in transaction processing, and will provide us with specialist marketing business development resources to expand the adoption of the Net1 product range including our Mobile Virtual Card product. T24 also provides us with an entry into the rapidly growing Chinese e-commerce and transaction processing markets through its established relationships with China UnionPay, the only domestic bank card organization and interbank network in China, and AliPay, Chinas leading third party online payment platform. T24s primary business activities include: Chinese debit card acquiring T24 has processing relationships with China UnionPay, AliPay and five other Chinese gateways Credit card acquiring T24 has acquiring relationships with banks and processing institutions in the UK, Germany, Australia and Mauritius. T24 also offers a white-labeled credit card acquiring gateway to entities who wish to outsource the technical integration and operations of their acquiring gateways; Automated clearing house, or ACH, processing T24 provides unsecured loan ACH processing for Tribal and State- licensed lenders in the U.S.; Prepaid card issuing and processing T24 issues U.S. Dollar-denominated Visa prepaid cards, South African Rand- denominated MasterCard prepaid cards and Hong Kong Dollar-denominated China UnionPay prepaid cards. 37 One Credit In May 2015, we acquired a 25% interest in One Credit Limited, a leading Nigerian consumer finance company focused on providing credit to unbanked, salaried Nigerian consumers. We have also agreed to provide One Credit with a credit facility of up to $10 million in the form of convertible debt. We believe that we can assist One Credit to grow its market share through the provision of its financial technology products and services, which have been designed to address the biggest challenge facing Nigerian financial institutions the ability to provide seamless and cashless services in an environment that poses significant logistical and infrastructural obstacles. In addition, our solutions will enhance One Credits credit risk management and expand the current product offering to these customers. By acquiring a significant minority stake, we believe that we will be able to actively participate in the formulation and execution of the One Credit business plan, including its delivery platforms. Withdrawal from 2014 SASSA tender process We decided to withdraw from the 2014 SASSA tender process and did not submit a bid. We reached this conclusion after careful consideration of all the relevant factors, including financial feasibility of the RFP, further questions raised by prospective bidders, execution of our strategic plan, legal risks, reputational risk, and long term value creation for shareholders. We believe that the deployment of our business plan, which focuses on providing a comprehensive suite of transactional products and services, will allow us to service all South Africas unbanked and under-banked citizens including social grant beneficiaries, but independently and without SASSAs limitations and constraints. Our business plan includes the continued successful deployment of our EasyPay Everywhere bank account, biometric ATMs and mobile portal, our suite of financial and added value services utilizing our proven and innovative technological systems. We believe that these activities will ensure a sustainable business model that will, over time, far exceed the benefits that could be realized from being the successful bidder for the SASSA RFP. In addition, the execution of the business plan will no longer be limited by a five year contract (or potentially shorter if legally challenged) and provides us with the ability to freely determine pricing that is both competitive and profitable and removes any unknown or contingent liabilities associated with government contracts. We also expect to have more management bandwidth, which we believe will enable us to accelerate our international expansion. The South African Constitutional Courts order dated March 19, 2015 determined that SASSA should award the tender by October 15, 2015. Our current contract terminates in the event that SASSA awards a new contract to a third party and we will then have to negotiate the terms of phasing out our activities with SASSA and the new contractor. See Item 1ARisk FactorsWe have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from our SASSA contract for the payment of social grants. However, we have decided not to participate in the latest SASSA tender and we are not sure when, or if, a new contractor will be appointed. If a new contractor is appointed, our current contract terminates and we are unable to predict what the terms and timing of any transitional arrangement will be and If SASSA appoints a new contractor, we are unable to predict what the terms and timing of any transitional arrangement will be. Regulatory developments Conclusion of SEC investigation commenced in 2012 On June 8, 2015, we were notified by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act unit of the Division of Enforcement of the SEC, advising us that it had concluded its investigation of us and it did not intend to recommend an enforcement action. It is our understanding that the DOJ investigation is continuing. Smart Life to resume writing new insurance policies in fiscal 2016 We complied with the conditions imposed by the South African Financial Services Board, or FSB, to uplift the suspension of Smart Lifes license to provide long-term insurance products, which resulted in the FSB withdrawing the prohibition to conduct new business issued by it approximately two years ago. In early fiscal 2016, we resumed marketing and business development activities for the distribution of our simple, low-cost life insurance products. 38 Transactions in preparation for SASSA tender commenced in late calendar 2014 On August 27, 2014, we entered into a Subscription and Sale of Shares Agreement with BVI, one of our BEE partners, in preparation for the SASSA tender that we expected would commence in late calendar 2014. Pursuant to the agreement: (i) we repurchased BVIs remaining 1,837,432 shares of Net1 common stock for approximately ZAR 97.4 million in cash ($9.2 million translated at exchange rates prevailing as of August 27, 2014) and (ii) BVI subscribed for new ordinary shares of Cash Paymaster Services (Pty) Ltd, or CPS, representing approximately 12.5% of CPS ordinary shares outstanding after the subscription for ZAR 15.0 million in cash (approximately $1.4 million translated at exchange rates prevailing as of August 27, 2014). In connection with transactions described above, the CPS shareholder agreement that was negotiated as part of the original December 2013 Relationship Agreement became effective. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty, the determination of estimates requires managements judgment based on a variety of assumptions and other determinants such as historical experience, current and expected market conditions and certain scientific evaluation techniques. Management believes that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and the impact of these policies on the understanding of the results of our operations and financial condition. Business Combinations and the Recoverability of Goodwill A component of our growth strategy has been to acquire and integrate businesses that complement our existing operations. The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair value at the date of purchase. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, we use various recognized valuation methods, including present value modeling. Further, we make assumptions using certain valuation techniques, including discount rates and timing of future cash flows. We review the carrying value of goodwill annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. In performing this review, we are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill that is implied from a valuation of the reporting unit to which the goodwill has been allocated after deducting the fair values of all the identifiable assets and liabilities that form part of the reporting unit. The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In determining the fair value of reporting units, we consider the earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, and the EBITDA multiples applicable to peer and industry comparables of the reporting units. We base our estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. In addition, we make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. The results of our impairment tests during fiscal 2015 indicated that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and therefore our reporting units were not at risk of potential impairment. Intangible Assets Acquired Through Acquisitions The fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired through acquisitions were determined by management using the purchase method of accounting. We completed acquisitions during fiscal 2013 where we identified and recognized intangible assets. We have used the relief from royalty method, the multi-period excess earnings method, the income approach and the cost approach to value acquisition-related intangible assets. In so doing, we made assumptions regarding expected future revenues and expenses to develop the underlying forecasts, applied contributory asset charges, discount rates, exchange rates, cash tax charges and useful lives. The valuations were based on information available at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by us. No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected. For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows. To the extent actual cash flows vary, revisions to the useful life or impairment of intangible assets may be necessary. 39 Deferred Taxation We estimate our tax liability through the calculations done for the determination of our current tax liability, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which are disclosed on our balance sheet. Management then has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in future periods. In the event it is determined that the deferred tax assets to be realized in the future would be in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded. This adjustment would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should it be determined that all or part of the net deferred tax asset would not be realized in the future, an adjustment to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be charged to income in the period such determination is made. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and practicable tax planning strategies are considered. During fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively, we recorded a decrease of $2.6 million and $29.0 million, and in fiscal 2013, we recorded an increase of $6.6 million to our valuation allowance. Stock-based Compensation and Equity Instrument issued pursuant to BEE transactions Stock-based compensation Management is required to make estimates and assumptions related to our valuation and recording of stock-based compensation charges under current accounting standards. These standards require all share-based compensation to employees to be recognized in the statement of operations based on their respective grant date fair values over the requisite service periods and also requires an estimation of forfeitures when calculating compensation expense. We utilize the Cox Ross Rubinstein binomial model to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors and recognize compensation cost on a straight line basis. Option-pricing models require estimates of a number of key valuation inputs including expected volatility, expected dividend yield, expected term and risk-free interest rate. Our management has estimated forfeitures based on historic employee behavior under similar compensation plans. The fair value of stock options is affected by the assumptions selected. Net stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations was $3.2 million, $3.7 million and $3.9 million for fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Equity instruments We recorded non-cash charges of $11.3 million associated with the issuance of equity instruments as part of the BEE transactions during fiscal 2014, as these equity instruments were fully vested in that year. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable related to our Financial inclusion and applied technologies and international transaction-based activities segments as a result of sales or rental of hardware, support and maintenance services provided; or sale of licenses to customers; or the provision of transaction processing services to our customers. Our policy is to regularly review the aging of outstanding amounts due from customers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of the amounts outstanding. Management considers factors including period outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers, past payment history and the results of discussions by our credit department with the customer. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. Additional provisions may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these receivables, including on-going evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. UEPS-based lending We created an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable related to our Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment as a result of UEPS-based loans provided to our customers. Our policy is to regularly review the ageing of outstanding amounts due from borrowers and adjust the provision based on managements estimate of the recoverability of finance loans receivable. We write off UEPS-based loans and related service fees if a borrower is in arrears with repayments for more than three months or dies. Management considers factors including the period of the UEPS-loan outstanding, creditworthiness of the customers and the past payment history and trends of its established UEPS-based lending book. We consider this policy to be appropriate taking into account factors such as historical bad debts, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. 40 Additional allowances may be required should the ability of our customers to make payments when due deteriorate in the future. A significant amount of judgment is required to assess the ultimate recoverability of these finance loan receivables, including on-going evaluation of the creditworthiness of each customer. Research and Development Accounting standards require product development costs to be charged to expenses as incurred until technological feasibility is attained. Technological feasibility is attained when our software has completed system testing and has been determined viable for its intended use. The time between the attainment of technological feasibility and completion of software development has been short. Accordingly, we did not capitalize any development costs during the years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 or 2013, particularly because the main part of our development is the enhancement and upgrading of existing products. Costs to develop software for our internal use is expensed as incurred, except to the extent that these costs are incurred during the application development stage. All other costs including those incurred in the project development and post-implementation stages are expensed as incurred. A significant amount of judgment is required to separate research costs, new development costs and ongoing development costs based as the transition between these stages. A multitude of factors need to be considered by management, including an assessment of the state of readiness of the software and the existence of markets for the software. The possibility of capitalizing development costs in the future may have a material impact on the groups profitability in the period when the costs are capitalized, and in subsequent periods when the capitalized costs are amortized. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements adopted Refer to Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2015 Refer to Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2015, including the expected dates of adoption and effects on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Currency Exchange Rate Information Actual exchange rates The actual exchange rates for and at the end of the periods presented were as follows: Table 1 Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 ZAR : $ average exchange rate 11.4494 10.3798 8.8462 Highest ZAR : $ rate during period 12.5779 11.2579 10.3587 Lowest ZAR : $ rate during period 10.5128 9.6259 8.0444 Rate at end of period 12.2854 10.5887 9.8925 KRW : $ average exchange rate 1,078 1,068 1,112 Highest KRW : $ rate during period 1,139 1,147 1,162 Lowest KRW : $ rate during period 1,009 1,014 1,019 Rate at end of period 1,128 1,014 1,144 41 42 Translation Exchange Rates We are required to translate our results of operations from ZAR to U.S. dollars on a monthly basis. Thus, the average rates used to translate this data for the years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013, vary slightly from the averages shown in the table above. The translation rates we use in presenting our results of operations are the rates shown in the following table: Year ended Table 2 June 30, 2015 2014 2013 Income and expense items: $1 = ZAR 11.4275 10.3966 8.7105 Income and expense items: $1 = KRW 1,073 1,049 1,072 Balance sheet items: $1 = ZAR 12.2854 10.5887 9.8925 Balance sheet items: $1 = KRW 1,128 1,014 1,144 Results of Operations The discussion of our consolidated overall results of operations is based on amounts as reflected in our audited consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We analyze our results of operations both in U.S. dollars, as presented in the consolidated financial statements, and supplementally in ZAR, because ZAR is the functional currency of the entities which contribute the majority of our profits and is the currency in which the majority of our transactions are initially incurred and measured. Due to the significant impact of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and ZAR on our reported results and because we use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency, we believe that the supplemental presentation of our results of operations in ZAR is useful to investors to understand the changes in the underlying trends of our business. Our operating segment revenue presented in Results of operations by operating segment represents total revenue per operating segment before intercompany eliminations. A reconciliation between total operating segment revenue and revenue presented in our consolidated financial statements is included in Note 23 to those statements. Fiscal 2015 results exclude MediKredit and NUETS business from July 1, 2014. Fiscal 2013 results include SmartSwitch Botswana from December 1, 2012 and N1MS from September 1, 2012. Refer also to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Fiscal 2015 Compared to Fiscal 2014 The following factors had an influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2015 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Unfavorable impact from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the ZAR: The U.S. dollar appreciated by 10% against the ZAR during fiscal 2015 which negatively impacted our reported results; Continued growth in financial inclusion services: We continued to expand our financial inclusion service offerings during fiscal 2015, which resulted in higher revenues and operating income from more sales of low-margin prepaid airtime and UEPS-based lending; Increased contribution by KSNET: Our results were positively impacted by growth in our Korean operations; Increase in the number of SASSA grants paid: Our revenue and operating income increased as a result of the higher number of SASSA UEPS/EMV cardholders paid during fiscal 2015 compared with 2014; $26.6 million recovery of expenses in fiscal 2014: During fiscal 2014, we received approximately $26.6 million, or approximately $19.1 million, net of tax, from SASSA related to the recovery of additional implementation costs incurred during the beneficiary re-registration process in fiscal 2012 and 2013; Fair value charge resulting from issue of equity instruments pursuant to BEE transactions in fiscal 2014: The fair value non-cash charge of $11.3 million related to our BEE transactions adversely impacted our reported results during fiscal 2014; and Lower DOJ and SEC investigation-related expenses: We incurred DOJ and SEC investigation-related expenses of $0.2 million during fiscal 2015 compared to $3.9 million during 2014. Consolidated overall results of operations This discussion is based on the amounts which were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 43 The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: In United States Dollars Table 3 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 625,979 581,656 8% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 297,856 260,232 14% Selling, general and administration 158,919 168,072 (5% ) Equity instruments issued pursuant to BEE transactions - 11,268 nm Depreciation and amortization 40,685 40,286 1% Operating income 128,519 101,798 26% Interest income 16,355 14,817 10% Interest expense 4,456 7,473 (40% ) Income before income taxes 140,418 109,142 29% Income tax expense 44,136 39,379 12% Net income before income from equity-accounted investments 96,282 69,763 38% Income from equity-accounted investments 452 298 52% Net income 96,734 70,061 38% Less (add) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interest 1,999 (50 ) nm Net income attributable to Net1 94,735 70,111 35% In South African Rand Table 4 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 ZAR ZAR % 000 000 change Revenue 7,153,375 6,047,244 18% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 3,403,749 2,705,528 26% Selling, general and administration 1,816,047 1,745,784 4% Equity instruments issued pursuant to BEE transactions - 118,740 nm Depreciation and amortization 464,928 418,838 11% Operating income 1,468,651 1,058,354 39% Interest income 186,897 154,046 21% Interest expense 50,921 77,694 (34% ) Income before income taxes 1,604,627 1,134,706 41% Income tax expense 504,364 409,408 23% Net income before income from equity-accounted investments 1,100,263 725,298 52% Income from equity-accounted investments 5,165 3,098 67% Net income 1,105,428 728,396 52% Less (add) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interest 22,844 (520 ) nm Net income attributable to Net1 1,082,584 728,916 49% The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher contributions from our financial inclusion products and growth at KSNET. These increases were offset by the recovery of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract received in 2014. The increase in cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support was primarily due to higher expenses incurred from increased usage of the South African National Payment System by beneficiaries and more prepaid airtime sold. In ZAR, our selling, general and administration expense increased due to increases in goods and services purchased from third parties. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2015 and 2014 was 21% and 18%, respectively. We discuss the components of operating income margin under Results of operations by operating segment. The increase is primarily attributable to higher transaction volumes in South Africa, including prepaid airtime sales, lending and SASSA grants paid. The grant date fair value of the equity instruments issued pursuant to our December 2014 BEE transactions was $11.3 million (ZAR 118.7 million) and was expensed in full in fiscal 2014. 44 Depreciation and amortization were higher primarily as a result of an increase in depreciation related to more terminals used to provide transaction processing in Korea and the roll-out of ATMs in South Africa, which was partially offset by no Eason intangible asset amortization as these intangible assets were fully amortized at the end of June 2014. Interest on surplus cash increased to $16.4 million (ZAR 186.9 million) from $14.8 million (ZAR 154.0 million), due primarily to higher average daily ZAR cash balances. Interest expense decreased to $4.5 million (ZAR 50.9 million) from $7.5 million (ZAR 77.7 million), due to a lower average long-term debt balance on our South Korean debt and a lower interest rate. Fiscal 2015 tax expense was $44.1 million (ZAR 504.4 million) compared to $39.4 million (ZAR 409.4 million) in fiscal 2014. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2015, was 31.4% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including consulting and legal). Our effective tax rate for the fiscal 2014, was 36.1% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including the expense related to the equity instruments issued pursuant to our BEE transactions, interest expense related to our long-term South Korean borrowings and stock-based compensation charges). Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating income are illustrated below Table 5 In United States Dollars (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2015 % of 2014 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 236,452 38% 261,577 45% (10% ) International transaction processing 164,554 26% 152,725 26% 8% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 272,600 44% 207,595 36% 31% Subtotal: Operating segments 673,606 108% 621,897 107% 8% Intersegment eliminations (47,627 ) (8% ) (40,241 ) (7% ) 18% Consolidated revenue 625,979 100% 581,656 100% 8% Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 51,008 40% 61,401 60% (17% ) International transaction processing 26,805 21% 21,952 22% 22% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 72,725 57% 60,685 60% 20% Subtotal: Operating segments 150,538 118% 144,038 142% 5% Corporate/Eliminations (22,019 ) (18% ) (42,240 ) (42% ) (48% ) Consolidated operating income 128,519 100% 101,798 100% 26% Table 6 In South African Rand (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 ZAR % of ZAR % of % Operating Segment 000 total 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 2,702,055 38% 2,719,511 45% (1% ) International transaction processing 1,880,441 26% 1,587,821 26% 18% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 3,115,137 44% 2,158,282 36% 44% Subtotal: Operating segments 7,697,633 108% 6,465,614 107% 19% Intersegment eliminations (544,258 ) (8% ) (418,370 ) (7% ) 30% Consolidated revenue 7,153,375 100% 6,047,244 100% 18% Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 582,894 40% 638,362 60% (9% ) International transaction processing 306,314 21% 228,226 22% 34% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 831,065 57% 630,918 60% 32% Subtotal: Operating segments 1,720,273 118% 1,497,506 142% 15% Corporate/Eliminations (251,622 ) (18% ) (439,152 ) (42% ) (43% ) Consolidated operating income 1,468,651 100% 1,058,354 100% 39% 45 South African transaction processing In ZAR, revenue increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 (after excluding the impact of the recovery in fiscal 2014 of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract). The increase in segment revenues exclusive of such recovery was primarily due to more low-margin transaction fees generated from beneficiaries using the South African National Payment System and more inter-segment transaction processing activities. In addition, revenue from the distribution of social welfare grants grew modestly during the year and was in-line with the increase in unique welfare cardholder recipients, net of removal of invalid and fraudulent beneficiaries, offset by the loss of MediKredit revenue as a result of the sale of that business. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2015 and 2014 was 22% and 23%, respectively. Our operating margin for fiscal 2014 was positively impacted by the recovery of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract. Excluding the impact of this $26.6 million recovery from SASSA, our operating income margin for fiscal 2014 was 15%. Our fiscal 2015 operating income margin is higher than our adjusted fiscal 2014 operating income margin (of 15%) due to more higher-margin inter-segment transaction processing activities, the elimination of MediKredit losses and an increase in the number of beneficiaries paid in fiscal 2015. International transaction-based activities Revenue increased primarily due to higher transaction volume at KSNET during fiscal 2015. Operating income during fiscal 2015 was higher due to increase in revenue contribution from KSNET, but partially offset by ZAZOO start-up costs in the UK and India. Operating income and margin for fiscal 2015, was also positively impacted by a refund of approximately $1.7 million that had been paid several years ago in connection with industry-wide litigation that has now been finalized. Operating income margin for fiscal 2015 and 2014 was 16% and 14%, respectively, and was higher in fiscal 2015 primarily due to the refund referred to above. Financial inclusion and applied technologies Financial inclusion and applied technologies revenue and operating income increased primarily due to higher prepaid airtime sales driven by the rollout of our prepaid airtime product, an increase in the number of UEPS-based loans as we rolled out our product nationally, and, in ZAR, an increase in intersegment revenues. Fiscal 2014 operating income includes expenses related to the national rollout of our UEPS-based lending offering and the establishment of the allowance for doubtful finance loans in fiscal 2014. Smart Life did not contribute to operating income in fiscal 2015 and 2014 due to the FSB suspension of its license. The South African National Credit Act, or NCA, made certain industry-wide amendments, which became effective March 13, 2015. These amendments were introduced primarily to address over-indebtedness of South African consumers and now require lenders to perform a stricter affordability assessment. We expect that compliance with the amended legislation will continue to have a modest impact on our UEPS-based lending business in fiscal 2016. Notwithstanding the national rollout expenses incurred in fiscal 2014, operating income margin for the Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment decreased to 27% from 29%, primarily as a result of more low-margin prepaid airtime and the sale of competitively-priced financial inclusion products to address the needs of the broader market. Corporate/ Eliminations The decrease in our corporate expenses was primarily due to the non-cash charge in fiscal 2014 related to the equity instruments issued pursuant to our BEE transactions, lower U.S. government investigations-related and U.S. lawsuit expenses, audit fees and other corporate head office-related expenses. Our corporate expenses also include acquisition-related intangible asset amortization; expenditure related to compliance with Sarbanes; non-employee directors fees; employee and executive bonuses; stock-based compensation; audit fees; directors and officers insurance premiums; telecommunications expenses; property-related expenditures including utilities, rental, security and maintenance; and elimination entries. 46 Fiscal 2014 Compared to Fiscal 2013 The following factors had an influence on our results of operations during fiscal 2014 as compared with the same period in the prior year: Unfavorable impact from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the ZAR: The U.S. dollar appreciated by 19% against the ZAR during fiscal 2014 which negatively impacted our reported results; $26.6 million recovery of expenses and 2013 implementation costs: During fiscal 2014 we received approximately $26.6 million, or approximately $19.1 million, net of tax, from SASSA related to the recovery of additional implementation costs incurred during the beneficiary re-registration process in fiscal 2012 and 2013. Fiscal 2013 results include implementation-related expenditure, including smart card costs, of approximately $66.5 million; Fair value charge resulting from issue of equity instruments pursuant to BEE transactions: The fair value non-cash charge of $11.3 million related to our BEE transactions adversely impacted our reported results during fiscal 2014; Increased contribution by KSNET: Our results were positively impacted by growth in our South Korean operations; Higher revenue resulting from an increase in low-margin prepaid airtime sales: Our revenue has increased as a result of the growth of our prepaid airtime offering during fiscal 2014, which has lower margins compared with our other South African businesses; National rollout of our financial services offering: We continued the national rollout of our financial services offering during fiscal 2014, which resulted in higher revenue from UEPS-based lending. Profitability in the Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment however was lower due to rollout costs, including hiring and training of additional staff and infrastructure deployment as well as the creation of an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable; Ad hoc hardware sales in fiscal 2014: We sold more terminals and cards during fiscal 2014 as a result of ad hoc orders received from our customers; Lower DOJ and SEC investigation-related expenses: We incurred DOJ and SEC investigation-related expenses of $3.9 million during fiscal 2014 compared to $5.9 million during 2013; and Fiscal 2013 bad debt provision: In fiscal 2013 we provided $2.3 million related to the expired NUETS Iraqi customer contracts. Consolidated overall results of operations This discussion is based on the amounts which were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following tables show the changes in the items comprising our statements of operations, both in U.S. dollars and in ZAR: In United States Dollars Table 7 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2014 2013 % $ 000 $ 000 change Revenue 581,656 452,147 29% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 260,232 196,834 32% Selling, general and administration 168,072 191,552 (12% ) Equity instruments issued pursuant to BEE transactions 11,268 - nm Depreciation and amortization 40,286 40,599 (1% ) Operating income 101,798 23,162 340% Interest income 14,817 12,083 23% Interest expense 7,473 7,966 (6% ) Income before income taxes 109,142 27,279 300% Income tax expense 39,379 14,656 169% Net income before income from equity-accounted investments 69,763 12,623 453% Income from equity-accounted investments 298 351 (15% ) Net income 70,061 12,974 440% Add net loss attributable to non-controlling interest (50 ) (3 ) nm Net income attributable to Net1 70,111 12,977 440% 47 In South African Rand Table 8 (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2014 2013 ZAR ZAR % 000 000 change Revenue 6,047,244 3,938,426 54% Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 2,705,528 1,714,523 58% Selling, general and administration 1,745,784 1,668,514 5% Equity instruments issued pursuant to BEE transactions 118,740 - nm Depreciation and amortization 418,838 353,637 18% Operating income 1,058,354 201,752 425% Interest income 154,046 105,249 46% Interest expense 77,694 69,388 12% Income before income taxes 1,134,706 237,613 378% Income tax expense 409,408 127,661 221% Net income before income from equity-accounted investments 725,298 109,952 560% Income from equity-accounted investments 3,098 3,057 1% Net income 728,396 113,009 545% Add net loss attributable to non-controlling interest (520 ) (26 ) nm Net income attributable to Net1 728,916 113,035 545% The increase in revenue was primarily due to the recovery of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract, a higher contribution from KSNET, more low-margin transaction fees generated from beneficiaries using the South African National Payment System, higher prepaid airtime sales driven by the rollout of our prepaid airtime product, an increase in the number of UEPS-based loans and more ad hoc terminal and card sales. The increase in cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support was primarily due to higher expenses incurred from increased usage of the South African National Payment System by beneficiaries and higher prepaid airtime, terminal and card sales. These increases were offset by the substantial elimination of expenses related to our SASSA contract implementation, which we completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. In USD, our selling, general and administration expense decreased due to the substantial elimination of SASSA contract implementation costs and lower legal fees in connection with the U.S. government investigations in the current year, which was offset by increases in goods and services purchased from third parties. Our operating income margin for fiscal 2014 and 2013 was 18% and 5%, respectively. We discuss the components of operating income margin under Results of operations by operating segment. The increase is primarily attributable to the recovery of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract and the substantial elimination of implementation costs in fiscal 2014, and was partially offset by the non-cash charge related to the equity instruments issued pursuant to our BEE transactions. The grant date fair value of the equity instruments issued pursuant to our December 2013 BEE transactions was $11.3 million (ZAR 118.7 million) and was expensed in full in fiscal 2014. In ZAR, depreciation and amortization were higher primarily as a result of an increase in depreciation related to assets used to service our obligations under our SASSA contract, which was partially offset by no MediKredit and FIHRST intangible asset amortization as the these intangible assets were fully amortized at the end of June 2013. Interest on surplus cash increased to $14.8 million (ZAR 154.0 million) from $12.1 million (ZAR 105.2 million), due primarily to higher average daily ZAR cash balances. In U.S. dollars, interest expense decreased to $7.5 million (ZAR 77.7 million) from $8.0 million (ZAR 69.4 million), due to a lower average long-term debt balance on our South Korean debt as well as lower interest rate resulting from our refinancing concluded in October 2013. Fiscal 2014 tax expense was $39.4 million (ZAR 409.4 million) compared to $14.7 million (ZAR 127.7 million) in fiscal 2013. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2014, was 36.1% and was higher than the South African statutory rate as a result of non-deductible expenses (including the expense related to the equity instruments issued pursuant to our BEE transactions, interest expense related to our long-term South Korean borrowings and stock-based compensation charges). 48 Our effective tax rate for the fiscal 2013, was 53.7% and was higher than the South African statutory rate primarily as a result of non-deductible expenses (including interest expense related to our long-term South Korean borrowings and stock-based compensation charges) and South African dividend withholding taxes. Results of operations by operating segment The composition of revenue and the contributions of our business activities to operating income are illustrated below Table 9 In United States Dollars (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2014 % of 2013 % of % Operating Segment $ 000 total $ 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 261,577 45% 242,739 54% 8% International transaction processing 152,725 26% 135,954 30% 12% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 207,595 36% 108,001 24% 92% Subtotal: Operating segments 621,897 107% 486,694 108% 28% Intersegment eliminations (40,241 ) (7% ) (34,547 ) (8% ) 16% Consolidated revenue 581,656 100% 452,147 100% 29% Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 61,401 60% (21,316 ) (92% ) nm International transaction processing 21,952 22% 14,208 61% 55% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 60,685 60% 57,491 248% 6% Subtotal: Operating segments 144,038 142% 50,383 217% 186% Corporate/Eliminations (42,240 ) (42% ) (27,221 ) (117% ) 55% Consolidated operating income 101,798 100% 23,162 100% 340% Table 10 In South African Rand (U.S. GAAP) Year ended June 30, 2014 2013 ZAR % of ZAR % of % Operating Segment 000 total 000 total change Revenue: South African transaction processing 2,719,511 45% 2,114,378 54% 29% International transaction processing 1,587,821 26% 1,184,227 30% 34% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 2,158,282 36% 940,743 24% 129% Subtotal: Operating segments 6,465,614 107% 4,239,348 108% 53% Intersegment eliminations (418,370 ) (7% ) (300,922 ) (8% ) 39% Consolidated revenue 6,047,244 100% 3,938,426 100% 54% Operating income (loss): South African transaction processing 638,362 60% (185,673 ) (92% ) nm International transaction processing 228,226 22% 123,759 61% 84% Financial inclusion and applied technologies 630,918 60% 500,775 248% 26% Subtotal: Operating segments 1,497,506 142% 438,861 217% 241% Corporate/Eliminations (439,152 ) (42% ) (237,109 ) (117% ) 85% Consolidated operating income 1,058,354 100% 201,752 100% 425% South African transaction processing In ZAR, the increase in segment revenues was primarily due the recovery of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract and more low-margin transaction fees generated from beneficiaries using the South African National Payment System. In addition, revenue from the distribution of social welfare grants grew modestly during the year and was in-line with the increase in unique welfare cardholder recipients, net of removal of invalid and fraudulent beneficiaries. Our operating income (loss) margin for fiscal 2014 and 2013 was 23% and (9)%, respectively, and has increased primarily due to the recovery of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract and the substantial elimination of SASSA implementation costs in fiscal 2014. 49 International transaction-based activities Revenue increased primarily due to higher transaction volume at KSNET during fiscal 2014 but was partially offset by the expiration and non-renewal of NUETS contract with its Iraqi customer in the third quarter of fiscal 2013. Operating income during fiscal 2014 was higher due to increase in revenue contribution from KSNET, but partially offset by the loss of the NUETS Iraqi contract as well as ongoing losses related to our XeoHealth launch in the United States. Operating income margin for the segment is lower than for most of our South African transaction processing businesses. Operating income margin for the year to date fiscal 2014 and 2013 was 14% and 10%, respectively. Financial inclusion and applied technologies Financial inclusion and applied technologies revenue and operating income increased primarily due to higher prepaid airtime sales driven by the rollout of our prepaid airtime product, an increase in the number of UEPS-based loans as we rolled out our product nationally, an increase in intersegment revenues and more ad hoc terminal and smart card sales. The increase in operating income was partially offset by UEPS-based lending national rollout expenses and the establishment of the allowance for doubtful finance loans. Smart Life did not contribute to operating income in fiscal 2014 due to the FSB suspension of our license. Operating income margin for the Financial inclusion and applied technologies segment decreased to 29% from 53%, primarily as a result of more low-margin prepaid airtime and hardware sales. Corporate/ Eliminations The increase in our corporate expenses resulted primarily from the non-cash charge related to the equity instruments issued pursuant to our BEE transactions, increases in general corporate audit fees, executive emoluments and other corporate head office-related expenses purchased from third parties, partially offset by lower U.S. government investigation expenses. Our corporate expenses also include acquisition-related intangible asset amortization; expenditure related to compliance with Sarbanes; non-employee directors fees; employee and executive bonuses; stock-based compensation; audit fees; directors and officers insurance premiums; telecommunications expenses; property-related expenditures including utilities, rental, security and maintenance; and elimination entries. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2015, our cash balances were $117.6 million, which comprised ZAR-denominated balances of ZAR 1.3 billion ($104.8 million), KRW-denominated balances of KRW 7.9 billion ($7.0 million) and U.S. dollar-denominated balances of $4.0 million and other currency deposits, primarily euro, of $1.8 million. The increase in our cash balances from June 30, 2014, was primarily due to the expansion of all of our core businesses, and to a lesser extent, to the cash conservation resulting from the sale of loss-incurring businesses, offset by provisional tax payments, investments, capital expenditures and the scheduled Korean debt repayment in October 2014. We currently believe that our cash and credit facilities are sufficient to fund our future operations for at least the next four quarters. We generally invest the surplus cash held by our South African operations in overnight call accounts that we maintain at South African banking institutions, and surplus cash held by our non-South African companies in the U.S. and European money markets. We have invested surplus cash in South Korea in short-term investment accounts at South Korean banking institutions. In addition, we are required to invest the interest payable under our South Korean debt facilities due in the next six months in an interest reserve account in South Korea. Historically, we have financed most of our operations, research and development, working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions through our internally generated cash. When considering whether to borrow under our financing facilities, we consider the cost of capital, cost of financing, opportunity cost of utilizing surplus cash and availability of tax efficient structures to moderate financing costs. We have a short-term South African credit facility with Nedbank Limited of ZAR 400 million ($32.6 million), which consists of (i) a primary amount of up to ZAR 200 million, which is immediately available, and (ii) a secondary amount of up to ZAR 200 million, which is not immediately available. The primary amounts comprises an overdraft facility of up to ZAR 50 million and indirect and derivative facilities of up to ZAR 150 million, which includes letters of guarantee, letters of credit and forward exchange contracts. 50 As of June 30, 2015, we have used none of the overdraft and ZAR 139.6 million ($11.4 million) of the indirect and derivative facilities to obtain foreign exchange contracts and to support guarantees issued by Nedbank to various third parties on our behalf. Refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for more information about the terms of this facility. As of June 30, 2015, we had outstanding long-term debt of KRW 67.3 billion (approximately $59.6 million translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2015) under credit facilities with a group of South Korean banks. The loans bear interest at the South Korean CD rate in effect from time to time (1.80% as of June 30, 2015) plus a margin of 3.10% for one of the term loan facilities and the revolver and a margin of 2.90% for the other term loan facility. We repaid the KRW 15 billion other term loan facility in full in October 2014 in accordance with the repayment schedule. Scheduled remaining repayments of the term loans and loan under the revolving credit facility are as follows: April 2016, 2017 and 2018 (KRW 10 billion each) and October 2018 (KRW 30 billion plus all outstanding loans under our revolving credit facility). Refer to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for more information about the terms of this facility. We have a unique cash flow cycle due to the funding mechanism under our SASSA contact and our pre-funding of certain merchants. We generally receive the grant funds 48 hours prior to the provision of the service in a trust account and any interest we earn on these amounts is for the benefit of SASSA. We are required to initiate payments before the start of the pay cycle month in order to have cash, merchant and interbank funds available when the payment cycle commences and this process requires that we have access to the grant funds to be paid. These funds are recorded as settlement assets and liabilities. Historically, we opened the pay cycle at certain participating merchants a few days before the payment of grants at pay sites, however, currently we do not commence the payment cycle at participating merchants before the start of the pay cycle month. We use our funds to pre-fund certain merchants for grants paid through our merchant acquiring system on our behalf a day or two before the pay cycle opens. We typically reimburse merchants that are not pre-funded within 48 hours after they distribute the grants to the social welfare recipient cardholders. In addition, as a transaction processor, we receive cash from: customers on whose behalf we processes off-payroll payments that we will disburse to customer employees, payroll-related payees and other payees designated by the customer; and credit card companies (as well as other types of payment services) which have business relationships with merchants selling goods and services via the internet in South Korea that are our customers and on whose behalf we process the transactions between various parties and settle the funds from the credit card companies to our merchant customers. These funds do not represent cash that is available to us and we present these funds, and the associated liability, outside of our current assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Movements in these cash balances are presented in investing activities and movements in the obligations are presented in financing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from operating activities for fiscal 2015 increased to $135.3 million (ZAR 1.5 billion) from $37.1 million (ZAR 386.2 million) for fiscal 2014. Excluding the impact of interest received, interest paid under our Korean debt and taxes presented in the table below, the increase in cash from operating activities resulted from improved trading activity during fiscal 2015. During fiscal 2015, we paid interest of $3.6 million under our South Korean debt facility. Cash flows from operating activities for fiscal 2014 decreased to $37.1 million (ZAR 386.2 million) from $55.9 million (ZAR 513.7 million) for fiscal 2013. Excluding the impact of interest paid under our South Korean debt facility and taxes presented in the table below, the decrease in cash from operating activities resulted from the expansion of our UEPS-based lending book, offset by cash inflows from improved trading activity, the recovery of implementation costs from SASSA and the substantial elimination of implementation costs related to our SASSA contract in fiscal 2014. During fiscal 2014, we paid interest of $5.2 million under our South Korean debt facility. During fiscal 2015, we made a first provisional tax payment of $18.9 million (ZAR 217.2 million) and a second provisional tax payment of $16.2 million (ZAR 199.8 million) related to our 2015 tax year in South Africa. We also paid taxes totaling $7.6 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily South Korea. During fiscal 2014, we made a first provisional tax payment of $13.3 million (ZAR 137.8 million) and a second provisional tax payment of $25.0 million (ZAR 266.6 million) related to our 2014 tax year in South Africa. We also paid taxes totaling $3.9 million in other tax jurisdictions, primarily South Korea. 51 Taxes paid during fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Table 11 Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR 000 000 000 000 000 000 First provisional payments 18,910 13,292 6,757 217,241 137,773 58,693 Second provisional payments 16,234 25,004 7,228 199,779 266,573 72,451 Taxation paid related to prior years 2,408 228 3,072 26,395 2,360 25,517 Taxation refunds received (468 ) (36 ) (65 ) (5,396 ) (400 ) (480 ) Dividend withholding taxation 737 - 1,610 8,702 - 14,916 Total South African taxes paid 37,821 38,488 18,602 446,721 406,306 171,097 Foreign taxes paid, primarily South Korea 7,638 3,929 3,298 86,857 41,506 29,468 Total tax paid 45,459 42,417 21,900 533,578 447,812 200,565 We expect to pay additional second provisional payments in South Africa of approximately $3.9 million (ZAR 48.0 million translated at exchange rates applicable as of June 30, 2015) related to our 2015 tax year in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Cash flows from investing activities Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2015 includes capital expenditure of $36.4 million (ZAR 416.4 million), primarily for the acquisition of payment processing terminals in Korea and the rollout of ATMs in South Africa. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2014 includes capital expenditure of $23.9 million (ZAR 248.5 million), primarily for the acquisition of payment processing terminals in South Korea. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2013 includes capital expenditure of $22.7 million (ZAR 198.1 million), primarily for payment vehicles and related equipment for our SASSA contract and acquisition of payment processing terminals in South Korea. During fiscal 2015, we paid $13.2 million for non-controlling interests in businesses based in Nigeria and Hong Kong. During fiscal 2013, we paid, net of cash acquired, $1.9 million (ZAR 16.8 million) for N1MS and $0.2 million for SmartSwitch Botswana. Cash flows from financing activities During fiscal 2015, we made a scheduled Korean debt repayment of $14.1 million, repurchased BVIs remaining 1,837,432 shares of Net1 common stock for approximately $9.2 million, received $1.4 million from BVI for 12.5% of CPS issued and outstanding ordinary shares and paid a dividend of $1.0 million to certain of our non-controlling interests. We also utilized approximately $3.8 million of our Korean borrowings to pay quarterly interest due and received approximately $2.0 million from the exercise of stock options. During fiscal 2014, we refinanced our South Korean debt and used $70.6 million of these new borrowings and $16.4 million of our surplus cash to repay the $87.0 million due under our old facility. In addition, we paid the facility fees related to our new South Korean borrowings of approximately $0.9 million. During fiscal 2014, we utilized approximately $2.1 million of these new borrowings to pay quarterly interest due in South Korea. During fiscal 2014, we paid approximately $2.0 million for substantially all of the shares of KSNET that we did not already own. We utilized our South African short-term facility during fiscal 2014 and have repaid the full amount outstanding as of June 30, 2014. During fiscal 2013, we made a scheduled $14.5 million long-term debt repayment. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. 52 Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures for the years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Table 12 Year ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 $ $ $ ZAR ZAR ZAR Operating Segment 000 000 000 000 000 000 South African transaction processing 7,008 3,425 9,400 80,084 35,608 81,879 International transaction processing 28,205 19,393 12,490 322,312 201,621 108,794 Financial inclusion and applied technologies 1,223 1,088 857 13,976 11,312 7,465 Consolidated total 36,436 23,906 22,747 416,372 248,541 198,138 Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, are discussed under Liquidity and Capital ResourcesCash flows from investing activities. All of our capital expenditures for the past three fiscal years were funded through internally-generated funds. We had outstanding capital commitments as of June 30, 2015, of $3.4 million related mainly to computer equipment required to maintain and expand operations. We expect to fund these expenditures through internally-generated funds. In addition to these capital expenditures, we expect that capital spending for fiscal 2016 will also relate to expanding our operations in South Korea and South Africa. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2015: Table 13 Payments due by Period, as of June 30, 2015 (in $ 000s) Less More than 1 1-3 3-5 than 5 Total year years years years Long-term debt obligations (A) 66,906 3,554 22,409 40,943 - Operating lease obligations 7,176 3,828 2,927 421 - Purchase obligations 5,029 5,029 - - - Capital commitments 3,391 3,391 - - - Other long-term obligations (B) 2,205 - - - 2,205 Total 84,707 15,802 25,336 41,364 2,205 (A) Includes $59.6 million of long-term debt discussed under Liquidity and capital resources and includes interest payable at the rate applicable as of June 30, 2015. (B) Includes policy holder liabilities of $1.2 million related to our insurance business. (C) We have excluded cross-guarantees in the aggregate amount of $11.0 million issued as of June 30, 2015, to Nedbank to secure guarantees it has issued to third parties on our behalf as the amounts that will be settled in cash are not known and the timing of any payments is uncertain. 53