Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCurrency Exchange Rate Information.). Due to the significant fluctuation in the value of the ZAR and its impact on our reported results, you may find it difficult to compare our results of operations between financial reporting periods even though we provide supplemental information about our results of operations determined on a ZAR basis. Similarly, depreciation in the ZAR may negatively impact the prices at which our stock trades. We generally do not engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, other than economic hedging using forward contracts relating to our inventory purchases which are settled in U.S. dollars or euros. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into hedging transactions in the future or, if we do, that these transactions will successfully protect us against currency fluctuations . South Africas high levels of poverty, unemployment and crime may increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain a qualified workforce While South Africa has a highly developed financial and legal infrastructure, it also has high levels of crime and unemployment, relative to peer countries in Africa and other emerging economies, and there are significant differences in the level of economic and social development among its people, with large parts of the population, particularly in rural areas, having limited access to adequate education, healthcare, housing and other basic services, including water and electricity. In addition, South Africa has a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. Government policies aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by the majority of citizens under previous governments may increase our costs and reduce our profitability, all of which could negatively affect our business. These problems may prompt emigration of skilled workers, hinder investment into South Africa and impede economic growth. As a result, we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. 15 We may not be able to effectively and efficiently manage the electricity supply disruptions in South Africa, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth. Our businesses in South Africa are dependent on electricity generated and supplied by the state-owned utility, Eskom, in order to operate, and Eskom has been unable to generate and supply the amount of electricity required which has resulted in significant and often unpredictable electricity supply disruptions. Eskom has implemented a number of short- and long-term mitigation plans to correct these issues but supply disruptions continue to occur regularly and with no predictability. Eskom requires significant funding from the South African government in order to continue to operate. As part of our business continuity programs, we have installed back -up diesel generators in order for us to continue to operate our core data processing facilities in the event of intermittent disruptions to our electricity supply. We have to perform regular monitoring and maintenance of these generators and also source and manage diesel fuel levels. We may also be required to replace these generators on a more frequent basis due to the additional burden placed on them. Our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and future growth could be adversely affected if Eskom is unable raise sufficient funding to operate and/or commission new electricity-generating power stations in accordance with its plans, or at all, or if we are unable to effectively and efficien tly test, maintain, source fuel for, and replace, our generators . The economy of South Africa is exposed to high rates of inflation, interest and corporate tax, which could increase our operating costs and thereby reduce our profitability. Furthermore, the South African government requires additional income to fund future government expenditures and may be required, among other things, to increase existing income taxes rates, including the corporate income tax rate, amend existing tax legislation or introduce additional taxes. The economy of South Africa in the past has been, and in the future may continue to be, characterized by rates of inflation and interest that are substantially higher than those prevailing in the United States and other highly-developed economies. High rates of inflation could increase our South African-based costs and decrease our operating margins. High interest rates increase the cost of our debt financing, though conversely they also increase the amount of income we earn on any cash balances. The South African corporate income tax rate, of 28%, is higher than the U.S. federal income tax rate, of 21%. The South African government has announced a number of programs and initiatives that may require funding from a variety of sources, including from an increase in existing tax rates, including the corporate income tax rate; amendments to existing South African tax legislation; or through the introduction of additional taxes. An increase in the effective South African corporate income tax rate will adversely impact our profitability and cash flow generation. Risks Relating to Government Regulation The South African National Credit Regulator, or NCR, has applied to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd, or Moneyline, as a credit provider. If the registration is cancelled, we may not be able to provide loans to our customers. Moneyline provides microloans to our EPE cardholders. Moneyline is a registered credit provider under the South African National Credit Act, or NCA, and is required to comply with the NCA in the operation of its lending business. In September 2014, based on an investigation it conducted, the NCR applied to the National Consumer Tribunal to cancel Moneylines registration. The NCR has alleged, among other things, that Moneyline contravened the NCA by including child support grants and foster child grants in the affordability assessments performed by Moneyline prior to granting credit to these borrowers, and that the procedures followed and documentation maintained by Moneyline are not in accordance with the NCA. We believe that Moneyline has conducted its business in compliance with NCA and we are opposing the NCRs application. However, if the NCRs application is successful, Moneyline would be prohibited from operating its microlending business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are required to comply with certain laws and regulations, including economic and trade sanctions, which could adversely impact our future growth. We are subject to U.S. and other trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign trade control laws and regulations, including various export controls and economic sanctions programs, such as those administered by OFAC. We monitor compliance in accordance with the 10 principles as set out in the United Nations Global Compact Principles, the Organisation for Economic Co- operation and Development recommendations relating to corruption, and the International Labor Organization Protocol in terms of certain of the items to be monitored. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating trade control law s as well as sanctions regulations. 16 Violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international trade control laws and regulations, including trade controls and sanctions programs administered by OFAC, and provide regular training to our employees to create awareness about the risks of violations of trade control laws and sanctions regulations and to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not act in violation of our policies and these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion in developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships, could increase the risk of OFAC violations in the future. In addition, our payment processing activities are subject to extensive regulation. Compliance with the requirements under the various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. We are required to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the FCPA and UK Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate our business, which could adversely impact our future growth. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business, or securing any improper business advantage, and requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. The UK Bribery Act includes provisions that extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also apply to transactions with individuals not employed by a government and the act is also more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Some of the international locations in which we operate or have investments lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees, agents and business partners comply with the anti-corruption laws and regulations could subject us to substantial penalties, and the requirement that we comply with these laws could put us at a competitive disadvantage against companies that are not required to comply. For example, in many emerging markets, there may be significant levels of official corruption, and thus, bribery of public officials may be a commonly accepted cost of doing business. Our refusal to engage in illegal behavior, such as paying bribes, may result in us not being able to obtain business that we might otherwise have been able to secure or possibly even result in unlawful, selective or arbitrary action being taken against us. Violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have developed policies and procedures as part of a company-wide compliance program that is designed to assist our compliance with applicable U.S. and international anti-corruption laws and regulations, and provide regular training to our employees to comply with these laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, partners, agents or other associated persons will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws and regulations, or that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, or provide a defense to any alleged violation. In particular, we may be held liable for the actions that our local, strategic or joint venture partners take inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation, even if our policies prohibit it, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not have a South African banking license and, therefore, we provide our EPE solution through an arrangement with a third-party bank, which limits our control over this business and the economic benefit we derive from it. If this arrangement were to terminate, we would not be able to operate our EPE business without alternate means of access to a banking license. The South African retail banking market is highly regulated. Under current law and regulations, our EPE business activities require us to be registered as a bank in South Africa or to have access to an existing banking license. We are not currently so registered, but we have an agreement with Grindrod Bank that enables us to implement our EPE program in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If this agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to operate these services unless we were able to obtain access to a banking license through alternate means. We are also dependent on Grindrod Bank to defend us against attacks from other South African banks who may regard our products as disruptive to their funds transfer or other businesses and may seek governmental or other regulatory intervention. Furthermore, we have to comply with the strict anti-money laundering and customer identification regulations of the South African Reserve Bank, or SARB, when we open new bank accounts for our customers and when they transact. Failure to effectively implement and monitor responses to these regulations may result in significant fines or prosecution of Grindrod Bank and ourselves. 17 In addition, the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002, requires persons who act as intermediaries between financial product suppliers and consumers in South Africa to register as financial service providers. Smart Life was granted an Authorized Financial Service Provider, or FSP, license on June 9, 2015, and Moneyline Financial Services (Pty) Ltd and Net1 Mobile Solutions (Pty) Ltd were each granted FSP licenses on July 11, 2017. If our FSP licenses are cancelled, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa. Furthermore, the proposed Conduct of Financial Institutions Bill will make significant changes to the current licensing regime. The second draft of the Conduct of Financial Institutions Bill was published for public comment on 29 September 2020. While the proposals currently indicate that existing licenses will be converted, if we are not successful in our efforts to obtain a conversion of the existing licenses or cannot comply with the new conduct standards to be published at the same time under the Financial Sector Regulation Act, No. 9 of 2017, we may be stopped from continuing our financial services businesses in South Africa. We may be subject to regulations regarding privacy, data use and/or security, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to regulations in a number of the countries in which we operate relating to the processing (which includes, inter alia , the collection, use, retention, security and transfer) of personal information about the people (whether natural or juristic) who use our products and services. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with any regulatory requirements or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Amendments to the NCA were signed into law in South Africa in August 2019. Compliance with these amendments may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. In August 2019, the National Credit Amendment Bill, or debt-relief bill, was signed into law in South Africa. The effective date of the debt-relief bill has not yet been announced. We believe that the debt-relief bill will restrict the ability of financial services providers to provide lending products to certain low-income earners and will increase the cost of credit to these consumers. As a result, compliance with the debt-relief bill may adversely impact our micro-lending operations in South Africa. Furthermore, we expect that it will take us, and other financial services providers, some time to fully understand, interpret and implement this new legislation in our lending processes and practices. Non-compliance with the provisions of this new legislation may result in financial loss and penalties, reputational loss or other administrative punishment. Risks Relating to our Common Stock We may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or Investment Company Act. We are an operating company whose business is focused on developing and offering payment solutions, transaction processing services and financial technologies across multiple industries directly and through our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our conduct, public filings and announcements hold us out as such an operating company and do not hold us out as being engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. However, we own certain assets that may be deemed to be investment securities within the meaning of Section 3(a)(2) of the Investment Company Act. We acquired these assets pursuant to our former business strategy, which involved entering into strategic partnership arrangements with other companies in a number of emerging and developing economies. When we acquired minority interests in these companies, we would typically have board representation or rights with regard to significant decisions. During fiscal 2021, after a comprehensive strategic review, we shifted our strategy to focus primarily on our Southern African operations and other business opportunities in Southern Africa and determined to exit or reduce our presence in other geographies. In furtherance of this strategy and also due to the enormous uncertainties and disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we cancelled our option to acquire an additional 35% interest in Bank Frick (which would have increased our interest to 70%) and disposed of the 35% that we owned. Further, during fiscal 2020, we sold KSNET, our wholly-owned Korean subsidiary, as well as other non- core businesses, which resulted in a large infusion of cash which we have not yet deployed into our operating businesses. These dispositions and the Bank Frick transactions, when combined with the fluctuating value of those of our assets that may be deemed to be investment securities, could cause us to be deemed to be an investment company within the meaning of Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act. Regardless of the value of these assets at any particular time, we believe we should be viewed as primarily engaged in a business other than i nvesting, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities. 18 If we are deemed an investment company and not entitled to an exception or exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act, we would have to register as an investment company, modify our asset profile or otherwise change our business so that it falls outside the definition of an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Registering as an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act could, among other things, materially limit our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions and otherwise would subject us to substantial and costly regulation. Failure to register, if required, would significantly impair our ability to continue to engage in our business and would have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has periodically experienced significant volatility. During the 2021 fiscal year, our stock price ranged from a low of $2.87 to a high of $6.62. We expect that the trading price of our common stock may continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: any adverse developments in litigation or regulatory actions in which we are involved; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar/ZAR exchange rate; announcement of additional BEE transactions, especially one involving the issuance or potential issuance of equity securities or dilution or sale of our existing business in South Africa; quarterly variations in our operating results; significant fair value adjustments or impairment in respect of investments or intangible assets; announcements of acquisitions or disposals; the timing of, or delays in the commencement, implementation or completion of major projects; large purchases or sales of our common stock; and general conditions in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, shares of our common stock can be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies, to expand into new markets and to make acquisitions, all of which may be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. The put right we granted to the IFC Investors on the occurrence of certain triggering events may have adverse impacts on us. In May 2016, we issued an aggregate of 9,984,311 shares of our common stock to the IFC Investors, of which, as of June 30, 2021, the IFC Investors held 7,881,142 shares. We granted the IFC Investors certain rights, including the right to require us to repurchase any share held by the IFC Investors pursuant to the May 2016 transaction upon the occurrence of specified triggering events, which we refer to as a put right. The put price per share will be the higher of the price per share paid to us by the IFC Investors and the volume-weighted average price per share prevailing for the 60 trading days preceding the triggering event, except that with respect to a put right triggered by rejection of a bona fide offer, the put price per share will be the highest price offered by the offeror. If a put triggering event occurs, it could adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. In addition, the existence of the put right could also affect whether or on what terms a third party might in the future offer to purchase our company. Our response to any such offer could also be complicated, delayed or otherwise influenced by the existence of the put right. Approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with those of our other shareholders. There is a concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock because approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock is owned by two shareholders. Based on their most recent SEC filings disclosing ownership of our shares, Value Capital Partners (Pty) Ltd, or VCP, and IFC Investors, beneficially own approximately 22% and 14% of our outstanding common stock, respectively. VCP has agreed, pursuant to an Amended Cooperation Agreement dated December 9, 2020, to refrain from acquiring more than 24.9% of our outstanding common stock or taking certain actions, including acting in concert with others, that could result in a change of control of the Company. These restrictions remain in effect through to the business day immediately following our 2022 annual meeting of shareholders. The interests of VCP and the IFC Investors may be different from or conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result of the significant combined ownership by VCP and the IFC Investors, subject to the limitations applicable to VCP contained in the Amended Cooperation Agreement, they may be able, if they act together, to significantly influence the voting outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, thus depriving shareholders of a premium for their shares, or facilitating a change of control that other shareholders may oppose. 19 We may seek to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of shares of our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of such shares. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies, or to fund acquisitions. Because of the exposure to market risks associated with economies in emerging markets, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and voting power of shares of common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. Issuances of significant amounts of stock in the future could potentially dilute your equity ownership and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We believe that it is necessary to maintain a sufficient number of available authorized shares of our common stock in order to provide us with the flexibility to issue shares for business purposes that may arise from time to time. For example, we could sell additional shares to raise capital to fund our operations or to acquire other businesses, issue shares in a BEE transaction, issue additional shares under our stock incentive plan or declare a stock dividend. Our board may authorize the issuance of additional shares of common stock without notice to, or further action by, our shareholders, unless shareholder approval is required by law or the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The issuance of additional shares could dilute the equity ownership of our current shareholders and any such additional shares would likely be freely tradable, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, especially over companies that we may acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes, we are required to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The requirement to evaluate and report on our internal controls also applies to companies that we acquire. Some of these companies may not be required to comply with Sarbanes prior to the time we acquire them. The integration of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting could require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. If we fail to successfully integrate the operations of these acquired companies into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. While we continue to dedicate resources and management time to ensuring that we have effective controls over financial reporting, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the markets perception of our business and our stock price. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based upon U.S. laws, including federal securities laws or other foreign laws, against us or certain of our directors and officers and experts. While Net1 is incorporated in the state of Florida, United States, the company is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa and substantially all of the companys assets are located outside the United States. In addition, the majority of Net1s directors and all its officers reside outside of the United States and the majority of our experts, including our independent registered public accountants, are based in South Africa. As a result, even though you could effect service of legal process upon Net1, as a Florida corporation, in the United States, you may not be able to collect any judgment obtained against Net1 in the United States, including any judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws, because substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process upon the majority of our directors and officers or upon our experts within the United States or elsewhere outside South Africa and any judgment obtained against any of our foreign directors, officers and experts in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in th e United States and may not be enforced by a South African court. 20 South Africa is not a party to any treaties regarding the enforcement of foreign commercial judgments, as opposed to foreign arbitral awards. Accordingly, a foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which may be enforced by South African courts provided that: the court which pronounced the judgment had international jurisdiction and competence to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); the judgment has not lapsed; the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy in South Africa, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that no award is enforceable unless the defendant was duly served with documents initiating proceedings, that he or she was given a fair opportunity to be heard and that he or she enjoyed the right to be legally represented in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; the judgment was not obtained by improper or fraudulent means; the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or foreign revenue law or any award of multiple or punitive damages; and the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Business Act 99 of 1978 (as amended), of the Republic of South Africa. It has been the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. South African courts have awarded compensation to shareholders who have suffered damages as a result of a diminution in the value of their shares based on various actions by the corporation and its management. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, that does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. Whether a judgment was contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable, or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by a South African court, it will be payable in South African currency. Also, under South Africas exchange control laws, the approval of SARB is required before a defendant resident in South Africa may pay money to a non-resident plaintiff in satisfaction of a foreign judgment enforced by a court in South Africa. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws may be brought before South African courts. A plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. Furthermore, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South African courts. In reaching the foregoing conclusions in respect of South Africa, we consulted with our South African legal counsel, Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc. 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease our corporate headquarters facility which consists of approximately 93,000 square feet in Johannesburg, South Africa. We also lease properties throughout South Africa, including a 12,088 square foot manufacturing facility in Lazer Park, Johannesburg, 257 financial services branches, 76 financial service express stores and 40 satellite branches. We also lease additional office space in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban, South Africa; and Gaborone, Botswana. These leases expire at various dates through 2024, assuming the exercise of options to extend. We believe that we have adequate facilities for our current business operations. 22 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS NCR application for the cancelation of Moneylines registration as a credit provider In September 2014, the NCR applied to the South African National Consumer Tribunal, or Tribunal, to cancel the registration of our subsidiary, Moneyline, for breach of the NCA based on an investigation concluded by it. We raised a number of procedural points in defense and argument on these points was heard on November 27, 2015, before three tribunal members. Two ruled against us and one upheld our points. We are appealing the majority ruling to the High Court. This matter was heard on December 4, 2018, by a full bench of the Pretoria High Court. In opposing this appeal, the NCR contended that our appeal had no basis and they raised, as a procedural point, that we should have joined the Tribunal as a party to the appeal proceedings. On August 30, 2019, it was ordered that the Tribunal be included in the appeal proceedings and this appeal will be heard on October 27, 2021. If we are successful, it will dispose of the application. If we do not prevail, then the NCRs application will be set down before the Consumer Tribunal for argument on the main issues raised by the NCR, as dealt with above. We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. Withdrawal of legal proceedings against a PG Purchasing customer regarding non-payment of working capital finance loans receivable In January 2019, we filed a Petition with the District Court of Dallas County, Texas (Texas district court lawsuit), naming Permian Crude Transport, LP, f/k/a Permian Crude Transport, LLC, d/b/a Permian Transport & Trading (PCT), and Centurion Marketing, LLC d/b/a Jupiter Marketing & Trading, LLC (Centurion and collectively with PCT, PCT/Centurion) as defendants regarding the recovery of working capital finance loans receivable made to PCT/Centurion by our wholly-owned subsidiary, PG Purchasing. This lawsuit was in its initial stages and trial was set for December 2, 2019. However, the Texas district court lawsuit was administratively closed following PCTs filing for bankruptcy in June 2019 and Centurions filing for bankruptcy in July 2019. The Texas district court lawsuit may be re-opened if the PCT/Centurion bankruptcy matters are lifted. However, on December 3, 2020, we filed a notice with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division withdrawing our claim as we do not believe we will be able to successfully recover all or a part of the receivable outstanding within a reasonable period of time and without further undue cost and effort. Litigation related to CPS As a result of significant obligations relating to, and ongoing litigation arising out of, CPS SASSA contract, including the exhaustion of CPS legal appeals against a court judgment to repay additional SASSA implementation costs, CPS has been placed into liquidation. As a result, CPS provisional liquidators are currently in control of all of CPS affairs. No other Net1 group company is a party to any of these proceedings and we are no longer involved in the management of these matters. There are no other material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, to which we are a party or of which any of our property is the subject. 23 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 24 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market information Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, in the United States under the symbol UEPS and on the JSE in South Africa under the symbol NT1. The Nasdaq is our principal market for the trading of our common stock. Our transfer agent in the United States is Computershare Shareowner Services LLC, 480 Washington Blvd, Jersey City, New Jersey, 07310. According to the records of our transfer agent, as of September 3, 2021, there were 9 shareholders of record of our common stock. We believe that a substantially greater number of beneficial owners of our common stock hold their shares though banks, brokers, and other financial institutions (i.e. street name). Our transfer agent in South Africa is JSE Investor Services (Pty) Ltd, 13th Floor, Rennie House, 19 Ameshoff Street, Braamfontein, 2001, South Africa. Dividends We have not paid any dividends on shares of our common stock during our last two fiscal years and presently intend to retain future earnings to finance the expansion of the business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, debt commitments, expansion plans, financial condition and other relevant factors. Issuer purchases of equity securities On February 5, 2020, our board of directors approved the replenishment of our existing share repurchase authorization to repurchase up to an aggregate of $100 million of common stock. The authorization has no expiration date. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during fiscal 2021. 25 Share performance graph The chart below compares the five-year cumulative return, assuming the reinvestment of dividends, where applicable, on our common stock with that of the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Industrial Index. This graph assumes $100 was invested on June 30, 2016, in each of our common stock, the companies in the S&P 500 Index, and the companies in the NASDAQ Industrial Index. 26 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected historical consolidated financial data should be read together with Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following selected historical financial data as of June 30, 2021 and 2020, and for the three years ended June 30, 2021, have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements inclu ded elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected historical consolidated financial data presented below as of June 30, 2019, 2018 and 2017 and for the years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are not included herein, and have been restated as noted below, which restatement is unaudited. The selected historical financial data as of each date and for each period presented have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in any future period. As discussed in Note 1 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, our historical audited consolidated financial statements have been corrected to give effect to a restatement. Accordingly, certain of the selected consolidated financial data presented in the table below has been corrected to give effect to the restatement as indicated. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (in thousands, except per share data) Year ended June 30, 2021 2020 (R)(1) 2019 (R) 2018 2017 (as restated) (as restated) Revenue (3) $ 130,786 $ 144,299 $ 160,635 $ 459,575 $ 456,663 Cost of goods sold, IT processing, servicing and support 96,248 102,308 124,104 243,554 236,179 Selling, general and administration (2) (4) 84,063 75,256 144,920 130,822 124,086 Depreciation and amortisation 4,347 4,647 12,103 10,473 12,679 Impairment loss - 6,336 14,440 20,917 - Operating (loss) income (53,872) (44,248) (134,932) 53,809 83,719 Change in fair value of equity securities 49,304 - (167,459) 32,473 - Termination fee paid to cancel Bank Frick option - 17,517 - - - Interest income 2,416 2,805 5,424 16,845 20,014 Interest expense 2,982 7,641 9,860 8,569 2,174 Impairment of Cedar Cellular note - - 12,793 - - (Loss) Income before income tax expense (benefit) (5,619) (65,016) (319,443) 94,558 101,559 Income tax expense (benefit) 7,560 2,656 (5,072) 45,106 38,175 (Loss) income from equity accounted investments (5) (24,878) (29,542) 1,258 1,810 2,814 Net (loss) income from continuing operations (38,057) (97,214) (313,113) 51,262 66,198 Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operation, net of tax - 12,454 (9,175) - - Net (loss) income attributable to Net1 - continuing operations $ (38,057) $ (97,214) $ (311,761) $ 52,142 $ 64,504 (Loss) Income from continuing operations per share: Basic $ (0.67) $ (1.70) $ (5.49) $ 0.92 $ 1.18 Diluted $ (0.67) $ (1.70) $ (5.49) $ 0.92 $ 1.17 (R) Refer to Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the restatement. (1) Includes the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown restrictions, which directly impacted elements of the business from March 27, 2020 to June 1, 2020. (2) Impacted by expiration of SASSA contract in September 2018. (3) Revenue for the year ended June 30, 2019, includes revenue that has been reversed of $19.7 million (ZAR 277.6 million) as a result of the September 2019 Supreme Court ruling, and selling, general and administration includes $14.3 million (ZAR 201.8 million) of expenses related to the Supreme Court ruling. (4) Includes an allowance for doubtful financial loans receivable of $28.8 million in fiscal 2019 and a separation payment of $8.0 million paid to our former chief executive officer in fiscal 2017. (5) Includes impairments of $21.1 million and $33.8 million in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, as discussed in Note 8 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 27 Additional Operating Data: (in thousands, except percentages) Year ended June 30, 2021 (1) 2020 (1) 2019 (1) 2018 (1) 2017 (1) Cash flows (used in) provided by operating activities $ (58,371) $ (46,045) $ (4,460) $ 132,305 $ 97,161 Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities 47,775 223,117 64,476 180,748 (114,071) Cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities $ (13,081) $ (48,838) $ (24,714) $ (473,479) $ 40,469 Operating (loss) income margin (2) (41.2%) (30.7%) (84.0%) 11.7% 15.9% (1) Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities include movements in settlement assets and cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities include movement in settlement liabilities. (2) Fiscal 2021 operating loss margin was (41.2%). Fiscal 2020 operating loss margin was (25.4%) before impairment losses (refer to Note 9 of our audited consolidated financial statements for a full description of fiscal 2020 and 2019 impairment losses). Fiscal 2019 operating loss margin was (71.1%) before retrenchment costs, the impact of the SASSA implementation costs accrual (refer to Note 12 of our audited consolidated financial statements), and impairment losses. Fiscal 2018 operating income margin was 18.0% before the impairment loss and an allowance for doubtful finance loans receivable. Fiscal 2017 operating income margin was 18.0% before the separation payment of $8.0 million paid to our former chief executive officer. Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: (in thousands) Year ended June 30, 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 223,765 $ 232,485 $ 95,460 $ 57,607 $ 210,396 Total current assets before settlement assets 293,851 311,292 153,285 169,619 369,241 Equity-accounted investments 10,004 65,836 148,427 83,234 25,935 Goodwill 29,153 24,169 37,316 52,799 75,598 Intangible assets 357 612 2,228 9,405 13,666 Total assets 428,330 453,678 670,247 1,214,532 1,448,829 Total current liabilities before settlement obligations 52,024 63,288 155,808 94,090 54,957 Total long-term debt - - - 5,469 - Total equity $ 275,980 $ 290,213 $ 317,342 $ 638,827 $ 596,074 28 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6Selected Financial Data and