ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Certain statements made in this discussion are forward-looking statements within the meaning of 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by the Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used herein, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, future, intend, plan, predict, project, target, potential, will, would, could, should, continue or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks relating to the Companys business, industry, and the Companys operations and results of operations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our condensed consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Risk factors include, by way of example and without limitation: changes in the market acceptance of our products; increased levels of competition; changes in political, economic, or regulatory conditions generally and in the markets in which we operate; our ability to successfully commercialize our products on a large enough scale to generate profitable operations; our ability to maintain and develop relationships with customers and suppliers; our ability to respond to new technological developments quickly and effectively; our ability to protect our trade secrets or other proprietary rights, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or new brands; the impact of competitive products and pricing; supply constraints or difficulties; general economic and business conditions, including inflation, slower growth or recession; business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war, and terrorism or disease outbreaks (such as COVID-19); current and potential material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting; our ability to continue as a going concern; our need to raise additional funds in the future; our ability to successfully recruit and retain qualified personnel; our ability to successfully implement our business plan; our ability to successfully acquire, develop or commercialize new products and equipment; being able to scale our telehealth platform built to improve the experience and medical care provided to patients across the country; intellectual property claims brought by third parties; and the impact of any industry regulation. 27 Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, or performance. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in the future operating results over time except as required by law. We believe that our assumptions are based upon reasonable data derived from and known about our business and operations. No assurances are made that actual results of operations or the results of our future activities will not differ materially from our assumptions. Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our condensed consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and unless otherwise indicated, the terms Company, we, us, and our refer to LifeMD, Inc. (formerly known as Conversion Labs, Inc.), our wholly-owned subsidiary LifeMD PR, LLC (formerly Immudyne PR LLC and Conversion Labs PR), a Puerto Rico limited liability company (Conversion Labs PR, or CLPR), Cleared Technologies PBC, a Delaware public benefit corporation (Cleared) and our majority-owned subsidiary WorkSimpli Software, LLC (formerly known as LegalSimpli Software, LLC), a Puerto Rico limited liability company (WorkSimpli). The affiliated network of medical Professional Corporations and medical Professional Associations administratively led by LifeMD Southern Patient Medical Care, P.C., (LifeMD PC) is the Companys variable interest entity in which we hold a controlling financial interest. Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States (U.S.) dollars. Corporate History We were formed in the State of Delaware on May 24, 1994, under our prior name, Immudyne, Inc. We changed our name to Conversion Labs, Inc. on June 22, 2018 and then subsequently, on February 22, 2021, we changed our name to LifeMD, Inc. Further, in connection with our name change, we changed our trading symbol to LFMD. In June 2018, the Company closed the strategic acquisition of 51% of WorkSimpli, a company that provides a software as a service for converting, editing, signing and sharing PDF documents called PDFSimpli. Effective January 22, 2021, we consummated a transaction to restructure the ownership of WorkSimpli through a series of agreements and concurrently increased our ownership stake in WorkSimpli to 85.58%. Effective September 30, 2022, two option agreements were exercised which further restructured the ownership of WorkSimpli. As a result, the Companys ownership interest in WorkSimpli decreased to 73.64%. Effective March 31, 2023, the Company redeemed 500 membership interest units in WorkSimpli and, as a result, the Companys ownership interest in WorkSimpli increased to 74.06%. On January 18, 2022, the Company acquired Cleared, a nationwide allergy telehealth platform that provides personalized treatments for allergy, asthma, and immunology. Business Overview We are a direct-to-patient telehealth company providing patients a high-quality, cost-effective, and convenient way of accessing comprehensive, virtual healthcare. We believe the traditional model of visiting a doctors office, traveling to a local pharmacy, and returning for follow up care or prescription refills is complex, inefficient, and costly, and discourages many individuals from seeking much needed medical care. LifeMD is positioned to elevate the healthcare experience through telehealth with our proprietary technology platform, affiliated provider network, broad treatment capabilities, and unique ability to nurture patient relationships. The LifeMD telehealth platform seamlessly integrates a clinician-centric electronic medical record (EMR) system, proprietary algorithms for case-load balancing and scheduling, customer relationship management (CRM) functionality, remote and in-home lab testing, and digital prescription capabilities, patient-provider audio/video interfacing, cloud pharmacy fulfillment, and more. Our proprietary technology platform, combined with our 50-state affiliated provider network, enables the management of virtual treatment offerings and complex patient journeys for hundreds of conditions spanning mens and womens health, dermatology, urgent, and primary care, chronic care management and more. Our telehealth offerings in general seek to connect patients to licensed providers for diagnoses, virtual care, and prescription medications when appropriate. We also offer over-the-counter (OTC) products that are complementary to the conditions we treat. Our virtual primary care services are primarily offered on a subscription basis. Our mission is to empower people to live healthier lives by increasing access to high quality and affordable virtual and in-home healthcare. We believe our success has and will continue to be attributable to an amazing patient experience, retaining the highest-quality providers in the industry, and our end-to-end technology platform. We plan to build a diverse portfolio of differentiated telehealth service offerings that meet the needs of a growing and diversified patient base. 28 Since inception, we have helped approximately 715,000 customers and patients, providing them greater access to high-quality, convenient, and affordable care in all 50 states. Total revenue from recurring subscriptions is approximately 91%. In addition to our telehealth business, we own 74.06% of WorkSimpli, which operates PDFSimpli, a rapidly growing software as a service platform for converting, signing, editing, and sharing PDF documents. This business has seen 101% year-over-year revenue growth, with recurring revenue of 98%. Our Platform and Business Strategy We are a patient-centric telehealth company dedicated to delivering seamless end-to-end virtual healthcare to consumers. Our mission is facilitated by our robust technology platform that is purpose-built to seamlessly connect the touchpoints involved in delivering complex care, including scheduling for a national provider network, EMR capabilities, secure synchronous and asynchronous communication, digital prescriptions, cloud pharmacy, and more. Our platform enables us to deliver modern personalized health experiences and offerings through our websites and mobile applications, spanning customer discovery, purchase, and connection with licensed providers, to pharmacy and OTC order fulfillment, through ongoing care. We believe that our seamless approach significantly reduces the complication, cost and time burden of healthcare, incentivizing consumers to stick with our brands. Our proprietary platform also facilitates and accelerates the development and launch of novel offerings throughout clinical protocol establishment, marketing, and fulfillment. Our offerings are sold to consumers on a subscription basis thus creating convenience and discounted pricing opportunities for patients and recurring revenue streams for the Company. Our offerings range from prescription medication fulfilled on a recurring basis, to complementary OTC products, to ongoing care from a team of medical providers. In general, our offerings seek to serve a patient from beginning to end, starting from brand or offering discovery to the medical intake and product selection process, after which a licensed U.S. physician conducts a virtual consultation and determines a treatment plan. As appropriate, prescription medications and OTC products are filled by pharmacy fulfillment partners, and if preferred, shipped directly to the patient. The number of patients and customers we serve across the nation continues to increase at a robust pace, with more than 715,000 individuals having purchased our products and services to date. Serving as a robust CRM system, and with built in analytics and integrations with best-in-class performance marketing platforms, our platform also enhances our ability to effectively and efficiently acquire new patients and customers and drive brand visibility through strategic media placements, influencer partnerships, and direct response advertising methods across highly scalable marketing channels (i.e., national TV, streaming TV, streaming audio, YouTube, podcasts, Out of Home, print, magazines, online search, social media, and digital). We leverage our telehealth technology platform and services across the three core areas described below: Direct-to-Consumer Virtual Primary Care In the first quarter of 2022, we launched our flagship virtual primary care offering under the LifeMD brand, LifeMD PC. This offering provides patients in all 50 states with 24/7 access to an affiliated high-quality provider for their primary care, urgent care, and chronic care needs. LifeMDs virtual primary care offering is a mobile-first full-service destination that provides seamless access to high-quality clinical care including virtual consultations and treatment, prescription medications, diagnostics, and imaging, wellness coaching and more. This offering is also supported by robust partnerships that provide our patients benefits such as substantial discounts on lab work and a prescription discount card that can be presented at over 60,000 pharmacies to save up to 92% on their prescription medication. Direct-to-Patient Telehealth We also leverage our telehealth platforms provider network, cloud pharmacy, and EMR capabilities across our direct-to-patient telehealth brands. Our telehealth brands RexMD, ShapiroMD, NavaMD, and Cleared address largely unaddressed or underserved needs and are leading destinations in their respective treatment verticals of mens health, hair loss, dermatology, and immunology. RexMD is a mens telehealth platform brand that offers access to virtual medical treatment for a variety of mens health needs. After treatment from an affiliated licensed physician, if appropriate, one of our partner pharmacies will dispense and ship prescription medications and OTC products directly to the customer. Since RexMDs initial launch in the erectile dysfunction treatment market, it has expanded into additional indications, including but not limited to, premature ejaculation, testosterone, and hair loss. RexMD is a leading mens telehealth platform across the U.S. and has served more than 410,000 customers and patients since inception with a 4.7-star Trustpilot rating. ShapiroMD offers access to virtual medical treatment, prescription medications, patented doctor formulated OTC products, topical compounded medications, and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved medical devices treating male and female hair loss through our telehealth platform. ShapiroMD has emerged as a leading destination for hair loss treatment across the U.S. and has served more than 260,000 customers and patients since inception with a 4.9-star Trustpilot rating. 29 NavaMD is a female-oriented, tele-dermatology brand that offers access to virtual medical treatment from dermatologists and other providers, and, if appropriate, prescription oral and compounded topical medications to treat dermatological conditions such as aging and acne. In addition to the brands telehealth offerings, NavaMDs proprietary products leverage intellectual property and proprietary formulations licensed from Restorsea, a leading medical grade skincare technology platform. Cleared is a telehealth brand that provides personalized treatments for allergy, asthma, and immunology. Offerings include in-home tests for both environmental and food allergies, prescriptions for allergies and asthma, and FDA-approved immunotherapies for treating chronic allergies. Cleared leverages a network of affiliated medical professionals and providers in all 50 states, various pharmaceutical partners, and treatments and tests that cost up to 50 percent less than the brand-name competition. The offerings include free consultations, prescription medication, complementary OTC products, and ongoing care from U.S.-licensed allergists and nurses. Enterprise Telehealth Offerings Organizations commercializing healthcare products face a challenging commercial landscape. Increased competition, shrinking market sizes and challenges reaching patients via the traditional brick and mortar doctor are forcing pharmaceutical, medical device and diagnostic companies to rethink their commercial strategies and focus more on digital patient awareness and engagement initiatives. Spending on digital solutions to facilitate greater access to their end markets accounts for one-third of their collective $30 billion commercial spend in the U.S. We believe LifeMDs unique telehealth technology platform and virtual clinical expertise is well-positioned to address the unmet needs of healthcare product companies as they relate to digital patient awareness, access to care, adherence and compliance. Majority Owned Subsidiary: WorkSimpli WorkSimpli operates PDFSimpli, an online software as a service platform that allows users to create, edit, convert, sign, and share PDF documents. WorkSimpli was acquired through the purchase of 51% of the membership interests of WorkSimpli Software LLC, a Puerto Rico limited liability company, which operates a marketing-driven software solutions business. In addition to WorkSimplis growth business model, this acquisition added deep search engine optimization and search engine marketing expertise to the Company. On January 22, 2021, the Company consummated a transaction and increased its ownership of WorkSimpli to 85.58%. Effective September 30, 2022, two option agreements were exercised which further restructured the ownership of WorkSimpli. As a result, the Companys ownership interest in WorkSimpli decreased to 73.64%. Effective March 31, 2023, the Company redeemed 500 membership interest units in WorkSimpli and, as a result, the Companys ownership interest in WorkSimpli increased to 74.06%. Significant Developments During the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Amendment to Cleared Stock Purchase Agreement On February 4, 2023, the Company entered into the First Amendment to the Stock Purchase Agreement (the First Amendment) between the Company and the sellers of Cleared. The First Amendment was amended to, among other things: (i) reduce the total purchase price by $250 thousand to a total of $3.67 million; (ii) change the timing of the payment of the purchase price to $460 thousand paid at closing (which has already been paid by the Company), with the remaining amount to be paid in five quarterly installments beginning on or before February 6, 2023 and ending January 15, 2024; (iii) remove all earn-out payments payable by the Company to the sellers; and (iv) removing certain representations and warranties of the Company and sellers in connection with the transaction. On February 6, 2023, the Company issued 337,895 shares of common stock related to the first of five quarterly installment payments due to the sellers of Cleared under the First Amendment. Avenue Capital Credit Facility On March 21, 2023, the Company entered into and closed on a loan and security agreement (the Credit Agreement), and a supplement to the Credit Agreement (the Supplement), with Avenue Venture Opportunities Fund II, L.P. and Avenue Venture Opportunities Fund, L.P. (collectively, Avenue). The Credit Agreement provides for a convertible senior secured credit facility of up to an aggregate amount of $40 million, comprised of the following: (1) $15 million in term loans funded at closing, (2) $5 million of additional committed term loans available in the fourth quarter of 2023 and (3) $20 million of additional uncommitted term loans, collectively referred to as the Avenue Facility. The Avenue Facility matures on October 1, 2026. The Company issued Avenue warrants to purchase $1.2 million of the Companys common stock at an exercise price of $1.24, subject to adjustments (the Warrants). In addition, Avenue may convert up to $2 million of the $15 million in term loans funded at closing into shares of the Companys common stock at any time while the loans are outstanding, at a price per share equal to $1.49. Proceeds from the Avenue Facility were used to repay the Companys outstanding notes payable balances with CRG Financial and are expected to be used for general corporate purposes and at the Companys election, re-financing up to $5 million liquidation value plus accrued interest of the Series B Preferred Stock. 30 Results of Operations Our financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2023 are summarized as follows in comparison to the three months ended March 31, 2022: March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 % of % of $ Sales $ Sales Telehealth revenue, net $ 20,202,803 60.99 % $ 22,598,061 77.81 % WorkSimpli revenue, net 12,923,532 39.01 % 6,444,776 22.19 % Total revenue, net 33,126,335 100 % 29,042,837 100 % Cost of telehealth revenue 3,920,182 11.83 % 5,086,068 17.51 % Cost of WorkSimpli revenue 294,787 0.89 % 162,107 0.56 % Total cost of revenue 4,214,969 12.72 % 5,248,175 18.07 % Gross profit 28,911,366 87.28 % 23,794,662 81.93 % Selling and marketing expenses 16,717,645 50.46 % 21,909,825 75.45 % General and administrative expenses 10,602,763 32.01 % 12,212,743 42.05 % Other operating expenses 1,704,765 5.15 % 1,417,469 4.88 % Customer service expenses 1,555,404 4.70 % 933,307 3.21 % Development costs 1,183,599 3.57 % 428,333 1.47 % Total expenses 31,764,176 95.89 % 36,901,677 127.06 % Operating loss (2,852,810 ) (8.61 )% (13,107,015 ) (45.13 )% Interest expense, net (264,465 ) (0.80 )% (167,934 ) (0.58 )% Loss on debt extinguishment (325,198 ) (0.98 )% - - % Net loss (3,442,473 ) (10.39 )% (13,274,949 ) (45.71 )% Net income attributable to non-controlling interest 565,983 1.71 % 24,726 0.09 % Net loss attributable to LifeMD, Inc. (4,008,456 ) (12.10 )% (13,299,675 ) (45.80 )% Preferred stock dividends (776,563 ) (2.34 )% (776,563 ) (2.67 )% Net loss attributable to common shareholders $ (4,785,019 ) (14.44 )% $ (14,076,238 ) (48.47 )% Total revenue, net. Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were approximately $33.1 million, an increase of 14% compared to approximately $29.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in revenues was attributable to an increase in WorkSimpli revenue of 101%, partially offset by a decrease in telehealth revenue of 11%. Telehealth revenue accounts for 61% of total revenue and has decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to a reduction in online sales demand. WorkSimpli revenue accounts for 39% of total revenue and has steadily increased year over year due to a combination of higher demand, increased market awareness, enhanced digital capabilities, continued marketing campaign expansion and the addition of the ResumeBuild brand in the first quarter of 2022. Total cost of revenue. Total cost of revenue consists of the cost of (1) telehealth revenues, which primarily include product costs, pharmacy fulfillment costs, physician consult fees, and shipping costs directly attributable to our prescription and OTC products and (2) the cost of WorkSimpli revenue consisting primarily of information technology fees related to providing the services made available on our online platform. Total cost of revenue decreased by approximately 20% to approximately $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to approximately $5.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The combined cost of revenue decrease was due to decreased Telehealth sales volume during the three months ended March 31, 2023 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. Telehealth costs decreased to 19% of associated telehealth revenues experienced during the three months ended March 31, 2023, from 23% of associated telehealth revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily due to lower sales volume and improved pricing. WorkSimpli costs were 2% of associated WorkSimpli revenues for the both the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Gross profit. Gross profit increased by approximately 22% to approximately $28.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to approximately $23.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as a result of increased combined sales. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 87% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to 82% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues for telehealth was 81% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to 77% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, and for WorkSimpli was 98% for both the three months ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022. The increase in sales volume for WorkSimpli and improved pricing for Telehealth have contributed to the increase in gross profit. 31 Total expenses. Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were approximately $31.8 million, as compared to approximately $36.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This represents a decrease of 14%, or $5.1 million. The decrease is primarily attributable to: (i) Selling and marketing expenses: This mainly consists of online marketing and advertising expenses. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company had a decrease of approximately $5.2 million, or 24% in selling and marketing costs as a result of a Company-wide strategic reduction in costs and alignment of sales and marketing initiatives to drive the Companys recurring revenue subscription-based sales model. (ii) General and administrative expenses: During the three months ended March 31, 2023, stock-based compensation was $2.7 million, with the majority related to stock compensation expense attributable to service-based stock options and restricted stock units, as compared to stock-based compensation expense of $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This category also consists of merchant processing fees, payroll expenses for corporate employees, taxes and licenses, amortization expense and legal and professional fees. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company had a decrease of approximately $1.6 million in general and administrative expenses, primarily related to the decrease in stock-based compensation costs referenced above and a Company-wide strategic reduction in costs. These decreases in operating expenses were partially offset by increases in the following: (i) Other operating expenses: This consists of rent and lease expense, insurance, office supplies and software subscriptions, royalty expense and bank charges. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company had an increase of approximately $287 thousand, or 20%, primarily related to increases in office supplies and software subscriptions and insurance. (ii) Customer service expenses: This consists of rent, insurance, payroll and benefit expenses related to the Companys customer service department located in South Carolina and Puerto Rico. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company had an increase of approximately $622 thousand, primarily related to increases in headcount in the Companys customer service department. (iii) Development costs: This mainly relates to third-party technology services for developing and maintaining our online platforms. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company had an increase of approximately $755 thousand, primarily resulting from technology platform improvements and amortization expense. Interest expense, net. Interest expense, net consists of interest expense related to the Avenue Facility, notes payable and the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and interest accrued on the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Interest expense increased by approximately $97 thousand during the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. Loss on debt extinguishment. The Company recorded a $325 thousand loss on debt extinguishment related to the repayment of the CRG Financial loan during the three months ended March 31, 2023 due to a prepayment penalty and various fees associated with the CRG Financial loan. Working Capital March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Current assets $ 19,164,769 $ 11,311,357 Current liabilities 27,018,606 31,374,151 Working capital $ (7,853,837 ) $ (20,062,794 ) Working capital increased by approximately $12.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in current assets is primarily attributable to an increase in cash of approximately $7.6 million as a result of the Avenue Facility, an increase in other current assets of $387 thousand, an increase in product deposits of $119 thousand and an increase in accounts receivable of $102 thousand. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in inventory of approximately $321 thousand. Current liabilities decreased by $4.4 million, which was primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $3.8 million and a decrease in notes payable of $975 thousand, partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue of $348 thousand. 32 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,613,938 ) $ (8,091,143 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,811,639 ) (7,378,189 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 11,991,466 (774,063 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash 7,565,889 (16,243,395 ) Since inception, the Company has funded operations through the collections from revenues provided by the sales of its products, issuances of common and preferred stock, receipt of loans and advances from officers and directors, and the issuance of convertible notes to third-party investors. Rising interest rates and inflation may increase the cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to access capital markets. Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared with approximately $8.1 million three months ended March 31, 2022. The significant factors contributing to the cash used in operations during the three months ended March 31, 2023, include the net loss of approximately $3.4 million inclusive of the following: (1) $2.7 million in non-cash stock-based compensation charges, (2) $1.5 million in non-cash depreciation and amortization and (3) a $325 thousand loss on debt extinguishment. Additionally, a decrease in accounts payable and other operating activities of $3.8 million contributed to net cash used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2023. These factors contributing to net cash used in operations were partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue of $348 thousand and an increase in inventory of $321 thousand due to the timing of purchases. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022, was driven primarily by the net loss of approximately $13.3 million inclusive of $4.5 million in non-cash stock-based compensation charges and $530 thousand in non-cash depreciation and amortization, principally offset by the net increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $0.7 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was approximately $1.8 million, as compared with approximately $7.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023, was due to cash paid for capitalized software costs of approximately $1.8 million and cash paid for the purchase of equipment of approximately $32 thousand. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022, was due to cash paid for capitalized software costs of approximately $2.1 million, cash paid for the purchase of the ResumeBuild brand of approximately $4.0 million and cash paid for the Cleared acquisition of approximately $1.0 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was approximately $12.0 million as compared with net cash used in financing activities of approximately $774 thousand for the three months ended March 31, 2022. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities consisted of: (1) $14.5 million in net proceeds received from the Avenue Facility and (2) $2.0 million in proceeds received from the CRG Financial loan. These factors contributing to net cash provided by financing activities were partially offset by repayments of notes payable of approximately $3.3 million net of a $325 thousand loss on debt extinguishment on the CRG Financial loan, preferred stock dividends of approximately $777 thousand, payments made to redeem 500 WorkSimpli membership interest units of approximately $307 thousand, contingent consideration payments made related to the ResumeBuild brand acquisition of approximately $63 thousand and distributions to non-controlling interest of $36 thousand. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022, consisted of preferred stock dividends of $777 thousand and distributions to non-controlling interest of $36 thousand, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of warrants of $38 thousand. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook As of March 31, 2023, the Company has an accumulated deficit approximating $195.3 million and has experienced significant losses from its operations. To date, the Company has been funding operations primarily through the sales of its products, issuance of common and preferred stock and through loans and advances from officers and directors. Our primary short-term and long-term requirements for liquidity and capital are for customer acquisitions, funding business acquisitions and investments we may make from time to time, working capital including our noncancelable operating lease obligations, noncontingent consideration, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. The Company has a current cash balance of approximately $12.8 million as of the filing date. On March 21, 2023, the Company entered into and closed on a Credit Agreement, and a supplement to the Credit Agreement with Avenue. The Credit Agreement provides for a convertible senior secured credit facility of up to an aggregate amount of $40 million, comprised of the following: (1) $15 million in term loans funded at closing, (2) $5 million of additional committed term loans available in the fourth quarter of 2023 and (3) $20 million of additional uncommitted term loans, collectively referred to as the Avenue Facility. The Avenue Facility matures on October 1, 2026. The Company issued Avenue Warrants to purchase $1.2 million of the Companys common stock at an exercise price of $1.24, subject to adjustments. In addition, Avenue may convert up to $2 million of the $15 million in term loans funded at closing into shares of the Companys common stock at any time while the loans are outstanding, at a price per share equal to $1.49. Proceeds from the Avenue Facility were used to repay the Companys outstanding notes payable balances with CRG Financial and are expected to be used for general corporate purposes and at the Companys election, re-financing up to $5 million liquidation value plus accrued interest of the Series B Preferred Stock. 33 During the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company received proceeds of $2 million under a $2.5 million loan facility with CRG Financial, maturing on December 15, 2023. The loan facility includes interest of 12%. The Company repaid the $2 million outstanding loan balance on March 21, 2023 with the proceeds received from the Avenue Facility and recorded a $325 thousand loss on debt extinguishment due to a prepayment penalty and various fees associated with the CRG Financial loan. As of both March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the outstanding balance was $0 related to the CRG Financial loan. In October 2022, the Company received proceeds of $976 thousand under a 12-month working capital loan with Amazon. The terms of the loan include interest in the amount of $62 thousand. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the outstanding balance was $765 thousand and $976 thousand, respectively, and is included in notes payable, net, on the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet. In November 2022, the Company received proceeds of $1.9 million under two 10-month working capital loans with Balanced Management. The terms of the loans include loan origination fees in the amount of $60 thousand and total interest of $840 thousand. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the outstanding balance was $1.058 million and $1.821 million, respectively, and is included in notes payable, net, on the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet. On June 8, 2021, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act, which was declared effective on June 22, 2021 (the 2021 Shelf). Under the 2021 Shelf at the time of effectiveness, the Company originally had the ability to raise up to $150 million by selling common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, and units. In conjunction with the 2021 Shelf, the Company also entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement (the ATM Sales Agreement) with B. Riley Securities, Inc. and Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. relating to the sale of its common stock. In accordance with the terms of the ATM Sales Agreement, the Company may, but is not obligated to, offer and sell, from time to time, shares of common stock, through or to the Agents, acting as agent or principal. Sales of common stock, if any, will be made by any method permitted that is deemed an at the market offering as defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act. On March 22, 2023, the date the Company filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, the Company became subject to the offering limits in General Instruction I.B.6 of Form S-3 (i.e., the baby shelf limitations). As a result of the baby shelf limitations, the Company may only offer and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $18.435 million pursuant to the ATM Sales Agreement, and it filed a prospectus supplement with the SEC to that effect on March 27, 2023. In the event that the Companys public float increases above $75.0 million, the Company will no longer be subject to the baby shelf limitations, in which case the Company will file another prospectus supplement with the SEC prior to making sales pursuant to the ATM Sales Agreement in excess of $18.435 million. As of March 31, 2023, the Company has $18.435 million available under the ATM Sales Agreement. The Companys continued operations are dependent upon obtaining an increase in its sales volumes which the Company has been successful in achieving to date. However, there can be no assurances that we will continue to be successful in increasing revenues, improving operational efficiencies or that financing will be available or, if available, that such financing will be available under favorable terms. The Company reviewed its forecasted operating results and sources and uses of cash used in managements assessment, which included the available financing and consideration of positive and negative evidence impacting managements forecasts, market, and industry factors. The Companys continuance as a going concern is highly dependent on its future profitability and on the on-going support of its stockholders, affiliates, and creditors. Based on these circumstances, management has determined that these conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The Company has begun to implement strategies to strengthen revenues and improve operational efficiencies across the business and is significantly curtailing expenses, however, these strategies do not mitigate the substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Management believes that the overall market value of the telehealth industry is positive and that it will continue to drive interest in the Company. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that the accounting policies below are critical for one to fully understand and evaluate our financial condition and results of operations. 34 Revenue Recognition The Company records revenue under the adoption of ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, by analyzing exchanges with its customers using a five-step analysis: 1. Identify the contract 2. Identify performance obligations 3. Determine the transaction price 4. Allocate the transaction price 5. Recognize revenue For the Companys product-based contracts with customers, the Company has determined that there is one performance obligation, which is the delivery of the product; this performance obligation is transferred at a discrete point in time. The Company generally records sales of finished products once the customer places and pays for the order, with the product being simultaneously shipped by a third-party fulfillment service provider. In some cases, the customer does not obtain control until the product reaches the customers delivery site; in these cases, recognition of revenue is deferred until that time. In all cases, delivery is considered to have occurred when the customer obtains control, which is usually commensurate upon shipment of the product. In the case where delivery is not commensurate upon shipment of the product, recognition of revenue is deferred until that time. In the case of its product-based contracts, the Company provides a subscription sensitive service based on the recurring shipment of products. The Company records the related revenue under the subscription agreements subsequent to receiving the monthly product order, recording the revenue at the time it fulfills the shipment obligation to the customer. For its product-based contracts with customers, the Company records an estimate for provisions of discounts, returns, allowances, customer rebates, and other adjustments for its product shipments and are reflected as contra revenues in arriving at reported net revenues. The Companys discounts and customer rebates are known at the time of sale; correspondingly, the Company reduces gross product sales for such discounts and customer rebates. The Company estimates customer returns and allowances based on information derived from historical transaction detail and accounts for such provisions, as contra revenue, during the same period in which the related revenues are earned. The Company has determined that the population of its product-based contracts with customers are homogenous, supporting the ability to record estimates for returns and allowances to be applied to the entire product-based portfolio population. Customer discounts, returns and rebates on telehealth revenues approximated $331 thousand and $1.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The Company, through its majority-owned subsidiary WorkSimpli, offers a subscription-based service providing a suite of software applications to its subscribers, principally on a monthly subscription basis. The software suite allows the subscriber/user to convert almost any type of document to another electronic form of editable document, providing ease of editing. For these subscription-based contracts with customers, the Company offers an initial 14-day trial period which is billed at $1.95, followed by a monthly subscription, or a yearly subscription to the Companys software suite dependent on the subscribers enrollment selection. The Company has estimated that there is one product and one performance obligation that is delivered over time, as the Company allows the subscriber to access the suite of services for the time period of the subscription purchased. The Company allows the customer to cancel at any point during the billing cycle, in which case the customers subscription will not be renewed for the following month or year depending on the original subscription. The Company records the revenue over the customers subscription period for monthly and yearly subscribers or at the end of the initial 14-day service period for customers who purchased the initial subscription, as the circumstances dictate. The Company offers a discount for the monthly or yearly subscriptions being purchased, which is deducted at the time of payment at the initiation of the contract term; therefore the Contract price is fixed and determinable at the contract initiation. Monthly and annual subscriptions for the service are recorded net of the Companys known discount rates. Customer discounts and allowances on WorkSimpli revenues approximated $912 thousand and $448 thousand, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the Company has accrued contract liabilities, as deferred revenue, of approximately $5.9 million and $5.5 million, respectively, which represent the following: (1) obligations for products which the customer has not yet obtained control due to delivery not commensurate upon shipment of the product, (2) obligations on WorkSimpli in-process monthly or yearly contracts with customers and (3) a portion attributable to the yet to be recognized WorkSimpli initial 14-day trial period collections. Capitalized Software Costs The Company capitalizes certain internal payroll costs and third-party costs related to internally developed software and amortizes these costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, generally three years. The Company does not sell internally developed software other than through the use of subscription service. Certain development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalization, in accordance with ASC 350-40, Internal-Use Software, are expensed as incurred. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the Company capitalized a net amount of $9.5 million and $8.8 million, respectively, related to internally developed software costs which are amortized over the useful life and included in development costs on our statement of operations. The increase in capitalized software costs of $700 thousand or 8%, is primarily attributable to costs incurred related to development efforts of our LifeMD PC platform. 35 Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill in the amount of $8.0 million was recognized in conjunction with the Cleared acquisition. The Company recorded an $8.0 million goodwill impairment charge and an $827 thousand intangible asset impairment charge during the year ended December 31, 2022 related to a decline in the estimated fair value of Cleared as a result of a decline in the Cleared financial projections (see Note 3). Other intangible assets are comprised of: (1) a customer relationship asset, (2) the Cleared trade name, (3) Cleared developed technology, (4) a purchased license and (5) a purchased domain name. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded an $827 thousand impairment loss related to a decline in the estimated fair value of the Cleared customer relationship intangible asset with an original cost of $919 thousand and accumulated amortization of $92 thousand. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated lives using the straight-line method. Costs incurred to renew or extend the term of recognized intangible assets are capitalized and amortized over the useful life of the asset. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets include equipment and capitalized software. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If such assets are considered to be impaired, an impairment is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the estimated fair values of the assets. As of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the Company determined that no events or changes in circumstances existed that would indicate any impairment of its long-lived assets. Recently Adopted Accounting Standards In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which requires an entity to utilize the current expected credit loss (CECL) impairment model to estimate its lifetime expected credit loss and record an allowance that is deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial assets and certain other instruments, including but not limited to available-for-sale debt securities. Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities are recorded through an allowance for credit losses. ASU 2016-13 requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. In November 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-10, Financial InstrumentsCredit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates, which defers the effective date of ASU 2016-13 to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022 for all entities except SEC reporting companies that are not smaller reporting companies. The Company adopted ASU 2016-13 as of January 1, 2023. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In October 2021, the FASB issued ASU No. 2021-08, Business Combinations (Topic 805); Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers. This new guidance affects all entities that enter into a business combination within the scope of ASC 805-10. Under this new guidance, the acquirer should determine what contract assets and/or liabilities it would have recorded under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as of the acquisition date, as if the acquirer had entered into the original contract at the same date and on the same terms as the acquirer. Under current U.S. GAAP, contract assets and contract liabilities acquired in a business combination are recorded by the acquirer at fair value. The Company adopted ASU 2021-08 as of January 1, 2023. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements.