Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited financial statements and the accompanying notes as well as "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth under Risk Factors Part II, Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as those discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, our actual results could differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. LifeStance Health Group, Inc. was formed as a Delaware corporation on January 28, 2021 for the purpose of completing an initial public offering (IPO) and related transactions in order to carry on the business of LifeStance TopCo, L.P. (LifeStance TopCo) and its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated practices. LifeStance Health Group, Inc. wholly-owns the equity interest of LifeStance TopCo and operates and controls all of the business and affairs and consolidates the financial results of LifeStance TopCo and its wholly owned subsidiaries and affiliated practices. Unless the context otherwise indicates or requires, the terms "LifeStance Health Group", "LifeStance Health", "LifeStance", we, and our as used herein refer to LifeStance Health Group and its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated practices. Our Business We are dedicated to improving the lives of our patients by reimagining mental health through a disruptive, tech-enabled in-person and virtual care delivery model built to expand access and affordability, improve outcomes and lower overall health care costs. We are one of the nations largest outpatient mental health platforms based on the number of clinicians we employ through our subsidiaries and our affiliated practices and our geographic scale, employing 4,989 licensed mental health clinicians as of March 31, 2022. We combine a personalized, digitally-powered patient experience with differentiated clinical capabilities and in-network insurance relationships to fundamentally transform patient access to mental health treatment. By revolutionizing the way mental health care is delivered, we believe we have an opportunity to improve the lives and health of millions of individuals. Our model is built to empower each of the healthcare ecosystems key stakeholderspatients, clinicians, payors and primary care and specialist physiciansby aligning around our shared goal of delivering better outcomes for patients and providing high-quality mental health care. Patients - We are the front-door to comprehensive outpatient mental health care. Our clinicians offer patients comprehensive services to treat mental health conditions across the clinical spectrum. Our in-network payor relationships improve patient access by allowing patients to access care without significant out-of-pocket cost or delays in receiving treatment. Our personalized, data-driven comprehensive care meets patients where they are, through convenient virtual and in-person settings. We support our patients throughout their care continuum with purpose-built technological capabilities, including online assessments, digital provider communication, and seamless internal referral and follow-up capabilities. Clinicians - We empower clinicians to focus on patient care and relationships by providing what we believe is a superior workplace environment, as well as clinical and technology capabilities to deliver high-quality care. We offer a unique employment model for clinicians in a collaborative clinical environment, employing our clinicians through our subsidiaries and affiliated practices. Our integrated platform and national infrastructure reduce administrative burdens for clinicians while increasing engagement and satisfaction. Payors - We partner with payors to deliver access to high-quality outpatient mental health care to their members at scale. Long-term analyses demonstrate that $1 spent on collaborative mental health care saves $6.50 in total medical costs, representing a compelling opportunity for us to drive improved health outcomes and significant cost savings. Through our validated patient outcomes and extensive scale, we offer payors a pathway to achieving these savings in the broader healthcare system. Primary care and specialist physicians - We collaborate with primary care and specialist physicians to enhance patient care. Primary care is an important setting for the treatment of mental health conditionsprimary care physicians are often the sole contact for over 50% of patients with a mental illness. We partner with primary care physicians and specialist physician groups across the country to provide a mental healthcare network for referrals and, in certain instances, through co-location to improve the diagnosis and treatment of their patients. Our measurable patient outcomes also provide primary care and specialist physicians with a valuable, validated treatment path to improve the overall health of our mutual patients. 19 COVID-19 Impact With the COVID-19 pandemic placing an unprecedented strain on daily life, existing trends in mental health care have worsened dramatically since the beginning of the pandemic41% of adults reported at least one adverse mental health condition, including symptoms of mental illness or substance abuse related to the pandemic. Quarantining and lockdown measures have resulted in furloughs and layoffs, dramatically increasing stressors and leading to poorer overall mental and physical health. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we took the following actions to ensure the safety of our employees and their families and to address the physical, mental and social health of our patients: Implemented safety protocols including all Center of Disease Control directives in addition to state and local directives. This included distributing COVID-19 guidelines to all clinicians and employees as well as regular global communication from our Chief Medical Officer. Provided support to clinicians and administrative employees in the event they were unable to work due to a quarantine. Trained all of our clinicians to meet patients virtually. Upgraded acquired center websites to allow patients to readily access digital services. Proactively communicated with patients about the availability of clinicians and treatment and appointment reminders. While the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has increased stressors associated with mental health, we believe that a combination of factors contribute to our total patient visits and related revenue, including, among others, long-term trends in reduced stigmatization of mental health. Even before the pandemic, we saw the need to have a platform supported by leading technology to give us the ability to treat patients virtually or in-person. Our prior investment in our technology platform, most notably in our digital capabilities, became an essential component for continuing to deliver care to our patients during the pandemic. We observed an impact on appointments in mid-March 2020 as patients moved to shelter-at-home and increased cancellations. By the end of March 2020, appointments and visits had returned to normal levels. Since then, as the pandemic has surged and waned, we believe there has been some impact due to patient and clinician illness, resulting in cancelations of appointments, deferrals and fewer appointments initially scheduled. However, as we are unable to quantify deferred or appointments that were not scheduled, we are unable to specifically measure the impact. Our clinician recruitment opportunities have also increased as a result of the pandemic, driven by an increase in clinician supply from those seeking more stable employment models. While we continue to take advantage of clinician recruitment opportunities, recent changes in the labor market dynamics driven by pandemic-related burnout have also impacted retention. With independent clinicians facing higher technology costs, shifting consumer behavior and challenges from the uncertain economic environment, our pipeline of acquisition targets grew and assisted in our 2020 footprint expansion. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, our payor contracts or payor policies typically provided for rate parity for our care services regardless of whether visits are conducted in-person or virtually. As a result, even if temporary rate parity provisions that were enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic are not permanently extended, we do not expect such actions to have a meaningful impact on our business. We believe COVID-19 represents a paradigm shift in the importance of and focus on mental health care. We have seen significant increase in patient demand as well as payor and employer adoption of mental health coverage options during the pandemic and it is now integrated into health care offerings more than ever before. We feel the spotlight the pandemic has put on the need for mental health care will have a positive impact on our industry and business for years to come. Key Factors Affecting Our Results Expanding Center Capacity and Visits Within Existing Centers We have built a powerful organic growth engine that enables us to drive growth within our existing footprint. Our Clinicians As of March 31, 2022, we employed 4,989 psychiatrists, advanced practice nurses, psychologists and therapists through our subsidiaries and affiliated practices. We generate revenue on a per visit basis as clinical services are rendered by our clinicians. As our existing centers mature, we grow capacity through investments in office expansion to increase our average clinicians per center and enhance overall utilization. Recruiting new clinicians and retaining existing clinicians in our existing centers enables us to see more patients per center by expanding our patient visit capacity. We believe our dedicated employment model offers a superior value proposition compared to independent practice. Our network relationships provide clinicians with ready access to patients. We also enable clinicians to manage their own patient volumes. Our platform promotes a clinically-driven professional culture and streamlines patient access and care delivery, while optimizing practice administration processes through technology. We believe we are an employer of choice in mental health, allowing us to employ highly qualified clinicians. We believe we have significant opportunity to grow our employed clinician basewe estimate there are approximately 650,000 mental health clinicians in the United States, providing us with a meaningful runway to grow from our current base of 4,989 clinicians 20 employed through our subsidiaries and affiliated practices, as of March 31, 2022. To capitalize on this opportunity, we have developed a rigorous and exclusive in-house national clinician recruiting model that works closely with our regional clinical teams to select the best candidates and fulfill capacity in a timely manner. As we grow our clinician base, we can grow our business, expand access to our patients and our payors and invest in our platform to further reinforce our differentiated offering to clinicians. We have available physical capacity to add clinicians to our existing centers, as well as an opportunity to add new clinicians with the roll-out of de novo centers and acquire additional clinicians through our acquisition strategy. Our virtual care offering also allows clinicians to see more patients without investments in incremental physical space, expanding our patient visit capacity beyond in-person only levels. Our Patients We believe our ability to attract and retain patients to drive growth in our visits and meet the availability of our clinician base will enable us to grow our revenue. We believe we have a significant opportunity to increase the number of patients we serve in our existing markets. In 2021, our clinicians treated more than 570,000 unique patients through 4.6 million visits. We believe our ability to deliver more accessible, flexible, affordable and effective mental health care is a key driver of our patient growth. We believe we provide a superior and differentiated mental health care experience that integrates virtual and in-person care to deliver care in a convenient way for our patients, meeting our patients where they are. Our in-network payor relationships allow our patients to access care without significant out-of-pocket cost or delays in receiving treatment. We treat mental health conditions across the clinical spectrum through a clinical approach that delivers improved patient outcomes. We support our patients throughout their care continuum with purpose-built technological capabilities, including online assessments, digital provider communication, and seamless internal referral and follow-up capabilities. We utilize multiple strategies to add new patients to our platform, including our primary care and specialist physician relationships, internal referrals from our clinicians, our payor relationships and our dedicated marketing efforts. We have established a large network of national, regional and local payors that enables their members to be referred to us as patients. Payors refer patients to our platform to drive improvement in health outcomes for their members, reduction in total medical costs and increased member satisfaction and retention. Within our markets, we partner with primary care practice groups, specialists, health systems and academic institutions to refer patients to our centers and clinicians. Our local marketing teams build and maintain relationships with our referring partner networks to create awareness of our platform and services, including the opening of new centers and the introduction of newly hired clinicians with appointment availability. We also use online marketing to develop our national brand to increase brand awareness and promote additional channels of patient recruitment. Our Primary Care and Specialist Physician Referral Relationships We have built a powerful patient referral network through partnerships with primary care physicians and specialist physician groups across the country. We deliver value to our provider partners by offering a more efficient referral base, delivering improved outcomes for our mutual patients, and enabling more integrated care and lower total health care costs. As we continue to scale nationally, we plan to partner with additional hospital systems, large primary care groups and other specialist groups to help streamline their mental health network needs and drive continued patient growth across our platform. Our vision over time is to further integrate our mental health care services with those of our medical provider partners. By co-locating and driving towards integration with primary care providers, we can enhance our clinicians access to patients. We anticipate that we will continue to grow these relationships while evolving our offering toward a fully-integrated care model in which primary care and our mental health clinicians work together to develop and provide personalized treatment plans for shared patients. We believe these efforts will help to further align our model with that of other health care providers increasing our value to them and driving new opportunities to partner to grow our patient base. Our Payors Our payor relationships, including national contracts with multiple payors, allow payors access to our services through in-network coverage for their members. We believe the alignment of our model with our payor partners population health objectives encourages third-party payors to partner with us. We believe we deliver value to our payor partners in several ways, including access to a national clinician employee base, lower total medical costs, measurable outcomes, and stronger member and client value proposition through the offering of in-network mental health services. The strength of our payor relationships and our value proposition allowed us to secure rate parity between in-person and virtual visits, either by contract or payor policy. To expand this network and grow access to covered patients, we continue to establish new payor relationships and national contracts while also seeking to drive regional rate improvement for our patients and clinicians. We believe our payor relationships differentiate us from our competitors and are a critical factor in our ability to expand our market footprint in new regions by leveraging our existing national payor relationships. As we continue to grow, we believe our scale, breadth and access will continue to be enhanced, further strengthening the value of our platform to payors. Expand our Center Base Within Existing and New Markets We believe we have developed a highly replicable playbook that allows us to enter new markets and pursue growth through multiple vectors. We typically identify new markets based on the core characteristics of patient population demographics, substantial clinician recruiting opportunities, untreated patient communities and a diverse group of payors. To enter new markets, we seek to open 21 de novo centers or acquire high-quality practices with a track record of clinical excellence and in-network payor relationships. Once we enter a new market, our powerful organic growth engine drives our growth through de novo openings, center expansions, clinician recruiting and tuck-in acquisitions. We anticipate focusing on continued expansion, both in our existing markets and in new geographies, where mental health care remains a large unmet need. De Novo Builds Our de novo center strategy is a central component of our organic growth engine to build our capacity and increase density in our existing MSAs. From our inception in 2017 through March 31, 2022, we have successfully opened 267 de novo centers, including 41 de novo centers in 2022, 106 de novo centers in 2021 and 78 de novo centers in 2020. We believe there is a significant opportunity to use de novo center openings to unlock potential patient need in our existing markets and new markets that we have determined are attractive to enter. We systematically locate our centers within a given market to ensure convenient coverage for in-person access to care. We believe our successful de novo program and national clinician recruiting team can support additions of new centers and clinicians. In 2021, we transitioned to a more sustainable design for all new de novo centers going forward that reimagines the mental healthcare experience for both patients and clinicians while reinforcing our commitment to sustainability. Acquisitions We have built a proprietary pipeline of acquisition targets, providing us with significant opportunities to scale through potential acquisitions. We believe the highly fragmented nature of the mental health market provides us with a meaningful opportunity to execute on our acquisition playbook. We seek to acquire select practices that meet our standards of high-quality clinical care and align with our mission. We believe our guiding principle of creating a national platform built with a patient and clinician focus makes us a partner of choice for smaller, independent practices. Our acquisition strategy is deployed both to enter new markets and in our existing markets. In new markets, acquisitions allow us to establish a presence with high-quality practices with a track record of clinical excellence and in-network payor relationships that can be integrated into our national platform. In existing markets, acquisitions allow us to grow our geographic reach and clinician base to expand patient access. For newly acquired centers, we typically fully integrate them into our operational and technology infrastructure within four to six months following an acquisition. Center Margin As we grow our platform, we seek to generate consistent returns on our investments. See Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial MeasuresCenter Margin for our definition of Center Margin and reconciliation to loss from operations. We believe this metric best reflects the economics of our model as it includes all direct expenses associated with our patients care. We seek to grow our Center Margin through a combination of (i) growing revenue through clinician hiring and retention, patient growth and engagement, hybrid virtual and in-person care, existing office expansion, and in-network reimbursement levels, and (ii) leveraging on our fixed cost base at each center. For acquired centers, we also seek to realize operational, technology and reimbursement synergies to drive Center Margin growth. Investments in Growth We will continue to focus on long-term growth through investments in our centers and technology. In addition, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in the foreseeable future due to our planned investments in growth initiatives and public company infrastructure. Key Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We evaluate the growth of our footprint through a variety of metrics and indicators. The following table sets forth a summary of the key financial metrics we review to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate our business plan and make strategic decisions: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Total revenue $ 203,095 $ 143,132 Revenue growth 42 % 96 % Loss from operations (64,851 ) (881 ) Center Margin 54,202 43,998 Net loss (62,328 ) (8,682 ) Adjusted EBITDA 12,482 12,584 Center Margin and Adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and are not intended to be substitutes for any GAAP financial measures, including revenue, loss from operations or net loss, and, as calculated, may not be comparable to companies in other industries or within the same industry with similarly titled measures of performance. Therefore, 22 non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Center Margin We define Center Margin as loss from operations excluding depreciation and amortization and general and administrative expenses. Therefore, Center Margin is computed by removing from loss from operations the costs that do not directly relate to the delivery of care and only including center costs, excluding depreciation and amortization. We consider Center Margin to be an important measure to monitor our performance relative to the direct costs of delivering care. We believe Center Margin is useful to investors to measure whether we are sufficiently controlling the direct costs of delivering care. Center Margin is not a financial measure of, nor does it imply, profitability. The relationship of loss from operations to center costs, excluding depreciation and amortization is not necessarily indicative of future profitability from operations. Center Margin excludes certain expenses, such as general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortization, which are considered normal, recurring operating expenses and are essential to support the operation and development of our centers. Therefore, this measure may not provide a complete understanding of the operating results of our Company as a whole, and Center Margin should be reviewed in conjunction with our GAAP financial results. Other companies that present Center Margin may calculate it differently and, therefore, similarly titled measures presented by other companies may not be directly comparable to ours. In addition, Center Margin has limitations as an analytical tool, including that it does not reflect depreciation and amortization or other overhead allocations. The following table provides a reconciliation of loss from operations, the most closely comparable GAAP financial measure, to Center Margin: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Loss from operations $ (64,851 ) $ (881 ) Adjusted for: Depreciation and amortization 15,684 12,228 General and administrative expenses (1) 103,369 32,651 Center Margin $ 54,202 $ 43,998 (1) Represents salaries, wages and employee benefits for our executive leadership, finance, human resources, marketing, billing and credentialing support and technology infrastructure and stock and unit-based compensation for all employees. Adjusted EBITDA We present Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP performance measure, to supplement our results of operations presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful in evaluating our operating performance, and may be helpful to securities analysts, institutional investors and other interested parties in understanding our operating performance and prospects. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to be a substitute for any GAAP financial measure and, as calculated, may not be comparable to companies in other industries or within the same industry with similarly titled measures of performance. Therefore, our Adjusted EBITDA should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, such as net income or loss. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net loss excluding interest expense, depreciation and amortization, income tax benefit, loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration, stock and unit-based compensation, management fees, transaction costs and other expenses. We include Adjusted EBITDA in this Quarterly Report because it is an important measure upon which our management assesses, and believes investors should assess, our operating performance. We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important measure because it helps illustrate underlying trends in our business and our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis. However, Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, including: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash used for capital expenditures for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; Adjusted EBITDA does not include the dilution that results from equity-based compensation or any cash outflows included in equity-based compensation, including from our repurchases of shares of outstanding common stock; and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest expense on our debt or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments. 23 A reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA is presented below for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view Adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with net loss. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net loss $ (62,328 ) $ (8,682 ) Adjusted for: Interest expense 3,441 8,632 Depreciation and amortization 15,684 12,228 Income tax benefit (6,676 ) (2,761 ) Loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration 434 307 Stock and unit-based compensation expense 59,855 605 Management fees (1) 89 Transaction costs (2) 278 1,534 Other expenses (3) 1,794 632 Adjusted EBITDA $ 12,482 $ 12,584 (1) Represents management fees paid to certain of our executive officers and affiliates of our Principal Stockholders pursuant to the management services agreement entered into in connection with the TPG Acquisition. The management services agreement terminated in connection with the IPO. (2) Primarily includes capital markets advisory, consulting, accounting and legal expenses related to our acquisitions. (3) Primarily includes costs incurred to consummate or integrate acquired centers, certain of which are wholly-owned and certain of which are affiliated practices, in addition to the fees paid to former owners of acquired centers and related expenses that are not reflective of the ongoing operating expenses of our centers. Acquired center integration and other are components of general and administrative expenses included in our unaudited consolidated statements of operations. Former owner fees is a component of center costs, excluding depreciation and amortization included in our unaudited consolidated statements of operations. These costs are summarized for each period in the table below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Acquired center integration (1) $ 598 $ 501 Former owner fees (2) 227 84 Other (3) 969 47 Total $ 1,794 $ 632 (1) Represents costs incurred pre- and post-center acquisition to integrate operations, including expenses related to conversion of compensation model, legacy system costs and data migration, consulting and legal services, and overtime and temporary labor costs. (2) Represents short-term agreements, generally with terms of three to six months, with former owners of acquired centers, to provide transition and integration services. (3) Primarily includes severance expense unrelated to integration services. 24 Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) TOTAL REVENUE $ 203,095 $ 143,132 OPERATING EXPENSES Center costs, excluding depreciation and amortization shown separately below 148,893 99,134 General and administrative expenses 103,369 32,651 Depreciation and amortization 15,684 12,228 Total operating expenses $ 267,946 $ 144,013 LOSS FROM OPERATIONS $ (64,851 ) $ (881 ) OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) Loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration (434 ) (307 ) Transaction costs (278 ) (1,534 ) Interest expense (3,441 ) (8,632 ) Other expense (89 ) Total other expense $ (4,153 ) $ (10,562 ) LOSS BEFORE INCOME TAXES (69,004 ) (11,443 ) INCOME TAX BENEFIT 6,676 2,761 NET LOSS $ (62,328 ) $ (8,682 ) Total Revenue Total revenue increased $60.0 million, or 42%, to $203.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $143.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily due to an increase composed of $59.1 million of patient service revenue due to the increase in visits and $0.9 million of nonpatient revenue. Operating Expenses Center costs, excluding depreciation and amortization Center costs, excluding depreciation and amortization increased $49.8 million, or 50%, to $148.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $99.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily due to a $41.2 million increase in center-based compensation due to the increase in clinicians and visits and a $8.5 million increase in occupancy costs consisting of center rent and utilities and other operating expenses consisting of office supplies and insurance due to the increase in centers. General and administrative General and administrative expenses increased $70.7 million, or 217%, to $103.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $32.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily due to increases of $68.3 million in salaries, wages and employee benefits, which included an increase of $59.2 million in stock and unit-based compensation expense primarily relating to RSAs and the RSUs granted at the time of IPO, $2.1 million in occupancy costs and $0.3 million in other operating expenses, including professional services and insurance. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased $3.5 million to $15.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $12.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily due to the amortization of intangibles and depreciation during the periods. Other Income (Expense) Loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration Loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration increased $0.1 million to a $0.4 million loss for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from a $0.3 million loss for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily due to changes in the weighted probability of achieving the performance and operational targets. 25 Transaction costs Transaction costs decreased $1.2 million to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Transaction costs decreased primarily due t o fewer incremental fees related to corporate transactions. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $5.2 million to $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $8.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This decrease was primarily due to lower borrowings outstanding during the period. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) decreased $0.1 million to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily due to the termination of the management services as a result of our IPO during the second quarter of 2021. Income Tax Benefit Income tax benefit increased $3.9 million to $6.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 from $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily due to the increase in taxable loss for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources We measure liquidity in terms of our ability to fund the cash requirements of our business operations, including working capital needs, capital expenditures, including to execute on our de novo strategy, contractual obligations, debt service, acquisitions, settlement of contingent considerations obligations, and other commitments with cash flows from operations and other sources of funding. Our principal sources of liquidity to date have included cash from operating activities, cash on hand and amounts available under the May 2020 Credit Agreement executed simultaneously with the TPG Acquisition on May 14, 2020. We had cash and cash equivalents of $114.0 million and $148.0 million as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our assessment of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could vary because of, and our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to acquire new centers and expand into new markets and the expansion of marketing activities. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our future obligations primarily consist of our debt and lease obligations. We expect our cash generation from operations and future ability to refinance or secure additional financing facilities to be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt obligations and lease payment obligations. As of December 31, 2021 and March 31, 2022, there was an aggregate principal amount of $161.2 million and $180.9 million outstanding under the May 2020 Credit Agreement, respectively. As of March 31, 2022, our non-cancellable future minimum operating third-party lease payments totaled $270.5 million, and our non-cancellable future minimum operating related-party lease payments totaled $4.8 million. Debt May 2020 Credit Agreement On May 14, 2020 and in connection with the TPG Acquisition, LifeStance Health Holdings, Inc., one of our subsidiaries, entered into the May 2020 Credit Agreement. The May 2020 Credit Agreement provides for senior secured credit facilities (the Credit Facilities) in the form of (i) $37.5 million original and delayed draw principal amount of Closing Date Term B-1 Loans and $222.5 million original and delayed draw principal amount of Closing Date Term B-2 Loans (Closing Date Term Loans), and (ii) $20.0 million of Revolving Commitments. On November 4, 2020, we entered into the First Amendment to the May 2020 Credit Agreement which, among other things, provided for incremental Credit Facilities in the form of $16.6 million original principal amount of First Amendment Term B-1 Loans and $98.4 million original principal amount of First Amendment Term B-2 Loans (First Amendment Term Loans). On February 1, 2021, we entered into the Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement (Second Amendment). The Second Amendment provides for incremental delayed draw term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $50.0 million. The Second Amendment delayed draw term loans are subject to the same terms and conditions set forth in the May 2020 Credit Agreement. On April 30, 2021, we entered into the Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement (the Third Amendment). The Third Amendment provides for incremental delayed draw term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $70.0 million. The Third 26 Amendment delayed draw term loans are subject to the substantially same terms and conditions as those set forth in the May 2020 Credit Agreement. In connection with our IPO, we made a voluntary prepayment of $294.0 million related to borrowings outstanding as of June 15, 2021. The Closing Date Term Loans and First Amendment Term Loans are scheduled to mature on May 14, 2026, and the Revolving Commitments are scheduled to mature on May 14, 2025. The loans under the Credit Facilities bear interest at a rate per annum equal to adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin (i) in the case of Closing Date Term B-1 Loans, ranging from 3.25% to 3.75% per annum (depending on our first lien net leverage), (ii) in the case of Closing Date Term B-2 Loans, ranging from 8.22% to 8.72% per annum (depending on our first lien net leverage), (iii) in the case of loans under the Revolving Commitments, ranging from 4.50% to 4.75% per annum (depending on our first lien net leverage), (iv) in the case of the First and Third Amendments Term B-1 Loans, of 3.00% per annum and (v) in the case of the First and Third Amendments Term B-2 Loans, of 7.09% per annum. In addition, we are required to pay a quarterly undrawn commitment fee of 2.0% per annum on the undrawn delayed draw term loan commitments under the Closing Date Term B-1 Loans and Closing Date Term B-2 Loans (increasing to 3.0% per annum following May 14, 2021), and we are required to pay a quarterly undrawn commitment fee of 1.0% per annum on the undrawn delayed draw term loan commitments under the First Amendment Term B-1 Loans and First Amendment Term B-2 Loans (increasing to 2.0% per annum following the first anniversary of the First Amendment Date). Our obligations under the Credit Facilities are guaranteed by Lynnwood Intermediate Holdings, Inc. and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. We are subject to certain affirmative and negative covenants until maturity, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or make capital expenditures and to pay dividends. The Credit Facilities also contain a maximum Total Net Leverage Ratio (as defined in the May 2020 Credit Agreement) financial maintenance covenant that requires our consolidated Total Net Leverage Ratio as of the last day of each fiscal quarter to not exceed 8.00:1.00, which maximum level steps down to 7.25:1.00 beginning with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2022 and to 7.00:1.00 beginning with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2023. Total Net Leverage Ratio means the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt (as defined in the May 2020 Credit Agreement) outstanding as of the last day of the test period, minus the Unrestricted Cash Amount (as defined in the May 2020 Credit Agreement) on such last day, to (b) Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the May 2020 Credit Agreement) for such Test Period, in each case on a pro forma basis (Credit Agreement Consolidated EBITDA). These restrictive covenants utilize Credit Agreement Consolidated EBITDA, which reflects further adjustments beyond those included in Adjusted EBITDA. Credit Agreement Consolidated EBITDA includes a cap for de novo start up costs of $1.5 million for each such new de novo facility, not to exceed 10% of Credit Agreement Consolidated EBITDA, in the aggregate, and allows for the adjustment of retention, relocation, recruiting or completion bonuses or recruiting costs, severance costs, transition costs, curtailments or modifications to pension and post-employment employee benefit plans costs in connection with the establishment or acquisition of a new practice, as well as certain pro forma acquisition run rate adjustments. As of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Facilities. 2022 Credit Agreement On May 4, 2022, the Company entered into an agreement (the "2022 Credit Agreement") for senior secured credit facilities in the form of (i) up to a $100,000 delayed draw loan, (ii) a $200,000 term loan and (iii) a $50,000 revolving loan. The interest rate is a variable interest rate determined at Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") plus 3.25% on the revolving loan and SOFR plus 4.50% on the term loans and any delayed draw term loans. The 2022 Credit Agreement is expected to close on or prior to May 23, 2022, subject to certain conditions. In connection with the closing of the 2022 Credit Agreement, the Company will repay all outstanding amounts of the existing May 2020 Credit Agreement. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,308 $ 9,909 Net cash used in investing activities (50,855 ) (11,835 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 13,508 22,591 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (34,039 ) $ 20,665 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 148,029 18,829 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 113,990 $ 39,494 Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, operating activities provided $3.3 million of cash, primarily impacted by our $62.3 million net loss and $76.2 million in non-cash charges. This was partially offset by changes in our operating assets and liabilities 27 of $10.6 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, operating activities provided $9.9 million of cash, primarily due to non-cash charges of $13.5 million, changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $5.1 million and our net loss of $8.7 million. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, investing activities used $50.9 million of cash, primarily resulting from our business acquisitions totaling $23.0 million and purchases of property and equipment of $27.9 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, investing activities used $11.8 million of cash, primarily resulting from our business acquisitions of $0.7 million and purchases of property and equipment of $11.1 million. Cash Flows Provided by Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, financing activities provided $13.5 million of cash, resulting primarily from borrowings of $20.0 million under the May 2020 Credit Agreement, partially offset by payments of loan obligations of $0.3 million, and payments of contingent consideration of $5.7 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, financing activities provided $22.6 million of cash, resulting from borrowings of $26.2 million under the May 2020 Credit Agreement, partially offset by payments of loan obligations of $0.8 million, payments of costs related to our IPO of $0.3 million, payments of debt issue costs of $1.0 million and payments of contingent consideration of $1.5 million. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report include the results of (i) LifeStance TopCo, L.P., its wholly-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities consolidated by LifeStance TopCo, L.P. in which LifeStance TopCo, L.P. has an interest and is the primary beneficiary for the period ended March 31, 2021 and (ii) LifeStance Health Group, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities consolidated by LifeStance Health Group, Inc. in which LifeStance Health Group, Inc. has an interest and is the primary beneficiary for the period ended March 31, 2022. Preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires our management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amount of total revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical when (1) the estimate made in accordance with GAAP is complex in nature or involves a significant level of estimation uncertainty and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial condition or results of operations in our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. For a description of our policies regarding our critical accounting estimates, see Critical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting estimates or methodologies to our consolidated financial statements. Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Pronouncements Recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements are described in Note 2 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date that we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our unaudited consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with the new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier to occur of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of the IPO, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of the prior June 30th; and (ii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period.