Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Our Business and other sections in this report. Other sections of this report include additional factors that could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Unless otherwise indicated, information in this report concerning economic conditions and our industry is based on information from independent industry analysts and publications, as well as our estimates. Except where otherwise noted, our estimates are derived from publicly available information released by third party sources, as well as data from our internal research, and are based on such data and our knowledge of our industry, which we believe to be reasonable. Unless otherwise indicated, none of the independent industry publication market data cited in this report was prepared on our or our affiliates behalf. The forward-looking statements made in this report are based only on events or information as of the date on which the statements are made in this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date on which the statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should read this report and the documents we refer to in this report and have filed as exhibits to this report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Additional information on the various risks and uncertainties potentially affecting our operating results are discussed in this report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. As used in this report, Immudyne, Company, we, our and similar terms refer to Immudyne, Inc., unless the context indicates otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business Our Company We manufacture, distribute and sell natural immune support products containing our proprietary yeast beta glucans, a group of beta glucans naturally occurring in the cell walls of yeast that have been shown through testing and analysis to support the immune system. Our products include once a day oral intake tablets and topical creams and gels for skin application. In addition, in the second quarter of 2017, we have launched an in-licensed patented hair loss shampoo and conditioner. We believe, based on testing and analysis conducted by third parties on our behalf, that the beta glucans derived from yeast we manufacture are superior to any other beta glucans available on the market. Historically, we have sold our proprietary additive, for both oral and topical use, primarily to large dietary supplement and cosmetic companies. During fiscal year 2015, we saw increased interest in our SGM active agent delivery technology, which we believe may have additional beneficial and marketable uses, and on which we are conducting further testing. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we established a partnership with Inate Skincare, LLC (Inate) to launch a complete skin care regimen containing our proprietary ingredients and to market such products directly to consumers. The Company entered into a limited liability company operating agreement with its joint venture partners with respect to Inate under the legal name Immudyne PR LLC (Immudyne PR). On April 1, 2016, the original operating agreement of Immudyne PR was amended and restated and we increased our ownership and voting interest in Immudyne PR to 78.16667%. As a result of our ownership and control of Immudyne PR, we now operate in two business segments, nutraceutical and cosmetic additives and finished cosmetic products. We were originally incorporated under the laws of British Columbia, Canada, in 1987 under the name Anina Resources, Inc. and subsequently changed our name to Immudyne, Inc. and our jurisdiction to the State of Wyoming by continuance in September 1987. On June 30, 1994, we changed our jurisdiction to Delaware by merger with and into Immudyne, Inc., a Delaware corporation formed on June 21, 1994. None of the testing and analysis or scientific research mentioned in this report has been subject to the oversight of the FDA or any comparable regulatory body, and no regulatory body has attested to the efficacy of beta glucans in supporting the immune system or otherwise treating disease. Further, the marketing of beta glucans is not subject to FDA approval, and we are prohibited by Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and FDA regulations from suggesting in advertisements and product labels that our products mitigate, treat, cure or prevent a specific disease or class of disease. Our Products We have a developed proprietary approach to produce beta glucans derived from yeast which we believe are superior to any other beta glucans on the market. Our yeast beta glucans are odorless and tasteless, making them suitable for use in a wide variety of oral and topical applications, including in our nutraceutical and cosmetic product lines. As the U.S. and international markets become more aware of the value of our proprietary products, we believe demand for our beta glucans will increase. Beta Glucans Beta glucans, or -Glucans, are a natural extract that are considered to be biological response modifiers that support the immune system. The most common sources of beta glucans are from the cell walls of bakers yeast, the cellulose in plants, the bran of cereal grains and certain fungi and bacteria. The differences between beta glucan chemical structures are significant in regards to solubility and overall biological activity. In fact, beta glucans derived from mushrooms and cereals do not appear to have the same effects on human health as beta glucans derived from yeast. We derive our high-grade beta glucan from yeast cell walls using proprietary processes in our manufacturing facility. Our beta glucan is generally free of yeast by-product and endotoxins, and has demonstrated reliability in terms of both stability and biological response. In fact, we commissioned an analytical side-by-side comparison by a laboratory which conducts testing and analysis of nutraceutical compounds, between our beta glucan and each of the beta glucans manufactured by our two main competitors. The results of the analytical comparison demonstrated the superiority of our beta glucan which was far less impure and more uniform in composition than those of our competitors. 1 The health benefits of yeast beta glucans have been demonstrated through extensive testing and analysis and scientific research on yeast beta glucans generally, and we are committed to supporting evidence-based studies that demonstrate the health benefits of our products. General scientific research on beta glucan derived from yeast cell walls has been conducted in recent years by renowned medical laboratories, including Baylor College of Medicine, U.S. Armed Forces Radiobiology Institute, Stanford University, Southwest Research Institute, Case Western Reserve University, University of Arkansas, North Carolina State University, University of Bern, Switzerland, and the China Agricultural University, China. As more studies are conducted on beta glucans, we believe the potential benefits to human health will continue to emerge. Healthcare professionals, including licensed physicians, alternative medicine practitioners, scientists and researchers have taken an interest in our immune-support products as a means of offering alternative or complementary approaches for maintaining a healthy and active lifestyle. These expressions of interest have often resulted in proposals for research studies and recommendations of our products. We plan to build upon this interest and hope to grow our contacts with licensed physicians who utilize our product in a clinical setting and with researchers who have the resources to conduct testing and analysis on our products. We also have relationships with medical doctors who in the past have conducted self-funded studies in which we supplied our product free of charge, though we do not have any formal clinical development or research agreements with these institutions and doctors. In addition, Dr. Sven Rohmann, PhD is a director of the Company. Dr. Rohmann is a worldwide authority on innate immunity and has an extensive medical and business background, including having spent 10 years with Merck Serono, where he served as the Global Head, Strategic Marketing, Oncology. Dr. Joseph DiTrolio of the Roseland, New Jersey Surgery Center and St. Georges University School of Medicine is also a director of the Company. Dr. Allan Whitberg, previously of Roger Williams Medical Center in Providence, Rhode Island and currently affiliated with Boston University School of Medicine, and Dr. Stephen Petteruti of The Petteruti Center For Life Extension in Warwick, RI, are among the medical doctors with whom we have relationships and who have conducted self-funded studies on our product. We also have established a relationship with National Jewish Health in Denver, Colorado and we are exploring additional opportunities to have further studies conducted at leading institutions. We have also established a partnership with the leading physicians of the Stone Center of New Jersey to educate patients about the benefits of supplementing their chemotherapy and radiation treatments with our yeast-beta glucan products. To be sure, none of the testing and analysis or scientific research mentioned in this annual report has been subject to oversight of the FDA or any comparable regulatory body, and no regulatory body has attested to the efficacy of beta glucans in supporting the immune system or otherwise treating disease. Further, the marketing of beta glucans is not subject to FDA approval, and we are prohibited by FTC and FDA regulations from suggesting in advertisements and product labels that our products mitigate, treat, cure or prevent a specific disease or class of disease. Yeast Beta Glucan Product Lines Our nutraceutical and cosmetic product lines consist of our natural, premium yeast beta glucans in oral and topical applications. We offer our yeast beta glucans as natural raw material ingredients in bulk quantities, our Nutraceutical and Cosmetic Additives segment, and finished, consumer products packaged under our brands as well as private label brands, our Finished Cosmetic Products segment, which are marketed directly to consumers. We have also launched an in-licensed patented hair loss shampoo and conditioner called ShapiroMD in the second quarter of 2017. Our principal, branded nutraceutical and cosmetic products for our yeast beta glucans are oral daily supplements and topical lines of rejuvenating serums and creams. Our oral supplements are dietary supplements containing proprietary combinations of our yeast beta glucan to support immune system function. Our skin care serums and creams consist of our patented yeast-derived beta glucan and other natural ingredients intended to support the skins immune system response and defense, skin renewal and to repair sun and environmental damage. 2 Sales and Marketing We have performance based contracts with our sales and marketing executives, which allows us to continue to maintain a relatively low overhead. Our priority is to actively pursue opportunities to market our products and increase sales. Our sales and marketing strategy primarily consists of building the brand recognition of our product lines and our proprietary yeast beta glucans. We plan to sell our products primarily on a word-of-mouth basis through distributors and our website as standalone product lines, as well as business-to-business as a cosmetic enhancement or dietary supplement. Our principal products are consumables with the goal of generating a stream of repeat sales with the same end customers over an extended period of time. To reach these customers, our marketing strategy includes several online sales promotions. In addition, we are building our brand recognition with healthcare professionals through further testing and analysis of our products and educating practitioners and clinics on the benefits of our products. We also market out products direct to consumers through our joint venture with Inate established in October 2015 and through which we intend to develop, launch and market additional SKUs based on our proprietary beta glucans. Inate benefits from a leadership team that has deep experience in the direct marketing space and a proven track record in creating national brands. Manufacturing and Sourcing We have focused on the production of immune system support compounds including our beta glucans derived from yeast for over 20 years. Our staff produces consistently high-grade, particulate and reliable beta glucans which are included in our nutraceutical and cosmetic product lines. For certain of our packaged consumer goods, we use third party contractors for encapsulation, bottling and labeling. These contractors are subject to regular government inspections, and to the best of our knowledge, comply with current GMPs and hold the necessary drug manufacturing licenses and processed food registrations required by their respective state regulators. Such packaging services are readily available from multiple sources. The raw materials necessary to manufacture our beta glucans principally consist of bakers yeast and are common and readily available. We hold our suppliers to strict quality and delivery specifications as part of our GMP compliance and quality control procedures, including quality assurance of raw materials used in the production of our products. Our beta glucan products and manufacturing processes are protected by registered and pending patents and trade secrets. Our manufacturing facilities and practices are compliant with published current GMPs established by the FDA for dietary supplements. Customers We sell our products direct to consumers and to pharmaceutical, nutraceutical and consumer product companies principally in the U.S. market, but also have generated sales in Canada. We focus on establishing and growing long-term relationships with our customers, and we believe that the majority of our customers and partners view us as a strategic long-term supplier and value the quality of our beta glucan products. Our sales through distributors typically are made pursuant to supplier agreements executed in the ordinary course of business with individual orders made on purchase orders. As we have sought to expand our sales, we have marketed our nutraceutical and cosmetic product lines through distributors, partnerships, and direct sales to consumers. We do not anticipate a seasonality of sales. Our largest customer, Michel Mercier Products, Inc. (d/b/a M.M.P, Inc.), accounted for 15% of our consolidated sales in 2016 and 73% our consolidated sales in 2015. Our second largest customer accounted for 2% of our consolidated sales in 2016 and 12% our consolidated sales in 2015. The remainder of our consolidated sales were attributable to our finished cosmetic products segment and which sales were made through our joint venture with Inate, which sales are decreasing our reliance on MMP. 3 Competition The markets for nutritional supplements and skin care products are highly competitive, consisting of a large number of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, none of which dominates the fragmented and diverse market. We compete for sales direct to consumers, through distributors and business-to-business. Although we believe, based on testing and analysis by third parties on our behalf, that our yeast beta glucan is superior to others available on the market, we compete with other companies manufacturing beta glucans from yeast and other sources as well as companies producing other food ingredients and nutritional supplements for human use. Many end consumers may consider such products to be a replacement for the products we manufacture and distribute. Many of our competitors have greater marketing, research and capital resources than us, and may be able to offer their products at lower costs because of their greater purchasing power or lower cost of raw materials and manufacturing. We anticipate continuing to expand our sales on a meaningful basis as part of our new marketing strategy focusing on our nutraceutical and cosmetic product lines. We anticipate competing in these markets on the basis of quality, our proprietary manufacturing processes, research data and effective marketing campaigns promoting the benefits of our natural immune support products. There are no assurances that our products will be able to compete in these markets, however, or that our marketing strategy will be successful. Intellectual Property We rely primarily on proprietary trade secret know how and protect our intellectual property and maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. We maintain trademarks registered in the U.S. for our business name and related to our product brands. In addition, we have registered and maintain internet domain names related to our businesses, including immudyne.com. Governmental and Environmental Regulation Our business and the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our beta glucan products are regulated in the U.S. primarily by the FDA and the FTC. The FDA enforces the FDCA and Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) as they pertain to foods, food ingredients, cosmetics and dietary supplement production and marketing. Dietary supplements and nutraceuticals are regulated as a category of food, not as drugs. The FDA classifies Yeast extract (Bakers) as generally recognized as safe (GRAS), which substances by definition are not food additives. Most GRAS substances have no quantitative restrictions as to use, although their use must conform to current GMPs. The FDA promulgates GMP guidelines to ensure that dietary supplements are produced in a quality manner, do not contain contaminants or impurities and are accurately labeled. GMPs include requirements for establishing quality control procedures, designing and constructing manufacturing plants, testing ingredients and finished products and record keeping and handling of consumer product complaints. The FDA has broad authority to enforce the provisions of federal law applicable to dietary supplements and cosmetics, including the power to monitor claims made in product labeling, to seize adulterated or misbranded products or unapproved new drugs, to request product recall, to enjoin further manufacture or sale of a product, to issue warning letters and to institute criminal proceedings. Advertising and product claims regarding the efficacy of products are also regulated by the FTC. The FTC regulates the advertising of dietary supplements and other health-related products to ensure that any advertising is truthful and not misleading, and that an advertiser maintains adequate substantiation for all product claims. FTC enforcement actions may result in consent decrees, cease and desist orders, judicial injunctions and the payment of fines with respect to advertising claims that are found to be unsubstantiated. Yeast beta glucans are classified as GRAS by the FDA and our oral and topical-use product lines containing our yeast beta glucan are marketed as dietary supplements and cosmetics, respectively. Under current U.S. regulations, our products must comply with certain labeling requirements enforced by the FDA and FTC, but otherwise generally are not required to receive regulatory approval prior to introduction into the U.S. market. We believe we are in compliance with all material government regulations applicable to our products. 4 In the EU markets, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), an advisory panel to the European Commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. The European Commission will consider the opinions of EFSA in determining whether to include a health claim on a list of permissible claims. Once published, only health claims for ingredients and products included on the list may be used in promotional materials for products marketed and sold in the European Union. The marketability of our products may be limited as we look to expand our sales in the EU if the health claims of our products are not included on the list. In addition to the foregoing, our operations are subject to federal, foreign, state and local government laws and regulations, including those relating to zoning, workplace safety and accommodations for the disabled, and our relationship with our employees is subject to regulations, including minimum wage requirements, anti-discrimination laws, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. We currently do not incur any material costs in connection with our compliance with applicable environmental laws as our manufacturing processes generate minimal discharge. Furthermore, the cost of maintaining compliance with applicable environmental laws has not, and we believe, in the future, will not, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all material governmental regulations applicable to our operations. Employees As of December 31, 2016, we had 11 employees, as well as numerous part-time employees and additional full-time consultants worldwide. All employees and our officers and directors are eligible to participate in our group health and dental insurance plans. Website Access Disclosure Our internet website address is http://www.immudyne.com . We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan, and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business The report of our independent registered public accounting firm contains explanatory language that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. The independent auditors report on our financial statements contains explanatory language that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern as at December 31, 2016, we had a negative net working capital position. If we are unable to fund operations through our operating business, and are unable to obtain sufficient financing in the near term as required or achieve profitability, then we would, in all likelihood, experience severe liquidity problems and may have to curtail our operations. If we curtail our operations, we may be placed into bankruptcy or undergo liquidation, the result of which will adversely affect the value of our common shares. We have generated losses and not yet achieved positive cash flows, which may adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve revenue growth, profitability or positive cash flow, on either a quarterly or annual basis, or that profitability, if achieved, will be sustained. Our ability to meet our long-term business objectives likely will be dependent upon establishing increased cash flow from operations or securing other sources of financing. We have implemented a new sales and marketing strategy to focus on higher-margin products that carry what we believe to be greater opportunities for growth in the U.S. and international markets. In addition, management has instituted cost-cutting measures; including terminating certain employees that were not contributing to the business and ceasing our operations in the low-margin feed additive product line, which we believe should result in improved efficiencies of our operations going forward. If our losses continue, however, our liquidity may be severely impaired, our stock price may fall and our shareholders may lose all or a significant portion of their investment. We may not be able to implement our growth and marketing strategy successfully or on a timely basis or at all. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to implement our growth strategy of expanding distribution and sales of our beta glucan oral and topical application products, attracting new consumers to our brand and introducing new product lines and product extensions. Our ability to implement this growth strategy depends, among other things, on our ability to: enter into distribution and other strategic arrangements with other potential distributors of our all-natural raw material products; increase our brand recognition; expand and maintain brand loyalty; and research new applications for existing products and develop new product lines and extensions. Our sales and operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to implement our growth strategy or if we invest resources in a growth strategy that ultimately proves unsuccessful. 6 If we fail to develop and maintain our brand, our business could suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining our brand is critical to our success. The importance of our brand recognition may become greater as competitors offer more products similar to ours. Our brand-building activities involve increasing awareness of our brand, creating and maintaining brand loyalty and increasing the availability of our products. If our brand-building activities are unsuccessful, we may never recover the expenses incurred in connection with these efforts, and we may be unable to implement our business strategy and increase our future sales. We are subject to government regulation of the processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our consumer products, and any failure to comply with such regulations could require us to repackage, recall or undergo regulatory approval of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Under the FDCA and DSHEA companies that manufacture and distribute foods, food ingredients, cosmetics and dietary supplements in the U.S., such as our yeast beta glucan products, are limited in the claims that they are permitted to make about nutritional support on the product label without the approval of the FDA. Any failure by us to adhere to the labeling requirements could lead to the FDA requiring that our products be repackaged and relabeled, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, advertising and product claims regarding the efficacy of products are also regulated by the FTC. Companies are responsible for the accuracy and truthfulness of, and must have substantiation for, any such statements. These claims must be truthful and not misleading. Statements must not claim to diagnose, mitigate, treat, cure or prevent a specific disease or class of disease. We are able to market our oral and topical application products in reliance on the GRAS status of our active ingredient, yeast beta glucan. No governmental agency or other third party has made a determination as to whether or not our products have achieved GRAS status. If the FDA, another regulatory authority or other third party denied our GRAS status for our yeast beta glucan products, we could face significant penalties or be required to undergo the regulatory approval process in order to market our products. In such event, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected as we cannot assure you that in such a situation our yeast beta glucan products would be approved. The FDAs current GMPs describe policies and procedures designed to ensure that dietary supplements are produced in a quality manner, do not contain contaminants or impurities, and are accurately labeled and cover the manufacturing, packaging, labeling and storing of supplements, with requirements for quality control, design and construction of manufacturing plants, testing of ingredients and final products, record keeping, and complaints processes. Those who manufacture, package or store dietary supplements must comply with current GMPs. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with current GMP procedures, the FDA may take enforcement action against us or our suppliers. The processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our yeast beta glucan products in the U.S. are subject to regulation by the FDA, FTC and other federal agencies, and our activities are also subject to regulation by various agencies of the states and localities in which our yeast beta glucan products are sold. Any changes in the current regulatory environment could impose requirements that would limit our ability to market our yeast beta glucan products and make bringing new products to market more expensive. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While our yeast beta glucan products currently are categorized as foods, it is possible that the FDA or a state regulatory agency could classify these products as a cosmetic or a drug. If our products are classified as cosmetics rather than a food, we would be limited to making claims that our products cleanse and beautify, rather than making structure or function claims. If our yeast beta glucan products are classified as drugs, we would not be able to market our products without going through the drug approval process. Either of these events would limit our ability to market our products effectively and cost-efficiently, and would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If the FDA or a state regulatory agency viewed our products as cosmetics or drugs, they could claim that the products are misbranded and require that we repackage and relabel the products and impose civil and criminal penalties on us. Either or both of these situations could adversely affect our business and operations. 7 In the European Union, or the EU, markets, the European Food Safety Authority, or EFSA, an advisory panel to the European Commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. The European Commission will consider the opinions of EFSA in determining whether to include a health claim on the list of permissible claims. Once published, only health claims for ingredients and products included on the list may be used in promotional materials for products marketed and sold in the European Union. The marketability of our products may be limited as we look to expand our sales in the EU if the health claims of our products are not included on the list. We have subjected, and will continue to subject, our products to testing and analysis. If the findings of these studies are challenged or found insufficient to support our health claims, we may need to perform additional testing and analysis before we are able to successfully market such products. Although our yeast beta glucan products are supplements, as opposed to drugs, we have subjected, and will continue to subject, our products to testing and analysis to ensure that we are able to continue to deliver a superior product so that we may successfully market such products, though no such trials are currently required for marketing approval by the FDA or any comparable regulatory body. Testing and analysis for new product uses can require a significant amount of resources and there is no assurance that the results will be favorable to the claims we make for our products, or that they will be sufficient to support our claims. If the findings of our testing and analysis are challenged or found to be insufficient to support our claims, additional testing and analysis may be required before we are able to successfully market our products. No such testing and analysis has been, nor will it be when conducted, subject to the approval by the FDA or any comparable regulatory body. If we undertake product recalls or incur liability claims with respect to our yeast beta glucan products, such recalls or claims could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Our yeast beta glucan products are designed for human consumption and we face product recalls or liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or death. To date, we have not (i) conducted any product recalls, (ii) received any product liability claims from third parties, or (iii) received any reports from an end consumer of any adverse effect resulting from our products. Yeast beta glucan is classified as a food ingredient and is not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the U.S. However, our yeast beta glucan products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from consumption of these ingredients could occur. We may have to undertake various product recalls or be subject to liability claims, including, among others, that our yeast beta glucan products include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. A product recall or liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently do not maintain product liability insurance coverage. Product liability insurance is expensive, is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and may not be available to us in the future. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of any product liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of product liability litigation or other proceedings could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Product liability litigation and other related proceedings may also require significant management attention. 8 Our Nutraceutical and Cosmetic Additive segment derives a substantial part of its sales from two major customers. If we lose either of these customers, or they reduce the amount of business they do with us, or if they fail to meet their obligations to us, our sales, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our largest customer, Michel Mercier Products, Inc. (d/b/a M.M.P, Inc.) (MMP), accounted for 15% of our sales in 2016 and 73% of our sales in 2015. Our relationship with MMP is governed by a written contract, which is subject to a confidentiality agreement. The initial term of our contract with MMP expired on December 19, 2016. Pursuant to its terms, the written contract will be automatically renewed for continuous one-year periods unless either party gives notice of its intent to terminate at least 90 days prior to the expiration of any renewal term. Additionally, our second largest customer accounted for 2% of our sales in 2016 and 12% of our sales in 2015. If we lose either of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us, our sales and profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to credit risk due to concentration of our trade accounts receivables, and the inability of either of these customers to meet their obligations to us would adversely affect our financial results. At December 31, 2016, accounts receivable from MMP amounted to 11% and at December 31, 2015 accounts receivable from MMP amounted to 43% of total accounts receivable. We are making progress in decreasing our reliance on these two customers, as evidenced by our increased sales in our finished cosmetic products business segment. However, if we lose either of these customers or they reduces the amount of business they does with us, or if they fail to meet their obligations to us, our sales, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our yeast beta glucan products face various forms of competition from other products in the marketplace, which could adversely affect our market share and result in a decrease in our future sales and earnings. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by intense competition, rapid product development and technological change. Most of the competition that our yeast beta glucan products face comes from companies that are larger and more well established, with greater financial, marketing, sales and technological resources than we have. Our products compete with a range of consumer and nutraceutical products. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in marketing and product development areas including, but not limited to, sales and branding, product safety, efficacy, ease-of-use, customer compliance, price, marketing and distribution. There can be no assurance that competitors will not succeed in developing and marketing products that are more desirable or effective than our products or that would render our products obsolete and non-competitive. We may, in the future, be subject to risks of doing business internationally as we attempt to expand our sales through international consulting and distributor relationships. We anticipate entering into international consulting and distributor agreements for our yeast beta glucan products. As a result, we expect to increase our revenues from international sales. A number of factors can prevent international sales, or substantially increase the cost of international sales, and we may encounter certain risks of doing business internationally including the following: increased government regulation of the processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our consumer products for international markets; reduced protection and enforcement for our intellectual property rights; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to sell our products and repatriate funds to the U.S.; political and economic instability; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties in developing and maintaining distributor relationships in foreign countries; difficulties in negotiating acceptable contractual terms and enforcing contractual obligations; exposure to liabilities under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; potential trade restrictions and exchange controls; creditworthiness of foreign distributors, customer uncertainty and difficulty in foreign accounts receivable collection; and the burden of complying with foreign laws. 9 As we attempt to expand our sales internationally, our exposure to these risks could result in our inability to attain the anticipated benefits of expanding internationally and our business could be adversely impacted. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. A material disruption at our manufacturing facilities in Kentucky could result in material delays, quality control issues, increased costs and loss of business opportunities, which may negatively impact our sales and financial results. We rely on our manufacturing facilities in Kentucky to operate our business and produce our yeast beta glucan products. Our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within our otherwise operational facilities, could cease operations or no longer comply with current GMP guidelines unexpectedly due to a number of events, including prolonged power or equipment failures, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, fires, floods or other catastrophes. If our manufacturing facilities no longer comply with GMP, our products may be deemed adulterated under U.S. regulations and subject to recall. Furthermore, a significant majority of our raw material product inventory is located in our Kentucky facility. If any material amount of our inventory were damaged as a result of a material disruption, we would be unable to meet our contractual obligations. While we seek to operate our manufacturing facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities, any such material disruption at our facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and negatively impact our financial results. If we lose our President, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, the quality of our products may decline and our business may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of our President, Mark McLaughlin. Loss of his services could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives, if we are unable to find a suitable replacement. Mr. McLaughlin is an integral factor in establishing relationships and the continued development of our business depends upon his continued employment. If he were to resign or retire, we would have to find a suitable replacement who shared his expertise and relationships. Any delay in finding a suitable replacement would adversely affect the pace at which we are able to successfully grow our business and could harm our existing business, resulting in a decrease in sales and revenue. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. McLaughlin that includes provisions for non-competition and confidentiality that expires in October 2017. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled personnel and consultants. While we have been able to find a sufficient number of skilled personnel consistent with our growth to date, we cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed by us for any period of time or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future consistent with our growth. Such loss of personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and company. Furthermore, we may need to employ additional personnel to expand our business. Qualified employees and consultants in the dietary supplement industry are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers requirements. There is no assurance we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates could impair the growth of our business. Current and future economic and market conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. Factors such as uncertainties in consumer spending, a sustained regional and global economic downturn or slow recovery may reduce the demand for our yeast beta glucan products. Furthermore, challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for our commercial, direct-to-consumer products. Consumer spending for our yeast beta glucan products generally is considered a discretionary purchase because they are non-prescription nutraceutical supplements and nutricosmetics, and we may experience a more negative impact on our business due to these conditions than other companies that do not depend on discretionary spending. If demand for our products declines or our customers are otherwise unable to pay for our products, we may be required to offer extensive discounts or spend more on marketing than budgeted and our revenues, expense levels and profitability will be adversely affected. 10 We need additional capital to continue to conduct our business, execute our business plan and fund operations. We may not be able to obtain such capital on acceptable terms or at all. In connection with the development and expansion of our business, we incur significant capital and operational expenses. We believe that we can increase our sales and net income by implementing a growth strategy that focuses on (i) diversifying revenues to include greater direct-to-consumer and healthcare professional sales and (ii) expanding our distribution to Europe and Asia. To implement our growth strategy, we anticipate (i) increasing our marketing to healthcare professionals and end consumers, (ii) entering into distribution agreements with manufacturers and formulators in Europe and Asia and (iii) developing our branded product lines. Our existing capital resources and cash flows from operations are not adequate to satisfy the liquidity requirements of our business for the next 12 months. We plan on our operating business in conjunction with proceeds from debt and equity financings completed in 2016 and early 2017 to be able to fund operations through 2017. However, if available funds are not sufficient to meet our current operating expenses or plans for expansion, we plan to pursue alternative financing arrangements, including bank loans, advances from our directors and officers or funds raised through offerings of our equity or debt. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: investors perceptions of, and demand for, companies in our industry; conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; and economic, political and other conditions in the U.S. There is no assurance we will be successful in locating a suitable financing transaction in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, there is no assurance we will obtain the capital we require by any other means. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Also, the rights and preferences of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly-issued securities may include preferences or superior voting rights, be combined with the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, or be the issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Furthermore, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition. If we cannot raise additional funds on favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to carry out all or parts of our strategy to maintain our growth and competitiveness or to continue operations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately, which could adversely affect our competitive position and reduce the value of our products and brands, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We attempt to strengthen and differentiate our products by developing new and innovative yeast beta glucan products and manufacturing processes. As a result, our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important assets to our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and protect our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties in the U.S. and other international markets. Despite our efforts, any of the following may reduce the value of our owned and used intellectual property: issued patents and trademarks that we own or have the right to use may not provide us with any competitive advantages; 11 our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our intellectual property; our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we use or develop; another party may obtain a blocking patent and we would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested feature in our products or services; or we may not have the financial resources to aggressively protect our intellectual property. Policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation might be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights, which may be costly and may divert our managements attention away from our core business. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that litigation would result in an outcome favorable to us. To date, we have no knowledge of any infringement of our intellectual property by third parties. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, it would have a negative impact on our operations. We may be subject to claims that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others, which could require us to obtain a license or otherwise change our manufacturing processes or product offerings. Although we do not believe any of our products or manufacturing processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there is no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us or that any such assertions or prosecutions will not have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, we are not aware of any material infringement nor have we been put on notice by third parties of any material infringement of proprietary rights of others. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be asserted successfully, defending against such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities. In addition, assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions that prevent us from distributing our products. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license to the intellectual property rights that are in dispute. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, which could force us to change our manufacturing processes or product offerings. We incur significant costs as a result of our operating as a public reporting company and our managements requirement to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. While we are a public company quoted on the OTC Markets-OTCQB, our compliance costs prior to the effectiveness of our registration statement were not substantial in light of our limited operations and limited public reporting obligations. As a company subject to public reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, since May 2012 we have incurred increased legal, accounting and other expenses. The costs of preparing and filing annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the SEC and furnishing audited reports to shareholders is time-consuming and costly, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. It will also be time-consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management has limited or no experience operating a company subject to the rules and reporting practices required by the federal securities laws and applicable to a publicly traded company. Our management currently relies in many instances on the professional experience and advice of third parties including our attorneys and accountants. Our current management and staff will need to be trained and we will need to retain additional financial reporting, internal control and other personnel in order to develop and implement appropriate accounting, internal controls and reporting procedures. 12 Due to our financial condition, we have not been able to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, and we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are required to establish and maintain internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure