Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources for further information about these covenants. The restrictive covenants in the May 2020 Credit Agreement require us to satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to satisfy those tests can be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, the May 2020 Credit Agreement contains a financial maintenance covenant requiring compliance with a maximum leverage ratio as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the May 2020 Credit Agreement could result in an event of default. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may result in the acceleration of any other debt we may incur to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness or be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms acceptable to us. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or 33 unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions, along with restrictions that may be contained in agreements evidencing or governing other future indebtedness, may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our growth strategy. The transition away from LIBOR may adversely affect our cost to obtain financing. On July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rates after 2021. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority and the ICE Benchmark Administration (the IBA) ceased publication in their current form for (i) 1-week and 2-month U.S. Dollar LIBOR rates immediately following the publication on December 31, 2021 and announced they will cease publication in their current form for overnight, 1-month, 3-month, 6-month and 12-month LIBOR rates immediately following the publication on June 30, 2023. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of U.S. financial market participants, selected and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has recommended the Secured Overnight Finance Rate (SOFR), as an alternative to LIBOR. SOFR is a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash in the overnight U.S. treasury repo market. There can be no assurance that rates linked to SOFR or associated changes to the adoption of SOFR will be as favorable to us as LIBOR and may result in an effective increase in the applicable interest rate on our current or future debt obligations, including our May 2020 Credit Agreement. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our Principal Stockholders control us, and their interests may conflict with ours or yours. As of December 31, 2021, investment entities affiliated with TPG Inc. ("TPG"), affiliates of Silversmith Capital Partners ("Silversmith"), and affiliates of Summit Partners ("Summit" and together with TPG and Silversmith, our "Principal Stockholders"), collectively, beneficially owned approximately 64.3% of our common stock. The Principal Stockholders together will control the vote of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, which enables them to control the election of the members of the Board of Directors and other corporate decisions. Even when the Principal Stockholders cease to own shares of our stock representing a majority of the total voting power, for so long as the Principal Stockholders continue to own a significant percentage of our stock, the Principal Stockholders will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our Board of Directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. Accordingly, for such period of time, the Principal Stockholders will have significant influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers, decisions on whether to raise future capital and amending our charter and bylaws, which govern the rights attached to our common stock. In particular, for so long as the Principal Stockholders continue to own a significant percentage of our stock, the Principal Stockholders will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of us or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of us and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. The Principal Stockholders and their affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in the healthcare industry generally. In the ordinary course of their business activities, the Principal Stockholders and their affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders, such as investing in or advising businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that none of the Principal Stockholders, any of their affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) or its affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. The Principal Stockholders also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, each of the Principal Stockholders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. We are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of Nasdaq and, as a result, we qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections as those afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such governance requirements. The Principal Stockholders together control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of Nasdaq. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: the requirement that a majority of our Board of Directors consist of independent directors; 34 the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committees purpose and responsibilities; the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committees purpose and responsibilities; and the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We may elect to utilize one or more of these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq. We are an emerging growth company and our compliance with the reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Acts of 2012 (the JOBS Act), and may remain an emerging growth company for up to five years. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and may also take advantage of the reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements and the exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and obtaining stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result, the information we provide stockholders is different than the information that is available with respect to other public companies. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period. We have in the past and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of Nasdaq, and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. We expect that we will need to hire additional accounting, finance, and other personnel in connection with our efforts to comply with the requirements of being, a public company, and our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time towards maintaining compliance with these requirements. Our management and other personnel has and will also need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time towards compliance with the additional reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These requirements have and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future or fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting. If our remediation of the material weaknesses is not effective, or we fail to develop and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable laws and regulations could be impaired, which could harm our business and negatively impact the value of our common stock. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 35 We did not design and maintain an effective control environment commensurate with our financial reporting requirements due to an insufficient complement of resources in the accounting/finance and IT functions, with an appropriate level of knowledge, experience and training. This material weakness contributed to the following additional material weaknesses: We did not maintain formal accounting policies and procedures, and did not design and maintain controls related to significant accounts and disclosures to achieve complete, accurate and timely financial accounting, reporting and disclosures, including controls over account reconciliations, segregation of duties and the preparation and review of journal entries. These material weaknesses resulted in material misstatements related to the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations that impacted the classification of intangible assets and goodwill, related impacts to amortization and income tax expense, and the restatement of our previously issued annual consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 with respect to such intangibles assets acquired in business combinations. Additionally, these material weaknesses could result in a misstatement of substantially all of the financial statement accounts and disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. We did not design and maintain effective controls over IT general controls for information systems that are relevant to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Specifically, we did not design and maintain: (i) program change management controls for financial systems to ensure that information technology program and data changes affecting financial IT applications and underlying accounting records are identified, tested, authorized and implemented appropriately; (ii) user access controls to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and that adequately restrict user and privileged access to financial applications, programs, and data to appropriate Company personnel; (iii) computer operations controls to ensure that critical batch jobs are monitored and data backups are authorized and monitored; and (iv) testing and approval controls for program development to ensure that new software development is aligned with business and IT requirements. These IT deficiencies did not result in a material misstatement to our consolidated financial statements; however, the deficiencies, when aggregated, could impact maintaining effective segregation of duties, as well as the effectiveness of IT-dependent controls (such as automated controls that address the risk of material misstatement to one or more assertions, along with the IT controls and underlying data that support the effectiveness of system-generated data and reports) that could result in misstatements potentially impacting all financial statement accounts and disclosures that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, we have determined these deficiencies in the aggregate constitute a material weakness. We are in the process of designing and implementing measures designed to improve our internal control over financial reporting and remediate the control deficiencies which led to the material weaknesses. As of December 31, 2021, we are in process of performing the following remedial actions: hired, and plan to continue to hire, additional accounting and IT personnel to enhance our technical reporting, transactional accounting, and IT capabilities. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2021, we have implemented external financial reporting and internal audit functions to support our regulatory external financial reporting objectives; performance of detailed risk assessments for significant financial processes to identify, design, and implement control activities related to internal control over financial reporting, including enhancement of account reconciliations, journal entries, and monitoring controls; development and implementation of controls related to the formalization of our accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting; development and implementation of IT security and governance controls to address program change of internally and externally developed system and computer operations associated with information systems impacting the preparation of our consolidated financial statements; and development and implementation of controls related to the periodic monitoring and review of user access rights, the identification and risk ranking of segregation of duties conflicts, and, where it is determined there is a need for an individual to have conflicting access, a periodic review of the underlying activities is performed by an independent person who does not have such conflicting access. 36 We have made progress towards designing and implementing the plan to remediate the material weaknesses and will continue to review, revise, and improve the design and implementation of our internal controls as appropriate. Although we have made enhancements to our control procedures, these material weaknesses will not be considered remediated until our controls are operational for a sufficient period of time, tested, and management concludes that these controls are operating effectively. We intend to evaluate current and projected resource needs on a regular basis and hire additional qualified resources as needed. Our ability to maintain qualified and adequate resources to support the Company and our projected growth will be a critical component of our internal control environment. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure