ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act) that reflect managements current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These statements are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by the Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used herein, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, future, intend, plan, predict, project, target, potential, will, would, could, should, continue or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks relating to the Companys business, industry, and the Companys operations and results of operations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. The forward-looking statements made in this report are based only on events or information as of the date on which the statements are made in this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date on which the statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should read this report and the documents we refer to in this report and have filed as exhibits to this report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. These risks include, by way of example and without limitation: our ability to successfully commercialize our products and services on a large enough scale to generate profitable operations; our ability to maintain and develop relationships with customers and suppliers; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or new brands; the impact of competitive products and pricing; supply constraints or difficulties; general economic and business conditions; our ability to continue as a going concern; our need to raise additional funds in the future; our ability to successfully recruit and retain qualified personnel; our ability to successfully implement our business plan; our ability to successfully acquire, develop or commercialize new products and equipment; intellectual property claims brought by third parties; and the impact of any industry regulation. 19 Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, or performance. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in the future operating results over time except as required by law. We believe that our assumptions are based upon reasonable data derived from and known about our business and operations. No assurances are made that actual results of operations or the results of our future activities will not differ materially from our assumptions. As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and unless otherwise indicated, the terms Company, we, us, and our refer to Conversion Labs, Inc. (formerly known as Immudyne, Inc.) and our majority-owned subsidiaries LegalSimpli Software, LLC, a Puerto Rico limited liability company (LegalSimpli), Conversion Labs PR, LLC (formerly Immudyne PR LLC), a Puerto Rico limited liability company (Conversion Labs PR), and Conversion Labs Asia Limited, a Hong Kong company (Conversion Labs Asia). Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars. Corporate History and Overview Conversion Labs, Inc. is a diversified online direct response marketing company that creates, in-licenses, and acquires proprietary and innovative consumer products that address large unmet needs in the online marketplace. We sell our products directly to consumers through advertisements on Facebook, Google, Amazon, and other social media and e-commerce platforms. Secondarily, we sell our products to traditional retailers, wholesalers and physicians offices. We currently have four commercial stage brands in our portfolio: Shapiro MD: Launched in 2017, Shapiro MD is a patented line of shampoo, conditioner and leave-in foamer for thicker, fuller hair. The Shapiro MD line also includes a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved minoxidil product and a supplement for hair loss. iNR Wellness MD: Launched in 2018, iNR Wellness MD is a beta glucan nutritional supplement for immune support. There are a multitude of published studies, many noted on the National Institute of Health website, relating to the health benefits of beta glucan. The FDA and the European Food Safety Authority have approved health claims related to the maintenance or reduction of blood cholesterol and consumption of 3 grams of beta-glucan daily. Scarology: Launched in 2019, Scarology is a proprietary 3 step Scar Care System designed to improve the overall color, texture and appearance of scars. The system consists of a natural fruit acid exfoliator, a proprietary scar healing cream and silicon scar sheets. PDF Simpli: Launched in 2018, PDF Simpli is a PDF conversion software product, which was acquired through the purchase of 51% of the membership interests of LegalSimpli Software, LLC, a Puerto Rico limited liability company, which operates a marketing-driven software solutions business. We launched our online direct marketing business in the fourth quarter of 2015 with the establishment of a partnership with Inate Skincare, LLC (Inate). Our initial intention was to launch a skin care line containing our proprietary ingredients and to market such products directly to consumers. We entered into a limited liability company operating agreement with our joint venture partners with respect to Inate under the legal name Immudyne PR LLC (Immudyne PR). On April 1, 2016, the original operating agreement of Immudyne PR was amended and restated and we increased our ownership and voting interest in Immudyne PR to 78.2%. Subsequently, concurrent with the name change of the parent company to Conversion Labs, Inc., Immudyne PR was renamed to Conversion Labs PR LLC. 20 Our priority is to pursue opportunities to market our products and increase sales. We expect that a significant component of our selling, general and administration expenses going forward will consist of advertising fees and service fees to maintain skilled professionals to market our products online. These aforementioned costs, along with the additional costs resulting from our operations as a public reporting company, could adversely impact our future results of operations. We historically have expended a significant amount of our funds on obtaining and protecting our patents, trade secrets and proprietary products. We rely on the patent and trademark protection laws in the U.S. to protect our intellectual property and maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. We have historically operated with limited capital and have funded operations in the past through the sales of our products and loans and advances from our executives and directors. Divestiture of Nutraceutical and Cosmetic Additives Business Throughout 2017, we manufactured, distributed and sold natural immune support products containing our proprietary yeast beta glucans, a group of beta glucans naturally occurring in the cell walls of yeast that have been shown through testing and analysis to support the immune system. Beta glucans, or -Glucans, are a natural extract that are considered to be biological response modifiers that support the immune system. The most common sources of beta glucans are from the cell walls of bakers yeast, the cellulose in plants, the bran of cereal grains and certain fungi and bacteria. In the first quarter of 2018 we sold all assets and liabilities related to our legacy business that manufactured raw yeast beta glucan. As a result of this divestiture, we now solely operate our online direct marketing business through our majority-owned operating subsidiary, Conversion Labs PR. Our Products We currently have four commercial stage brands. Generally, our business model is to license or acquire innovative products that address large, global unmet needs which can be placed onto our internet based or online direct response marketing platform. We seek to protect the market position of our products with intellectual property, trade secrets, trademarks and brand equity. Our brands and products are as follows: Shapiro MD Launched in the second quarter of 2017, Shapiro MD is a patented line of hair products designed to help men and women regain thicker, fuller and healthier looking hair. The products in our Shapiro MD line currently include a shampoo, a conditioner, a leave-in foamer, and a product which contains Minoxidil, an FDA-approved product for hair growth. Additionally, we are in the process of adding an FDA-cleared laser cap to our Shapiro MD product line. The Shapiro MD Shampoo and Conditioner are the result of 15 years of research and development by Dr. Steven Shapiro and Dr. Michael Borenstein. The Shapiro MD product line is protected by two U.S. patents and typically contains three naturally-occurring dihydrotestosterone (DHT) blocking ingredients. DHT is widely believed to be the main culprit of balding/hair-loss. Clinical research on the ingredients used in Shapiro MD products has been published in scientific journals, including U.S. National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health, International Journal of Dermatology and European Hair Research Society. iNR Wellness MD Launched in 2018, iNR Wellness MD is a nutritional supplement for immune support. The iNR Wellness product line is a daily nutritional supplement that contains yeast, oat, and mushroom beta glucans. Beta glucans, or -Glucans, are a natural extract considered to be biological response modifiers that support the immune system. Our three naturally occurring beta glucans have clinically shown to support the human immune system and are commonly used as an OTC supplement to reduce cholesterol levels, maintain healthy blood glucose levels, and support the immune system. Our spokespersons for our iNR Wellness MD brand include Dr. Joseph DiTrolio, Dr. Jack Gilbert, and Dr. Liz Lipski, who are leading doctors/researchers in fields such as urology, microbiology, and nutrition. General scientific research on beta glucans has been conducted in recent years by renowned medical laboratories, including Baylor College of Medicine, U.S. Armed Forces Radiobiology Institute, Stanford University, Harvard University, and North Carolina State University. As more studies are conducted on beta glucans, we believe the potential benefits to human health will continue to emerge. Although the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has historically endorsed the consumption of oat glucan/dietary fiber as an aid to lower cholesterol, most of the testing and analysis or scientific research mentioned in this annual report has not been subject to oversight of the FDA or any comparable regulatory body, and no regulatory body has attested to the efficacy of beta glucans in supporting the immune system or treating disease. Further, the marketing of beta glucans is not subject to FDA approval, and we are prohibited by Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and FDA regulations from suggesting in advertisements and product labels that our products mitigate, treat, cure or prevent a specific disease or class of disease. 21 PDF Simpli Launched in 2018, PDFSimpli is a PDF conversion software, which we acquired in June 2018 through the purchase of 51% of the membership interests of LegalSimpli Software, LLC, a Puerto Rico limited liability company. PDFSimpli enables users to convert, edit and sign PDF documents and has had over 3 terabytes of documents converted or edited by customers from the legal, financial, real-estate and academic sectors. As of February 28, 2019, PDFSimpli was ranked in the top 100,000 websites globally, in which it was also ranked in the top 2,500 for specific countries and has more than 650,000 registered users globally. PDFSimpli has had over 3 terabytes of documents converted or edited by customers from the legal, financial, real-estate and academic sectors. Scarology Launched in 2018, Scarology is a topically applied scar healing solution delivered through a day and night routine. The system consists of a natural fruit acid exfoliator, a proprietary scar healing cream and silicon scar sheets. The Scarology system was developed by two prominent dermatologists and has been tested extensively in a clinical environment. The current global scar treatment market is estimated to be more than $10 billion and is expected to grow to more than $34.5 billion by 2025. Growth Strategy We actively seek to acquire, license and develop products and brands with large untapped e-commerce potential and proven business models. We intend to continue to grow revenue and profitability of our three commercial stage consumer products. We also expect that PDFSimpli will continue to grow and will achieve profitability in 2019. We continue to actively seek new brands to buy or license to expand our product offerings and add to our growth. We have begun selling all of our products in international markets and we believe this represents a significant growth opportunity for us. We also entered into a strategic partnership in Asia in 2018. We are in the process of building an e-commerce infrastructure in Asia where we anticipate completion in the first half of 2019. In early 2019, we also launched a service-based business under the name Conversion Labs Media LLC, which will be used to run e-commerce marketing campaigns for other online businesses. Conversion Labs Media LLC intends to develop, run, and optimize advertising and media strategies for third parties looking to continue their growth on online platforms such as Amazon, Google, and Facebook. These services will be monetized through a monthly consulting model or on a revenue share basis. Material Developments During the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Resignation of Chief Financial Officer On February 9, 2019, Robert Kalkstein, Chief Financial Officer of Conversion Labs, Inc., tendered his resignation to the Companys Board of Directors, effective March 31, 2019. Mr. Kalkstein did not resign as a result of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the Companys operations, policies or practices. Mr. Kalkstein will continue to serve as an advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. In connection with Mr. Kalksteins resignation, the Company agreed to amend that certain consulting agreement entered into on September 26, 2017, by and between the Company and Mr. Kalkstein (the Kalkstein Consulting Agreement), to: (i) forego $32,500 of the $42,500 cash currently owed to Mr. Kalkstein pursuant to the Kalkstein Consulting Agreement; (ii) decrease the exercise price of 500,000 options to purchase the Companys common stock previously granted to Mr. Kalkstein (the Kalkstein Options) from $0.40 per share to $0.28 per share; (iii) accelerate the vesting of 150,000 Kalkstein Options with such options to vest on March 31, 2019; and (iv) cancel 200,000 unvested Kalkstein Options, the vesting of which was not accelerated. 22 Appointment of Chief Financial Officer On February 11, 2019, in connection with Mr. Kalksteins resignation, the Board appointed Mr. Juan Manuel Pieiro Dagnery, the Controller of the Company prior to appointment, as Chief Financial Officer, effective March 31, 2019. On March 15, 2019, the Company and Mr. Pieiro entered into an employment agreement (the Pieiro Agreement) effective as April 1, 2019, whereby Mr. Pieiro shall earn a salary of $84,000 per annum (the Pieiro Salary). In addition to the Pieiro Salary, he shall be eligible for an annual discretionary bonus of up to 100% of the Pieiro Salary and subject to approval of the Board, the Company shall issue Mr. Pieiro options to purchase 500,000 shares of the Companys common stock at an exercise price of $0.23 per share (the Options). The Pieiro Agreement may be terminated without notice by either party at any time for any reason. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Revenue and Operating Expenses Our revenue, operating expenses and net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are summarized as follows: For the Three Months Ended March 31 2019 March 31 2018 Net sales $ 2,698,990 $ 1,606,491 Cost of sales 677,973 25 % 355,453 22 % Gross profit 2,021,017 75 % 1,251,038 78 % Operating expenses 2,584,386 96 % 1,530,352 95 % Operating (loss) (563,369 ) (21 )% (279,314 ) (17 )% Other income (expenses) (170,194 ) (6 )% (6,450 ) - % Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes (733,563 ) (27 )% (285,764 ) (18 )% Income from discontinued operations, including gain on sale, net of income taxes - - % - - % Net income (loss) (733,563 ) (27 )% 639,974 40 % Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interests (69,816 ) (3 )% 12,697 1 % Net (loss) income attributable to Conversion Labs, Inc. $ (663,747 ) (25 )% $ 627,277 39 % Net Sales Sales were approximately $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to approximately $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase of approximately 68% is attributed mainly to revenue from the purchase of the majority of LegalSimpli and more resources being invested into our in-licensed patented hair loss shampoo, conditioner, and leave in foam continuing to increase during the first quarter of 2019. 23 Cost of Sales Total cost of sales was approximately $678,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to approximately $355,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase is primarily due to the revenue increase from the purchase of the majority of LegalSimpli. This increase was partially mitigated by our ability to secure better inventory pricing and margin of our in-licensed patented hair loss shampoo, conditioner, and leave in foam during the first quarter of 2019. Cost of sales consists primarily of material costs and related overhead directly attributable to the production of our products. Cost of Sales as a percentage of income decreased as we were able to take advantage of volume pricing discounts from our vendors. Gross Profit Gross profit was approximately $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to approximately $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of approximately 62%. The increase in our gross profit was primarily the result of the increased sales of our in-licensed patented hair loss shampoo, conditioner and leave-in foam. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased approximately 69% to approximately $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from approximately $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase in our operating expenses between the periods was mostly attributable to our increased marketing efforts for our in-licensed patented hair loss shampoo, conditioner and leave-in foam, which increased approximately $795,000 over from the three-months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three-months ended March 31, 2018. We also had increased professional fees, compensation and related expense costs, and lower general and administrative expense during the comparable period. Net Income Net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was approximately $733,000, compared to net income of approximately $640,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Our net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was mostly attributable to our increased marketing efforts, whereas our net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was mostly attributable to the sale of the Companys legacy business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Working Capital The following table sets forth a summary of working capital as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018: March 31, December 31, 2019 2018 Current assets $ 1,671,286 $ 1,605,070 Current liabilities 2,274,172 1,192,397 Working capital $ (602,886 ) $ 412,673 We had a negative net working deficit of $602,886 at March 31, 2019, resulting in a decrease of $1,080,412 in working capital from net working capital of $412,673 at December 31, 2018. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 0.69 to 1 at March 31, 2019. 24 Cash Flows The following table sets forth a summary of changes in cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 546,464 $ 65,928 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (500,000 ) 190,000 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 15,702 (167,479 ) Change in cash $ 62,166 $ 88,449 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $546,464 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily due to increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $747,429, stock compensation expense of $154,600 and amortization of debt discount of 131,596. Net cash from operating activities was $65,928 for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Cash from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to the net income of $639,974. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $500,00 for payments related to the purchase of LegalSimpli. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $190,000 for proceeds related to the sale of the legacy business. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash provided by financing activities was $15,702 of which $50,000 was received from the issuance of notes, partially offset by distributions to noncontrolling interest totaling $34,298. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was $167,479 which related to the payment of notes payable. Going Concern and Future Financing Our principal demands for liquidity are to increase sales via online marketing, purchase inventory and for sales distribution and general corporate purposes. We incurred negative operating cash flows of our continued operations to date in 2019 as well as in the 2018 fiscal year. As a result, we have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We will require additional funds to implement our growth strategy for our business. In addition, while we have received capital from various private placements and convertible loans that have enabled us to fund our operations, these funds have been largely used to supplement our working capital, although additional funds are needed for other corporate operational and working capital purposes. At this time and at our current burn rate, we have sufficient capital to fund our operations through the balance of this fiscal year. At this time, we have not determined the amount that may be needed. These funds may be raised through equity financing, debt financing, or other sources, which may result in further dilution in the equity ownership of our shares. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or, if available, that it can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to obtain the additional financing on a timely basis should it be required, or generate significant material revenues from operations, we will not be able to meet our other obligations as they become due and we will be forced to scale down or perhaps even cease our operations. Equity Financings On January 1, 2019, in connection with the Companys agreement with JLS Ventures, LLC, the Company issued 1,000,000 shares of restricted stock to JLS Ventures, LLC. 25 On February 27, 2019, the Company entered into a short-term note agreement for $100,000 that was repaid prior to the end of this quarter. As part of the note agreement, the Company issued 100,000 restricted shares of common stock to the note holder valued at $16,000. Debt Financings None. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in the notes to our financial statements included herein for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, as filed with the SEC on March 29, 2019. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Any recently issued accounting pronouncements are more fully described in Note 1 to our financial statements included herein for the quarter ended March 31, 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook The Company has funded operations in the past through the sales of its products, issuance of common stock and through loans and advances from officers and directors. The Companys continued operations are dependent upon obtaining an increase in its sales volume and the continued financial support from officers and directors or the issuance of additional shares of common stock. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the basis that the Company will continue as a going concern, which assumes the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. At March 31, 2019, the Company has an accumulated deficit approximating $12.9 million and a working capital deficit approximating $668,000. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Based on the Companys cash balance at December 31, 2018, and projected cash needs for 2019, management estimates that it will need to increase sales revenue and/or raise additional capital to cover operating and capital requirements for the 2019 year. Management will need to raise the additional needed funds through increased sales volume, issuing additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, or obtaining debt financing. Although management has been successful to date in raising necessary funding, there can be no assurance that sales revenue will substantially increase or that any required future financing can be successfully completed on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to the Company.