ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act) that reflect managements current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These statements are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by the Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used herein, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, future, intend, plan, predict, project, target, potential, will, would, could, should, continue or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks relating to the Companys business, industry, and the Companys operations and results of operations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. The forward-looking statements made in this report are based only on events or information as of the date on which the statements are made in this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date on which the statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should read this report and the documents we refer to in this report and have filed as exhibits to this report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. These risks include, by way of example and without limitation: our ability to successfully commercialize our products on a large enough scale to generate profitable operations; our ability to maintain and develop relationships with customers and suppliers; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses or new brands; the impact of competitive products and pricing; supply constraints or difficulties; general economic and business conditions; business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war, and terrorism or disease outbreaks (such as the recent outbreak of COVID-19, or the novel coronavirus); our ability to continue as a going concern; our need to raise additional funds in the future; our ability to successfully recruit and retain qualified personnel; our ability to successfully implement our business plan; our ability to successfully acquire, develop or commercialize new products and equipment; intellectual property claims brought by third parties; and the impact of any industry regulation. 20 Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, or performance. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in the future operating results over time except as required by law. We believe that our assumptions are based upon reasonable data derived from and known about our business and operations. No assurances are made that actual results of operations or the results of our future activities will not differ materially from our assumptions. As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and unless otherwise indicated, the terms Company, we, us, and our refer to Conversion Labs, Inc. (formerly known as Immudyne, Inc.), our wholly subsidiary Conversion Labs PR, LLC (formerly Immudyne PR LLC, now Conversion Labs PR), a Puerto Rico limited liability company (Conversion Labs PR) and our majority-owned subsidiaries LegalSimpli Software, LLC, a Puerto Rico limited liability company (LegalSimpli), Conversion Labs PR, LLC (formerly Immudyne PR LLC, now Conversion Labs PR), a Puerto Rico limited liability company (Conversion Labs PR), Conversion Labs Media, LLC (CVLB Media), a Puerto Rico limited liability company, Conversion Labs Rx, LLC (CVLB Rx), a Puerto Rico limited liability company, and Conversion Labs Asia Limited, a Hong Kong company (Conversion Labs Asia). Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars. Corporate History Conversion Labs, Inc., was formed in the State of Delaware on May 24, 1994, under our prior name, Immudyne, Inc. We changed our name to Conversion Labs, Inc. on June 22, 2018. Further, in connection with changing its name, the Company changed its trading symbol to CVLB. On April 1, 2016, with respect to a limited liability company operating agreement with joint venture partners for one of our skincare products under the legal name Immudyne PR LLC (Immudyne PR), such original operating agreement of Immudyne PR was amended and restated and we increased our ownership and voting interest in Immudyne PR to 78.2%. Concurrent with the name change of the parent company to Conversion Labs, Inc. completed in 2018, Immudyne PR was renamed to Conversion Labs PR LLC (now known as Conversion Labs PR). On April 25, 2019, the operating agreement of Conversion Labs PR was amended and restated in its entirety after acquiring the minority interest in the Conversion Labs PR, which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In June 2018, Conversion Labs closed the strategic acquisition of 51% of LegalSimpli Software, LLC, a software as a service (SaaS) application for converting, editing, signing and sharing PDF documents. In addition to LegalSimpli Softwares growth business model, this acquisition added deep search engine optimization and search engine marketing expertise to the Company. In early 2019, we also launched a service-based business under the name Conversion Labs Media LLC, which was to be used to run e-commerce marketing campaigns for other online businesses. However, this business was discontinued in 2019 in order to focus on our core business as well the expansion of our telehealth opportunities. In June 2019, a joint venture with GoGoMeds.com was formed through our majority-owned subsidiary, Conversion Labs Rx, LLC, allowing us to market branded and generic prescription drugs that are then sold and shipped (via GoGoMeds) online directly to consumers in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Business Overview The Company is a direct response healthcare company that provides a convenient, cost-effective and smarter way for consumers to access high quality Over The Counter (OTC) products and prescription medications. The U.S. healthcare system is undergoing a paradigm shift largely due to new technologies and the emergence of direct-to-consumer healthcare. We believe the traditional model of visiting a doctors office, receiving a physical prescription, visiting a neighborhood pharmacy, and returning to see a doctor for follow up care or prescription refills is inefficient, costly to patients, and discourages many patients from seeking much needed medical care. Direct-to-consumer telemedicine companies, like our Company, offer patients immediate and virtual treatment from licensed physicians, and the home delivery of prescription medications, devices and diagnostics bundled with over-the counter wellness products. 21 We believe that many people can relate to the hassle and inconvenience of seeking medical care. According to a November 2018 Merritt Hawkins Survey, the average wait time to see a doctor is now 29 days, and in major cities such as Boston, the average wait is now 109 days. With the U.S. projected to be short 121,300 doctors by 2030, wait times are likely to grow worse. Timely and convenient access to healthcare and prescription medications is a critical factor in improving quality of care and patient outcomes. We believe that, because of this importance and the growing demand from patients, telemedicine platforms like ours can fundamentally change the market for healthcare in the U.S. Our mission is to build a portfolio of direct to consumer wellness brands that encompass on-demand medical treatment, online pharmacy and over-the-counter products. We want our brands to be top-of-mind for consumers and sought after for their proprietary characteristics and endorsements by thought leading physicians and influencers. While not the first company in telemedicine, we are an early mover that has made investments in technology and people that we believe will pay long-term dividends. According to a 2018 Euromonitor estimate, the market for direct to consumer healthcare products is estimated at $700 billion in global annual sales. Alliance Bernstein estimates that the disruptable market for online pharmacy in the U.S. is in the $300 billion dollar range, and they estimate that up to 70% of this market will move from traditional pharmacies to online pharmacies over the next ten years. The opportunities are immense, and we believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on these large scale economic shifts in healthcare. We believe that product innovation and excellence are the heart of our business. As is exemplified with our first brand, Shapiro MD, we have built a full line of proprietary OTC products for male and female hair loss, FDA approved OTC minoxidil, an FDA-cleared medical device, and now a personalized telemedicine offering that gives consumers access to virtual medical treatment and a full line of oral and topical prescription medications for hair loss. Our mens telemedicine brand, Rex MD, currently offers treatment for erectile dysfunction, and we will soon offer treatments for longevity, strength and endurance, hair loss, skin care and other products we identify that can improve the lives of patients and customers. We have built a platform that allows us to efficiently launch telehealth and wellness product lines wherever we determine there is a market need. Our platform is supported by a driven team of digital marketing and branding experts, data analysts, designers, and engineers focused on building enduring brands. Telemedicine Platform Beginning in 2019, we have made significant investments in our telemedicine technology platform which is the backbone of our physician network, pharmacy provider, CRM software, and third-party advertising platforms. This platform facilitates patient consultations, virtual prescriptions, fulfillment, and follow-up consultations. Direct-To-Consumer Channel We actively seek to acquire, license and develop products and brands with large untapped e-commerce potential and proven business models. Our products are marketed and sold directly to consumers through advertisements on Facebook, Google, Amazon, and other social media and e-commerce platforms. We intend to continue to grow revenue and profitability of our four commercial stage consumer and telehealth brands. We also expect that PDFSimpli, our PDF conversion software product, will continue to grow and achieve profitability in the short term. We continue to actively seek new brands to buy or license to expand our product offerings and add to our growth. Our Brands We understand that life is more than just survival and that health and wellness should also encompass the way our body feels, looks, and performs. Our brands aim to bring this holistic understanding to the consumer, with messaging that is clear, scientific, and thoughtful. The product offerings behind each brand are thoughtfully considered and tested to ensure they answer consumer needs, preferences, and feedback. Our brands aim for customer satisfaction at every step of the process, from learning, ordering, fulfillment, and reordering. Our current brand portfolio is comprised of brands respectively targeting four market segments: hair loss, immune health, mens health, and disaster preparedness. 22 Hair Loss: Shapiro MD Launched in 2017, Shapiro MD is a brand for hair loss in both men and women. Shapiro MDs product offerings include both over-the-counter and prescription products and/or ingredients that have been rigorously studied for their effects in treating hair loss. Since beginning with a proprietary patented hair loss product line of shampoo, conditioner, and leave-in-foamer, Shapiro MDs product portfolio has grown to now include U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved medications such as minoxidil and finasteride, and an over-the-counter supplement for hair loss. In March of 2020, the Company received FDA 510(k) clearance for the Shapiro MD Laser Hair Restoration Device. Hair loss is a deeply personal problem that affects people psychologically in addition to its physical effects, this is why we are committed to the continued expansion of Shapiro MD to be one of the leading online destinations for clinically studied and proven solutions for both male and female hair loss. We are currently exploring proprietary compounded prescription products for product portfolio expansion. On February 21, 2020, ConsumersAdvocate.org ranked Shapiro MD as the third best hair loss treatment provider in the United States, ahead of other household brands such as Bosley, Keeps and Rogaine. We believe that the combination of Shapiro MDs patented over-the-counter product line with prescription medications and our soon to be FDA-cleared laser hat, will lead to a big increase in brand awareness, customer satisfaction, retention rates and overall profitability. Immune Health: iNR Wellness MD Launched in 2018, iNR Wellness MD is a supplement for immune and gut support. The iNR Wellness product line is a daily nutritional supplement that contains yeast, oat, and mushroom beta glucans. Our spokesperson for our iNR Wellness MD brand is Dr. Joseph DiTrolio, a member of the Board of Directors of the Company and an opinion-leading physician, professor of surgery, innovator, and public servant. Mens Health: Rex MD Launched in 2019, Rex MD is a mens health brand currently offering personalized treatment plans from licensed physicians in 50 states for erectile dysfunction. After consultation with a physician, if appropriate, we dispense and ship prescription medication directly to patients. We are initially focused on generic Viagra and Cialis but intend to expand our product offering to include treatment for cold sores, mental health, and many other common medical conditions faced by men. Our vision for Rex MD is to become a leading telemedicine destination for men. Disaster Preparedness: SOSRx SOSRx, launched in the first quarter of 2020, is a telemedicine brand intended to offer prescription medications and over-the-counter emergency preparation supplies for disaster situations such as flu epidemics, bacterial outbreaks, bioterrorism and water supply failure, among others. Our research indicates that vital supplies and prescription medications may be rapidly depleted during high-demand situations caused by disasters, and we believe that pre-prescribing certain medications and supplies can serve to reduce strain during emergency situations. Following the launch of this brand, we also intend to target the travel preparedness market with prescription medications that can address common illnesses seen in overseas travel such as travelers diarrhea- the most common travel-related illness. We believe strong potential for earned media exists for SOSRx, and are in the process of identifying influencers and opinion leaders in emergency preparation and public health that will serve to drive brand awareness and brand equity upon launch. 23 Majority Owned Subsidiary: PDFSimpli PDFSimpli is a PDF conversion software product, which was acquired through the purchase of 51% of the membership interests of LegalSimpli Software, LLC, a Puerto Rico limited liability company, which operates a marketing-driven software solutions business. PDFSimpli enables users to convert, edit and sign PDF documents. As of March 1, 2020, PDFSimpli was ranked in the top 5,750 websites globally, in which it was also ranked in the top 1,200 for specific countries with more than 4.5 million registrants globally. Since its launch, PDFSimpli has converted or edited over 5 terabytes of documents for customers from the legal, financial, real-estate and academic sectors. PDFSimpli has over 39,000 active subscriptions as of March 1, 2020. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic We are closely monitoring how the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus is affecting our employees, customers and business operations. We have developed preparedness plans to help safeguard the safety of our employees and customers, while safely continuing business operations. Due to the global spread of the outbreak, the severity of the pandemic in New York, California, and Puerto Rico where we have corporate offices, and in line with guidance from public health officials, we have temporarily restricted access to our offices and implemented a mandataory remote work policy during this period. Our offices will remain closed until we are able to safely and responsibly re-open them in accordance with governmental and public health guidance, as well as health and safety policies tailored to our operations. As a result of the early measures we took in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to protect our employees and business operations, our business has not been materially negatively impacted during these extraordinary times. We have experienced relatively minor impacts on our inventory availability and delivery capacity since the outbreak, none of which has materially impacted our ability to service our customers. We have taken measures to bolster key aspects of our supply chain to support our continued growth. We continue to work with our existing manufacturing, logistics and other supply chain partners to build key processes to ensure our ability to service our customers. We are also carefully monitoring shifting consumer behavior from physical healthcare offices to our online platform. As of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we have observed continued strength in our e-commerce sales since the end of the quarter ended March 31, 2020, due in part to changing consumer behavior during the COVID-19 pandemic and a multi-year high in e-commerce marketing efficiency due to recent declines in advertising costs. Telehealth businesses, such as ours, have benefitted from the increased coverage and visibility of telehealth, partly due to quarantine measures and policies adopted widely across the country. We believe the the increased awareness of telehealth is reflected in the rapid growth we are seeing across our telehealth brands, particularly in Rex MD. Our core brands, most notably Shapiro MD and Rex MD, have experienced rapid growth due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the silmultaneous increase in e-commerce and telehealth. Website traffic to Rex MD and Shapiro MD has increased 371% and 91% respectively from our fourth quarter of 2019 to this first quarter of 2020. Our subscription growth has also increased dramatically quarter over quarter. Shapiro MD experienced a 96% increase in customers on subscriptions and Rex MD experienced a 1,380% increase in customers on subscriptions. We believe that subscription growth is an indicator of better retention and the long term profitability of our customer base. Although there is significant uncertainty relating to the trajectory of the COVID-19 pandemic and the longer term impact of the virus on consumer behavior, we believe our business is well positioned for continued growth and profitability later this year. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Our financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2020 are summarized as follows in comparison to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ % of Sales $ % of Sales Product revenues, net $ 2,955,801 69 $ 2,421,526 90 Software revenues, net 1,349,011 33 277,464 10 Service revenues, net - 0 2,000 - Total revenues, net 4,304,812 100 2,698,990 100 Cost of product revenue 1,344,160 31 677,973 25 Cost of software revenue 415,479 10 34,472 1 Total cost of revenue 1,759,639 41 712,445 25 Gross profit 2,545,173 59 1,986,545 75 Total operating expenses 4,285,678 100 2,549,914 95 Loss from operations (1,740,505 ) (59 ) (563,369 ) (21 ) Other expenses 793,039 (27 ) 170,194 (6 ) Loss from operations before provision for income taxes (2,533,544 ) (86 ) (733,563 ) (27 ) Net loss $ (2,533,544 ) (86 ) $ (733,563 ) (27 ) Net loss attributable to non-controlling interests (138,816 ) (5 ) (69,816 ) (3 ) Net loss attributable to Conversion Labs, Inc. $ (2,394,728 ) (81 ) $ (663,747 ) (3 ) Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were approximately $4.3 million, an increase of 59.5% compared to approximately $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Our increase in revenues was primarily attributable to both the increase in software revenues which accounts for approximately 33% of revenues and which increased as a result of successful online marketing efforts and Rex MD. 24 Cost of product revenues consists primarily of product material costs and fulfillment costs directly attributable to the production of our products. Cost of software revenue consist primarily of credit card processing fees and information technology fees related to our online platform. Total cost of revenue increased by approximately 147.0% to approximately $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to approximately $700,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in cost of revenues was due to increased revenues and related increase in merchant and other processing fees incurred to generate revenues from our products segment and increased margins on revenues of LegalSimpli software subscriptions. Gross profit increased by approximately 28.1% to approximately $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to approximately $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. This is a result of increased sales. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues decreased to approximately 59% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 from approximately 74% for the three months ended March 31, 2019. This is due to the shift in the composition of revenues between periods from primarily supplement products sold at a lower margin. The decrease is also due to the acquisition of LegalSimpli which, as a software product, cost of sales can fluctuate due to volatility in merchant processing costs. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Selling & marketing expenses $ 2,745,882 $ 1,692,178 General and administrative expenses 1,168,978 477,582 Operating expenses 124,491 203,432 Customer service expenses 168,185 130,984 Development costs 78,142 45,738 Total operating expenses $ 4,285,678 $ 2,549,914 Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2020 were approximately $4.3 million, as compared to approximately $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. This represents an increase of 68%, or $1.7 million. The increase is primarily attributable to: (i) Selling and marketing expenses mainly consist of online marketing and advertising expenses. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company had an increase of approximately $1 million in selling and marketing expenses was a result of additional marketing expenses to drive further revenue growth through all of 2020. (ii) General and administrative expenses mainly consist of payroll expenses for executive management, stock-based compensation, amortization expense and legal and professional fees. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company has an increase of approximately $700,000 in general and administrative expenses mainly related to increased infrastructure resulting from increased sales. (iii) Other operating expenses consist of rent, insurance, bank charges, royalty expenses, IT services for our online products business and office supplies. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company had a decrease of approximately $78,000 mainly related to a decrease in the Companys royalty expenses. (iv) Customer service expenses consist of payroll and benefit expenses related to the Companys customer service department located in Puerto Rico. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company had an increase of approximately $37,000 mainly related to an increase in headcount for the Companys customer service. (v) Development costs mainly relate to third-party technology services for developing and maintaining our online platform for LegalSimpli. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company had an increase of approximately $32,000 mainly as a result of technology platform improvements for LegalSimpli and amortization expenses at CVLB PR. 25 Other Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Interest expense $ 793,039 $ 170,194 Total $ 793,039 $ 170,194 Other expense for the three months ended March 31, 2020 increased by $623,000 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in other expense is primarily attributable to an increase in the amortization of debt discount. Working Capital March 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 Current assets $ 1,571,843 $ 2,747,402 Current liabilities 4,639,464 3,975,442 Working capital $ (3,067,621 ) $ (1,228,340 ) Current assets decreased by $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. This is primarily attributable to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $750,00 due to payments of convertible notes and a decrease in inventory of $400,000. Current liabilities increased by $600,000, which was primarily attributable to an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities as a result of the Company extending payables and credit terms with vendors during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 Net loss $ (2,533,544 ) $ (733,563 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 661,355 546,464 Net cash (used in) investing activities (468,400 ) (500,000 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (941,702 ) 15,702 Net increase (decrease) in cash $ (748,747 ) $ 62,166 Since inception, the Company has funded operations through the revenues of its products, issuance of common stock, through loans and advances from officers and directors and the issuance of convertible notes from third-party investors. Net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $661,355 for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared with net cash used in operating activities of approximately $546,464 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $468,400, as compared with net cash provided by investing activities of $500,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to continued payments on the Companys purchase of LegalSimpli of $400,000 and the cash paid for capitalized software costs of $68,400. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $941,702, as compared with net cash provided by financing activities of $15,702 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, financing activities consisted of proceeds from convertible notes payable $750,000, which were offset by the repayment of notes payable of $1,640,702 and payment for debt issuance costs of $15,000. 26 Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook The Company has funded operations in the past through the sales of its products, issuance of common stock and through loans and advances from officers and directors. The Companys continued operations are dependent upon obtaining an increase in its sales volume and the continued financial support from officers and directors, obtaining funding from third-party sources or the issuance of additional shares of common stock. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the basis that the Company will continue as a going concern, which assumes the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. As of March 31, 2020, the Company has an accumulated deficit approximating $20.4 million and has experienced significant losses from continuing operations. Based on the Companys cash balance as of March 31, 2020, and projected cash needs, management estimates that it will need to increase sales revenue and/or raise additional capital to cover operating and capital requirements for the 2020 year. Management will need to raise the additional needed funds through increased sales volume, issuing additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, or obtaining debt financing. Although management has been successful to date in raising necessary funding, there can be no assurance that sales revenue will substantially increase or that any required future financing can be successfully completed on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to the Company. Based on these circumstances, management has determined that these conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in the notes to our financial statements. We believe that the accounting policies below are critical for one to fully understand and evaluate our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition The Company records revenue under the adoption of ASC 606 by analyzing exchanges with its customers using a five-step analysis: 1. Identify the contract 2. Identify performance obligations 3. Determine the transaction price 4. Allocate the transaction price 5. Recognize revenue For the Companys product-based contracts with customers, the Company has determined that there is one performance obligation and the delivery of this performance obligation is transferred at a point in time. The Company generally records sales of finished products once the customer places and pays for the order and the product is simultaneously shipped, but in limited cases if title does not pass until the product reaches the customers delivery site, then recognition of revenue should be deferred until that time, however the Company does not have a process to properly record the recognition of revenue if orders are not immediately shipped. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, which is usually upon shipment of the product. The Company does sell a subscription based service which is based on the recurring shipment of products and billed as if the Company were receiving recurring revenues and orders each month, therefore, the Company records these upon shipment to the customer. The Company records an estimate for provisions of discounts, returns, allowances, customer rebates and other adjustments for each shipment, and are netted with gross sales. The Companys discounts and customer rebates are known at the time of sale and the Company appropriately debits net product revenues for these transactions based on the known discount and customer rebates. The Company estimates for customer returns and allowances based on estimates of historical transactions and accounts for such provisions during the same period in which the related revenues are earned. The Company has determined that the population of contracts with customers tends to be homogenous, so that review of the contracts and estimate of various revenue related adjustments can be applied to the entire portfolio population. 27 The Company began testing trial offers with the Shapiro MD products in late 2018. The Company was unable to adequately implement a process to report any trial-based sales and the related impact on inventory. Given the relatively new trail period being offered, the Company has not been able to estimate the historical effect to determine how this will change the recording of revenue. The Company offers a suite of software to customers as a monthly subscription based service. This suite of software allows the user or subscriber to convert almost any type of document to other editable document type formats for easy editing. For these subscription-based contracts with customers, the Company offers a 14-day trial period which is billed at $1.95 for an initial period, a monthly subscription, or a yearly subscription to the Companys software. The Company has estimated that there is one product and performance obligation that is delivered over time, as the Company allows the subscriber to access the service for the time period purchased. The Company allows the customer to cancel at any point during the billing cycle, in which case the customers subscription will not be renewed for the following month or year depending on the original subscription. The Company records the sales over the customers subscription period for monthly and yearly subscribers or at the end of the initial 14 day service period for customers who purchased the initial subscription. The Company offers a discount for purchase of the monthly and yearly subscriptions, which must be paid at the initiation of the contract term, so that the contract price is fixed at the contract initiation. Yearly and monthly subscriptions for the subscription are recorded net of the Companys known discount. As of the three ends March 31, 2020 and as the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company has accrued contract liabilities of approximately $303,000 and $110,00, respectively which represent obligation on in-process monthly or yearly contracts with customers and yet to be recognized initial 14-day trial periods. Customer discounts, returns and rebates on product revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and three months ended March 31, 2019 approximated $314,000 and $328.000, respectively. Customer discounts and allowances on software revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and the three months ended March 31, 2019 approximated $163,000 and $26.500, respectively. Capitalized Software Costs The Company capitalizes certain payroll and third-party costs related to internally developed software and amortize these costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, generally two years. The Company does not sell internally developed software. Certain development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalization, in accordance with ASC 350-40 Internal-Use Software, are expensed as incurred. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company capitalized $108,400 and $0 related to internally developed software costs which is included in development . As of March 31, 2020, these costs include $40,000 in capitalized stock based compensation that was given to a third-party service provider. During the three months ending March 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company amortized $2,551 and $0 of capitalized software costs. Intangible Assets Intangible assets are comprised of customer relationship asset and purchased licenses with estimated useful lives of three years and indefinite lived, respectively. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated lives using the straight-line method. Costs incurred to renew or extend the term of recognized intangible assets are capitalized and amortized over the useful life of the asset. Income Taxes The Company files corporate federal and state tax returns. Conversion Labs PR and LegalSimpli file tax returns in Puerto Rico, both are limited liability companies and file separate tax returns with any tax liabilities or benefits passing through to its members. The Company records current and deferred taxes in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Accounting for Income Taxes. This ASC requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences between tax basis of assets and liabilities and the amounts at which they are carried in the financial statements, based upon the enacted rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The Company establishes a valuation allowance when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The Company periodically assesses the value of its deferred tax asset, a majority of which has been generated by a history of net operating losses and determines the necessity for a valuation allowance. ASC 740 also provides a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Using this guidance, a company may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position in its financial statements only if it is more likely-than-not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50%) that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The Companys tax returns for all years since December 31, 2016, remain open to taxing authorities. 28 Stock-based Compensation The Company follows the provisions of ASC 718, Share-Based Payment. Under this guidance compensation cost generally is recognized at fair value on the date of the grant and amortized over the respective vesting or service period. The fair value of options at the date of grant is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The expected option life is derived from assumed exercise rates based upon historical exercise patterns and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The expected volatility is based upon historical volatility of the Companys common stock shares using weekly price observations over an observation period that approximates the expected life of the options. The risk-free rate approximates the U.S. Treasury yield curve rate in effect at the time of grant for periods similar to the expected option life. Due to limited history of forfeitures, the estimated forfeiture rate included in the option valuation was zero. Many of the assumptions require significant judgment and any changes could have a material impact in the determination of stock-based compensation expense. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting that expands the scope of ASC Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. An entity should apply the requirements of ASC Topic 718 to nonemployee awards except for certain exemptions specified in the amendment. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim reporting periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted, but no earlier than an entitys adoption date of Topic 606. We do not expect the implementation of this new pronouncement to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-11, Earnings Per Share (Topic 260) and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815)- Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Down Round Features (ASU 2017-11). Equity-linked instruments, such as warrants and convertible instruments may contain down round features that result in the strike price being reduced on the basis of the pricing of future equity offerings. Under ASU 2017-11, a down round feature will no longer require a freestanding equity-linked instrument (or embedded conversion option) to be classified as a liability that is remeasured at fair value through the income statement (i.e. marked-to-market). However, other features of the equity-linked instrument (or embedded conversion option) must still be evaluated to determine whether liability or equity classification is appropriate. Equity classified instruments are not marked-to-market. For earnings per share (EPS) reporting, the ASU requires companies to recognize the effect of the down round feature only when it is triggered by treating it as a dividend and as a reduction of income available to common shareholders in basic EPS. The amendments in this ASU are effective for all entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. This standard was adopted on January 1, 2020 and did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to stockholders. 29