Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Our Business and other sections in this report. Other sections of this report include additional factors that could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Unless otherwise indicated, information in this report concerning economic conditions and our industry is based on information from independent industry analysts and publications, as well as our estimates. Except where otherwise noted, our estimates are derived from publicly available information released by third party sources, as well as data from our internal research, and are based on such data and our knowledge of our industry, which we believe to be reasonable. Unless otherwise indicated, none of the independent industry publication market data cited in this report was prepared on our or our affiliates behalf. The forward-looking statements made in this report are based only on events or information as of the date on which the statements are made in this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date on which the statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should read this report and the documents we refer to in this report and have filed as exhibits to this report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Additional information on the various risks and uncertainties potentially affecting our operating results are discussed in this report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. As used in this report, Immudyne, Company, we, our and similar terms refer to Immudyne, Inc., unless the context indicates otherwise. ii PART I Item 1. Business Our Company We are an internet based direct response marketing company that in-licenses, acquires or creates innovative and proprietary products that can be sold to consumers around the world via our technology infrastructure and relationships with agencies, third party marketers, and online advertising platforms such as Facebook and Google. We currently have two commercial stage products and intend to launch an additional four products in 2018. Our leading product, launched in the second quarter of 2017, is a patented shampoo, conditioner, and leave-in foamer for thicker, fuller hair. Our second product, launched in the first quarter of 2018, is a nutritional supplement for immune support. We launched our online direct marketing business in the fourth quarter of 2015 with the establishment of a partnership with Inate Skincare, LLC (Inate). Our initial intention was to launch a skin care line containing our proprietary ingredients and to market such products directly to consumers. The Company entered into a limited liability company operating agreement with its joint venture partners with respect to Inate under the legal name Immudyne PR LLC (Immudyne PR). On April 1, 2016, the original operating agreement of Immudyne PR was amended and restated and we increased our ownership and voting interest in Immudyne PR to 78.16667%. Divestiture of Yeast Beta Glucan Business Throughout 2017, we manufactured, distributed and sold natural immune support products containing our proprietary yeast beta glucans, a group of beta glucans naturally occurring in the cell walls of yeast that have been shown through testing and analysis to support the immune system. Beta glucans, or -Glucans, are a natural extract that are considered to be biological response modifiers that support the immune system. The most common sources of beta glucans are from the cell walls of bakers yeast, the cellulose in plants, the bran of cereal grains and certain fungi and bacteria. In 2017, our yeast beta glucan nutraceutical and cosmetic product lines consisted of our natural, premium yeast beta glucans in oral and topical applications. We offered our yeast beta glucans as natural raw material ingredients in bulk quantities, our Nutraceutical and Cosmetic Additives segment, and finished, consumer products packaged under our brands as well as private label brands, our Finished Cosmetic Products segment, which were marketed directly to consumers. In the first quarter of 2018 we sold assets and certain liabilities related to our legacy business that manufactured raw yeast beta glucan. As a result of this divestiture, we solely operate our online direct marketing business owned by Immudyne PR. Our Current Products We currently have 2 commercial stage products and 2 development stage product in our portfolio. We have several additional products that we intend to in-license in 2018, subject to negotiations and definitive agreements. Generally, our business model is to license or acquire innovative products that address large, global unmet needs which can be placed onto our internet based or online direct response marketing platform. All of our products are proprietary and exclusively marketed by Immudyne and our partners. We seek to protect the market position of our products with intellectual property, trade secrets, trademarks and brand equity. Shapiro MD The Shapiro MD product line is a unique hair care aid developed to help men & women regain thicker, fuller and healthier looking hair. Shapiro MD Shampoo & Conditioner are the result of 15 years of research and development by thought-leading dermatologists Dr. Steven Shapiro and Dr. Michael Borenstein. 1 The Shapiro MD product line is protected by two U.S. patents and contains three naturally-occurring dihydrotestosterone (DHT) blocking ingredients. DHT is widely believed to be the main culprit of balding/hair-loss. Clinical research on the ingredients used in Shapiro MD products has been published in prominent scientific journals, including US National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health, International Journal of Dermatology and European Hair Research Society. iNR Wellness iNR Wellness is a daily nutritional supplement that contains yeast, oat, and mushroom beta glucans. Beta glucans, or -Glucans, are a natural extract considered to be biological response modifiers that support the immune system. Our three naturally occurring beta glucans have clinically shown to support the human immune system and are commonly used as an OTC supplement to reduce cholesterol levels, manage blood glucose levels, and support the immune system. General scientific research on beta glucan derived from yeast cell walls has been conducted in recent years by renowned medical laboratories, including Baylor College of Medicine, U.S. Armed Forces Radiobiology Institute, Stanford University, Southwest Research Institute, and North Carolina State University. As more studies are conducted on beta glucans, we believe the potential benefits to human health will continue to emerge. Although the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has historically endorsed the consumption of oat glucan/dietary fiber as an aid to lower cholesterol, most of the testing and analysis or scientific research mentioned in this annual report has not been subject to oversight of the FDA or any comparable regulatory body, and no regulatory body has attested to the efficacy of beta glucans in supporting the immune system or otherwise treating disease. Further, the marketing of beta glucans is not subject to FDA approval, and we are prohibited by Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and FDA regulations from suggesting in advertisements and product labels that our products mitigate, treat, cure or prevent a specific disease or class of disease. Scarology Scarology is a scar healing topical solution delivered through a day and night routine. Three essential ingredients work together to achieve dramatic results in appearance and feel. The product is clinically tested and developed by prominent dermatologists. We expect the Scarology product launch in the second quarter of 2018. None of the testing and analysis or scientific research mentioned in this annual report on Form 10-K has been subject to the oversight of the FDA or any comparable regulatory body, and no regulatory body has attested to the efficacy of our products. Further, our current products are marketed as cosmetics and nutritional supplements, and we are prohibited by FTC and FDA regulations from suggesting in advertisements and product labels that our products mitigate, treat, cure or prevent a specific disease or class of disease. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing strategy primarily consists of utilizing our online direct response platform technology to sell the innovative products that we have licensed, acquired or created. Our priority is to build brand recognition across our product lines and actively pursue opportunities to market our products and increase sales. We leverage the worlds largest social media and online sales platforms such as Google, Facebook and Amazon to capture customers and market health and wellness products globally. Additionally, we sell our products through our own websites at www.inrwellness.com and www.shapiromd.com. Our expertise in digital marketing allows us to target consumers most likely to purchase our products, serve these consumers an advertisement, and convert these consumers into customers. We plan to combine this highly scalable paid media business model with other direct to consumer approaches such as television, radio and influencer marketing. We also intend to sell our products in retail stores and through physician offices. 2 Manufacturing We use third party contractors for the manufacturing, encapsulation, bottling and labeling of our personal care and nutritional supplement products. These contractors are certified to produce organic products, subject to regular government inspections, and to the best of our knowledge, comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices and hold the necessary drug manufacturing licenses and processed food registrations required by their respective state regulators. Customers We sell our products directly to consumers internationally through online channels. Over 90% of consolidated 2017 sales consisted of customers in the U.S. Penetrating international markets is a significant opportunity for the Companys near-term growth. Our priority is to maximize the long-term value of each customer through proper pricing strategies, retargeting, customer service and through database management. We have served over 50,000 customers since implementing direct selling strategies into our business model in 2016. One customer, M.M.P., accounted for 25% of net sales during 2017. Competition The markets for nutritional supplements and skin care products are highly competitive, consisting of a large number of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, none of which dominates the fragmented and diverse market. The Company's competitors include, among others, Guthy Renker LLC, L'Oral S.A., Atlantic Coast Media Group, LLC, Hims, Inc. and The Este Lauder Companies Inc. Some of our competitors are significantly larger than we are, have a longer operating history, higher visibility and brand recognition, and greater financial resources than we do. Intellectual Property We rely primarily on proprietary trade secrets and know-how to operate our online direct response marketing platform. We have two U.S. patents relating to our Shapiro MD products method for treatment of hair loss with a combination of natural ingredients. In order to protect the confidentiality of our intellectual property, including trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary technical and business information, it is our policy to limit access to such information to those who require access in order to perform their functions and to enter into agreements with employees, consultants and vendors to contractually protect such information. Governmental and Environmental Regulation Our business and the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our beta glucan products are regulated in the U.S. primarily by the FDA and the FTC. The FDA enforces the FDCA and Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) as they pertain to foods, food ingredients, cosmetics and dietary supplement production and marketing. Dietary supplements and nutraceuticals are regulated as a category of food, not as drugs. We are not required to obtain FDA pre-market approval to sell our products in the United States under current laws. The FDA imposes GMP guidelines to ensure that dietary supplements are produced in a quality manner, do not contain contaminants or impurities and are accurately labeled. GMPs include requirements for establishing quality control procedures, designing and constructing manufacturing plants, testing ingredients and finished products and record keeping and handling of consumer product complaints. The FDA has broad authority to enforce the provisions of federal law applicable to dietary supplements and cosmetics, including the power to monitor claims made in product labeling, to seize adulterated or misbranded products or unapproved new drugs, to request product recall, to enjoin further manufacture or sale of a product, to issue warning letters and to institute criminal proceedings. 3 Advertising and product claims regarding the efficacy of products are also regulated by the FTC. The FTC regulates the advertising of dietary supplements and other health-related products to ensure that any advertising is truthful and not misleading, and that an advertiser maintains adequate substantiation for all product claims. FTC enforcement actions may result in consent decrees, cease and desist orders, judicial injunctions and the payment of fines with respect to advertising claims that are found to be unsubstantiated. Under current U.S. regulations, our products must comply with certain labeling requirements enforced by the FDA and FTC, but otherwise generally are not required to receive regulatory approval prior to introduction into the U.S. market. We believe we are in compliance with all material government regulations applicable to our products. In addition to the foregoing, our operations are subject to federal, foreign, state and local government laws and regulations, including those relating to zoning, workplace safety and accommodations for the disabled, and our relationship with our employees is subject to regulations, including minimum wage requirements, anti-discrimination laws, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. We currently do not incur any material costs in connection with our compliance with applicable environmental laws as our manufacturing processes generate minimal discharge. Furthermore, the cost of maintaining compliance with applicable environmental laws has not, and we believe, in the future, will not, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all material governmental regulations applicable to our operations. Where You Can Find More Information Our website address is www.immudyne.com . We do not intend our website address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate by reference the contents of the website into this Report. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0030. The SEC maintains an Internet website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan, and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business The report of our independent registered public accounting firm contains explanatory language that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. The independent auditors report on our financial statements contains explanatory language that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern as of December 31, 2017. If we are unable to fund operations through our operating business and are unable to obtain sufficient financing in the near term as required or achieve profitability, then we would, in all likelihood, experience severe liquidity problems and may have to curtail our operations. If we curtail our operations, we may be placed into bankruptcy or undergo liquidation, the result of which will adversely affect the value of our common shares. 4 We have generated losses and not yet achieved positive cash flows, which may adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve revenue growth, profitability or positive cash flow, on either a quarterly or annual basis, or that profitability, if achieved, will be sustained. Our ability to meet our long-term business objectives likely will be dependent upon establishing increased cash flow from operations or securing other sources of financing. If our losses continue, however, our liquidity may be severely impaired, our stock price may fall and our shareholders may lose all or a significant portion of their investment. We may not be able to implement our growth and marketing strategy successfully or on a timely basis or at all. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to implement our growth strategy of expanding distribution and sales of our product portfolio, attracting new consumers to our brand and introducing new product lines and product extensions. Our ability to implement this growth strategy depends, among other things, on our ability to: enter into distribution and other strategic arrangements with other potential distributors of our all-natural raw material products; increase our brand recognition; expand and maintain brand loyalty; and research new applications for existing products and develop new product lines and extensions. Our sales and operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to implement our growth strategy or if we invest resources in a growth strategy that ultimately proves unsuccessful. Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the integrity of data belonging to our Company could expose us to data loss, litigation and liability, and our reputation could be significantly harmed. We collect and retain large volumes of data relating to our business and from our customers for business purposes, including for transactional and promotional purposes, and our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. The integrity and protection of this data is critical to our business. We are subject to significant security and privacy regulations, as well as requirements imposed by the credit card industry. Maintaining compliance with these evolving regulations and requirements could be difficult and may increase our expenses. In addition, a penetrated or compromised data system or the intentional, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss or fraudulent or unlawful use of data relating to our company or our employees, independent distributors or preferred customers, which could harm our reputation, disrupt our operations, or result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits. If we undertake product recalls or incur liability claims with respect to our products, such recalls or claims could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Our yeast beta glucan nutraceutical products are designed for human consumption and we face product recalls or liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or death. To date, we have not (i) conducted any product recalls, (ii) received any product liability claims from third parties, or (iii) received any reports from an end consumer of any adverse effect resulting from our products. A product recall or liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we do maintain product liability insurance coverage we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of any product liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of product liability litigation or other proceedings could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. 5 If we lose our President and Chief Executive Officer, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, the quality of our products may decline and our business may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Justin Schreiber. Loss of his services could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives, if we are unable to find a suitable replacement. Mr. Schreiber is an integral factor in establishing relationships and the continued development of our business depends upon his continued employment. If he were to resign or retire, we would have to find a suitable replacement who shared his expertise and relationships. Any delay in finding a suitable replacement would adversely affect the pace at which we are able to successfully grow our business and could harm our existing business, resulting in a decrease in sales and revenue. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled personnel and consultants. While we have been able to find a sufficient number of skilled personnel consistent with our growth to date, we cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed by us for any period of time or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future consistent with our growth. Such loss of personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and company. Furthermore, we may need to employ additional personnel to expand our business. Qualified employees and consultants in the dietary supplement industry are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers requirements. There is no assurance we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates could impair the growth of our business. Risk Factors related to Marketing Our capital requirements will depend on many factors. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the revenues generated by sales of our products; the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts, including efforts to hire independent agents and sales representatives and obtain required regulatory approvals and clearances; the expenses we incur in developing and commercializing our products, including the cost of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals; and unanticipated general and administrative expenses. Because of these factors, we may seek to raise additional capital both to meet our projected operating plans and to fund our longer term strategic objectives. Additional capital may come from public and private equity or debt offerings, borrowings under lines of credit or other sources. These additional funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. There can be no assurance we will be successful in raising these additional funds. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, obtain the required regulatory clearances or approvals, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 6 Our future growth and profitability of our consumer product business will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing efforts and our ability to select effective markets and media in which to advertise. Our consumer products business success depends on our ability to attract and retain customers, which significantly depends on our marketing practices. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing efforts, including our ability to: create greater awareness of our brand; identify the most effective and efficient levels of spending in each market, media and specific media vehicle; determine the appropriate creative messages and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures; effectively manage marketing costs (including creative and media) to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs; acquire cost-effective television advertising; select the most effective markets, media and specific media vehicles in which to advertise; and convert consumer inquiries into actual orders. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe the nutritional supplement market is highly dependent upon consumer perception regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements generally, as well as of products distributed specifically by us. Consumer perception of our products can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, regulatory investigations, litigation, national media attention and other publicity regarding the consumption of nutritional supplements. We cannot assure you that future scientific research, findings, regulatory proceedings, litigation, media attention or other favorable research findings or publicity will be favorable to the nutritional supplement market or any product, or consistent with earlier publicity. Future research reports, findings, regulatory proceedings, litigation, media attention or other publicity that are perceived as less favorable than, or that question, such earlier research reports, findings or publicity could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and consequently on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our dependence upon consumer perceptions means that adverse scientific research reports, findings, regulatory proceedings, litigation, media attention or other publicity, if accurate or with merit, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products, the availability and pricing of our ingredients, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, adverse public reports or other media attention regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements in general, or our products specifically, or associating the consumption of nutritional supplements with illness, could have such a material adverse effect. Any such adverse public reports or other media attention could arise even if the adverse effects associated with such products resulted from consumers failure to consume such products appropriately or as directed and the content of such public reports and other media attention may be beyond our control. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our products compete and will compete with other similar products produced by our competitors. These competitive products could be marketed by well-established, successful companies that possess greater financial, marketing, distributional, personnel and other resources than we possess. Using these resources, these companies can implement extensive advertising and promotional campaigns, both generally and in response to specific marketing efforts by competitors, and enter into new markets more rapidly to introduce new products. In certain instances, competitors with greater financial resources also may be able to enter a market in direct competition with us, offering attractive marketing tools to encourage the sale of products that compete with our products or present cost features that consumers may find attractive. 7 We may never develop any additional products to commercialize. We have invested a substantial amount of our time and resources in developing various new products. Commercialization of these products will require additional development, clinical evaluation, regulatory approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial additional investment before they can provide us with any revenue. Despite our efforts, these products may not become commercially successful products for a number of reasons, including but not limited to: we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our products, or the approved indication may be narrower than we seek; our products may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials; we may experience delays in our development program; any products that are approved may not be accepted in the marketplace; we may not have adequate financial or other resources to complete the development or to commence the commercialization of our products or will not have adequate financial or other resources to achieve significant commercialization of our products; we may not be able to manufacture any of our products in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; rapid technological change may make our products obsolete; we may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property rights or we may become subject to claims that our activities have infringed the intellectual property rights of others; and we may be unable to obtain or defend patent rights for our products. If we are unable to maintain sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or maintain arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our products, our business may be harmed. To achieve commercial success for our products, we must sell our product lines and/or technologies at favorable prices. In addition to being expensive, maintaining such a sales force is time-consuming. Qualified direct sales personnel with experience in the natural products industry are in high demand, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain an effective direct sales team. Similarly, qualified independent sales representatives both within and outside the United States are in high demand, and we may not be able to build an effective network for the distribution of our product through such representatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into contracts with representatives on terms acceptable to us. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to build an alternate distribution framework should we attempt to do so. We may also need to contract with third parties in order to market our products. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform marketing and distribution services, our product revenue could be lower and our costs higher than if we directly marketed our products. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with other companies, any revenue received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we will not be able to generate product revenue, and may not become profitable. 8 Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may lose part or all of your investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: market conditions or trends in the dietary supplement industry or in the economy as a whole; actions by competitors; actual or anticipated growth rates relative to our competitors; the publics response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC; economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; any future guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance or any difference between our guidance and actual results; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; speculation by the press or investment community regarding our business; litigation; changes in key personnel; and future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant shareholders. In addition, the stock markets, including the over-the-counter markets where we are quoted, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These broad market fluctuations may materially affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Furthermore, the market for our common stock historically has been limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. The price at which investors purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. In the past, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Future sales of shares of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock. In addition, if our significant shareholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares, the market price of our stock could decline. Any issuance of additional common stock by us in the future, or warrants or options to purchase our common stock, if exercised, would result in dilution to our existing shareholders. Such issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium to the then-current trading price of our common stock. Moreover, the perception in the public market that shareholders might sell shares of our stock or that we could make a significant issuance of additional common stock in the future could depress the market for our shares. These sales, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock or make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. 9 We have issued shares of common stock and warrants and options to purchase shares of our common stock in connection with our private placement and certain employment, director and consultant agreements. In addition, we issued shares of our common stock, and options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, in financing transactions and pursuant to employment agreements that are deemed to be restricted securities, as that term is defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. From time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their restricted shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, subject to certain limitations. The resale pursuant to Rule 144 of shares acquired from us in private transactions could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We are an Emerging Growth Company (EGC), and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to Emerging Growth Companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an EGC, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not EGCs. The modified disclosure requirements available to EGCs include reduced disclosure about our executive compensation and omission of a compensation discussion and analysis, which is also available to us as a smaller reporting company, and an exemption from the requirement of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and the requirement that shareholders approve any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, we will not be subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the additional testing of our internal control over financial reporting as may occur when outside auditors attest as to our internal controls over financial reporting, which is also not required of smaller reporting companies. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we could lose that status sooner if our revenues exceed $1 billion, if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, or if the market value of our common stock exceeds $700 million. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile. Although the JOBS Act permits an EGC such as us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies, we are choosing to opt out of this provision, and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted, however do not currently believe that this will have a material effect on the preparation of our financial statements. This decision to opt out of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act is irrevocable. The application of the penny stock rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. Our common stock may be subject to the penny stock rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules apply to issuers whose common stock does not trade on a national securities exchange and trades at less than $5.00 per share, or that have a tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that contains the following information: a description of the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading; a description of the brokers or dealers duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies available to the customer with respect to violation to such duties or other requirements of securities laws; a brief, clear, narrative description of a dealer market, including bid and ask prices for penny stocks and the significance of the spread between the bid and ask prices; 10 a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary actions; definitions of any significant terms in the disclosure document or in the conduct of trading in penny stocks; and such other information and is in such form (including language, type, size and format), as the SEC shall require by rule or regulation. Prior to effecting any transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer also must provide the customer with the following information: bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; compensation of the broker-dealer and our salesperson in the transaction; number of shares to which such bid and ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for such stock; and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customers account. The penny stock rules further require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchasers written acknowledgment of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement, a written agreement to transactions involving penny stocks and a signed and dated copy of a written suitability statement. Due to the requirements of the penny stock rules, many broker-dealers have decided not to trade penny stocks. As a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. Moreover, if our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Our principal executive offices were in office spaces located in Mount Kisco, New York, but have relocated to 1460 Broadway, New York, NY 10036. We leased a manufacturing facility with warehouse space consisting of approximately 15,000 square feet in Florence, Kentucky, in the vicinity of the Cincinnati, Ohio, airport on a month-to-month basis for which we pay $9,050 per month. In addition, Immudyne PR operates in a subleased office space in Puerto Rico consisting of approximately 1,000 square feet for $4,000 per month. Starting in February 2018, we opened an office space in Huntington Beach, California. This office will support staff dedicated to digital marketing, including our Chief Technology Officer, Stefan Galluppi. We will pay $2,106 for the first twelve months for this space of 1,239 square feet. We believe that our existing office and manufacturing facilities are adequate for current and presently foreseeable operations. In general, our properties are well maintained and are being utilized for their intended purposes. Additional space may be required as we expand our business activities. We do not foresee any significant difficulties in obtaining additional facilities if deemed necessary. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We may become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and an adverse result in these or other matters may arise from time to time that may have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or operating results. Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves and our customers by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third party proprietary rights or to establish our proprietary rights. We are currently not aware of any such legal proceedings or claims that will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 11 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (a) Market Information Our common stock is qualified for quotation on the OTC Markets-OTCQB under the symbol IMMD and has been quoted on the OTCQB since February 8, 2013. Previously, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Markets-OTC Pink Current, also under the symbol IMMD. The following table sets forth the range of the high and low bid prices per share of our common stock for each quarter as reported in the over-the-counter markets. These quotations represent interdealer prices, without retail markup, markdown or commission, and may not represent actual transactions. There currently is no liquid trading market for our common stock. There can be no assurance that a significant active trading market in our common stock will develop, or if such a market develops, that it will be sustained. 2017 2016 High Low High Low First Quarter (through March 31) $ 0.95 $ 0.21 $ 0.33 $ 0.10 Second Quarter (through June 30) 0.62 0.24 0.40 0.17 Third Quarter (through September 30) 0.54 0.28 0.34 0.20 Fourth Quarter (through December 31) 0.51 0.34 0.30 0.21 (b) Holders of Common Equity As of March 29, 2018, there were approximately 325 shareholders of record based on information provided by our transfer agent. Many of our shares of common stock are held in street or nominee name by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders and we are unable to estimate the total number of shareholders represented by these record holders. (c) Dividend Information We have not paid and do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain all future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The declaration and payment of any cash dividends in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors, in its discretion, and will depend on a number of factors, including our earnings, capital requirements, overall financial condition and contractual restrictions, if any. (d) Securities Authorized For Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans None. Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities During the year ended December 31, 2017, we have issued the following securities which were not registered under the Securities Act and not previously disclosed in the Companys Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K. Unless otherwise indicated, all of the share issuances described below were made in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act for transactions not involving a public offering: On January 2, 2017, the Company issued an option to purchase 100,000 shares at a price of $0.40 to an employee as a bonus at a value of $24,109. This option expires on January 1, 2027. On June 1, 2017, the Company issued 125,000 shares to a third-party consultant for services rendered at a value of $45,000. On August 7, 2017, the Company issued 50,000 shares to a third-party consultant for services rendered at a value of $20,000. On August 8, 2017, the Company issued 100,000 shares to a third-party consultant for services rendered at a value of $40,000. On November 3, 2017, the Company issued 135,721 shares at a price of $0.23 per share to JOJ Holdings, LLC, an entity wholly owned by our Chief Executive Officer, as a conversion of a portion of JOJ Holdings, LLCs non-controlling interest in Immudyne PR, LLC, which was valued at $31,215.83. On November 12, 2017, the Company issued 100,000 shares to an employee as a bonus at a value of $44,000. The Company issued options and restricted stock as compensation to its officers and directors during the fiscal year 2017. Please see Item 11. Executive Compensation and Compensation of Directors for details about the issuance of these shares. Transfer Agent Our transfer agent through the period ending December 31, 2017 was Computershare Trust Company, N.A. located at Meidinger Tower, 462 S. 4 th Street, Louisville KY 40202. In March 2018, we changed our transfer agent, and we are now using World Wide Stock Transfer LLC located at One University Plaza, Suite 505, Hackensack, NJ, 07601. Item 6. Selected Financial Data Not required. 12 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, we manufactured, distributed and sold natural immune support products; namely proprietary yeast beta glucans which are natural extracts that have been shown through testing and analysis and scientific research to support the immune system. Yeast beta glucans are classified as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). We are and have been a science driven company for more than 25 years. Our products are used in oral and topical applications. Historically, we have sold our proprietary additives, for both oral and topical use, primarily via business-to-business to large dietary supplement and cosmetic companies. In 2015, we established a joint venture, that did business under the name Inate Scientific LLC (Inate), to launch a complete skin care regimen that contains our proprietary ingredients and which contributed to our revenues in the year of 2016. The Company entered into a limited liability company operating agreement with its joint venture partners with respect to Inate under the legal name Immudyne PR LLC (Immudyne PR). On April 1, 2016, the original operating agreement was amended and restated and we increased our ownership and voting interest in Immudyne PR to 78.16667%. As a result of our ownership and control of Immudyne PR, we now operate in two business segments, nutraceutical and cosmetic additives and finished cosmetic products. We have performance-based contracts with our sales and marketing executives, which allows us to continue to maintain a relatively low overhead. Our priority is to pursue opportunities to market our products and increase sales. We expect that a significant component of our selling, general and administration expenses going forward will consist of equipment leasing costs relating to improving our operating efficiencies, as well as conducting new studies which could open new markets. These aforementioned costs, along with the additional costs resulting from our operations as a public reporting company, could adversely impact our future results of operations. Additional significant factors that we believe will affect our operating results going forward are: (i) protection of our intellectual property rights; (ii) imposition of more stringent government regulations of our products; and (iii) marketing expenses. In the 2016 fiscal year, we utilized third party entities to provide and increase credit card processing capacity and optimize corresponding rates and fees through one or more merchant bank accounts held by such entities. A majority of these entities providing these services are consolidated as VIEs which received a one (1%) percent fee eliminated in consolidation of the net revenues processed and collected by such contractors from sales initiated by the Company. The remaining entities provided such services as independent contractors, the majority of which were considered related parties and no fee was paid. Upon receipt of funds by such contractors from their respective merchant banks, the Company required the prompt transfer of funds to Company controlled accounts. The Company reimbursed and/or advanced funds to such contractors for any deficit or charge related to returns, chargeback and other fees charged by such merchant bank. Some of the entities contracted to provide these services have been determined to be variable interest entities and consolidated in the Companys financial statements. By our fiscal year ending December 31, 2017, we ceased processing credit card charges through all VIE merchant accounts. At December 31, 2017, we recorded the merchant reserves from these VIE merchant accounts on our balance sheet as Accounts Receivable. 13 We historically have expended a significant amount of our funds on obtaining and protecting our patents, trade secrets and proprietary products. We rely on the patent and trademark protection laws in the U.S. to protect our intellectual property and maintain our competitive position in the marketplace We have historically operated with limited capital and have funded operations in the past through the sales of our products and loans and advances from our past President, Mark McLaughlin, and other directors. Late in the 2016 fiscal year and early in 2017, the Company issued several 11% subordinated promissory notes to accredited investors for total borrowings of $200,000, which have been satisfied in 2016 and 2017. In late 2017, we obtained $125,000 in promissory notes from our executive officers for the Immudyne PR entity, which were satisfied in early 2018. We plan on our operating business (in conjunction with proceeds from debt and equity financings completed in 2016 and early 2017) to be able to fund operations through 2018. However, in the event we require additional operating capital we may have to depend on sources other than operating revenues to meet our operating and capital needs. No assurance can be given that such sources will be available and no assurance can be given that our executive officers or other directors who have, in the past, willingly funded operations will commit to do so in the future, or that we will be successful in our endeavors to raise additional capital. For additional information regarding these and other risks please see Risk Factors contained in this annual report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2017, Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 The following table sets forth the results of our operations for the periods indicated as a percentage of net sales: 2017 2016 $ % of Sales $ % of Sales Sales 5,054,706 5,238,604 Cost of sales 1,483,686 29 % 1,946,055 37 % Gross profit 3,571,020 71 % 3,292,549 63 % Operating expenses (4,638,554 ) -92 % (4,467,231 ) -85 % Loss from operations (1,067,534 ) -21 % (1,174,682 ) -22 % Change in fair value of derivative liability 502,830 10 % - 0 % Loss on extinguishment of debt (553,222 ) -11 % - 0 % Interest (expense) (100,523 ) -2 % (48,611 ) -1 % Net (loss) (1,218,449 ) -24 % (1,223,293 ) -23 % Net (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (12,488 ) -0 % (115,749 ) -2 % Net (loss) attributable to Immudyne, Inc. (1,205,961 ) -24 % (1,107,544 ) -21 % Overall sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 were approximately $5.05 million, a decrease of 4% from approximately $5.24 million during the same period in 2016. Our decrease in sales was primarily attributable to the decrease in sales made by our finished cosmetic products segment of approximately $3.68 million, a decrease of approximately 13% from approximately $4.24 million during the same period in 2016. Net sales for our nutraceutical and cosmetic additives segment increased by approximately 37% to approximately $1.37 million, compared to approximately $1.00 million during the same period in 2016. Cost of sales consists primarily of material costs, labor costs, marketing costs and related overhead directly attributable to the production of our products. Total cost of sales decreased by approximately 24% to approximately $1.48 million in 2017 compared to approximately $1.95 million in 2016. The decrease in our cost of sales was due to our decreased sales and related reduction in merchant and other processing fees incurred to generate sales from our finished cosmetic products segment, which costs were significant in 2016. 14 Gross profit increased by approximately 8.5% to approximately $3.57 million in 2017 compared to approximately $3.29 million in 2016 as a result of our decreased cost of sales. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to approximately 71% in 2017 from approximately 63% in 2016 due to the shift in the composition of our sales between periods from primarily topical and oral additives to primarily finished products sold through Immudyne PR, which products generally have lower margins. Operating expenses consisted of general and administrative expense, compensation and related expense, marketing, and professional fees. Overall operating expenses increased by approximately 3.8% to approximately $4.64 million in 2017 from approximately $4.47 million in 2016, primarily due to increased compensation related expenses with respect to shares issued to the Companys joint venture partners pursuant to previously disclosed service agreements. General and administration expense decreased by approximately 17.6% to approximately $0.85 million in 2017 from approximately $1.03 million for in 2016. Compensation and related expense increased by approximately 36.2% to approximately $1.71 million in 2017 from approximately $1.25 million in 2016 due to the aforementioned share issuance. Marketing expense decreased by approximately 3.1% to approximately $1.66 million in 2017 from approximately $1.7 million for in 2016. Professional fees decreased by approximately 9.7% to approximately $0.43 million in 2016 from approximately $0.48 million in 2016, due to decreased legal and accounting fees incurred with respect to Immudyne PRs operations. Net loss attributable to Immudyne in 2017 was approximately $1.21 million compared to net loss of approximately $1.11 million in 2016. We consolidated the operations of our joint venture, Immudyne PR, and at December 31, 2017, reflected a non-controlling interest for 21.833% of these operations. Net loss attributable to Immudyne, Inc. as a percentage of sales was approximately 24% in 2017 compared to net loss as a percentage of sales of approximately 21% in 2016. Our net loss notwithstanding our decrease in sales was primarily due to our increased compensation expenses due to shares issued to the Companys joint venture partners pursuant to previously disclosed service agreements. We believe these costs will decrease as a percentage of sales over the course of the 2018 fiscal year as Immudyne PR continues to mature as a business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal demands for liquidity are to increase sales, purchase inventory and for sales distribution and general corporate purposes. We incurred negative operating cash flows in the 2017 and 2016 fiscal years. As a result, our auditors have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Late in the 2016 fiscal year and early in 2017, the Company issued several 11% subordinated promissory notes to accredited investors for total borrowings of $200,000 which have been satisfied in 2016 and 2017. We plan on our operating business (in conjunction with proceeds from debt and equity financings completed in 2016 and early 2017, and the sale of the legacy beta glucan business) being able to fund operations through 2018. However, if necessary, we may raise additional capital through a private placement of common stock, obtaining debt financing or from advances from our President and/or directors; however, no assurances can be made that we will be successful in our endeavors to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that required future financing can be successfully completed on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to us. Any future issuance of equity securities could cause dilution to our shareholders. Any incurrence of indebtedness would increase our debt service obligations and would cause us to be subject to restrictive operating and financial covenants. We had net working capital of $622,839 at December 31, 2017, resulting in an increase from net working deficit of ($361,725) at December 31, 2016. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 1.97 to 1 at December 31, 2017. 15 The following is a summary of cash provided by or used in each of the indicated types of activities during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (827,215 ) $ (407,914 ) Investing activities - - Financing activities 786,034 357,491 Net cash flow used by operating activities was approximately $0.83 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to net cash flow used in operating activities of approximately $0.41 million for the same period in 2016. The increase in the amount of cash used by our operating activities was due to increased compensation expenses incurred over the 2016 period. We expect that these expenses will decrease as a percentage of sales as Immudyne PR continues to mature as a business. Net cash flows provided by investing activities was $0 for the both year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Net cash flows provided by financing activities was approximately $0.79 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to net cash flows provided by financing activities of approximately $0.36 million for the same period in 2016 due to additional indebtedness and the sale of common stock via private placements incurred during the period. Indebtedness From time to time, our directors, officers and other related individuals have made short-term advances to us for our operating needs. Late in the 2016 fiscal year and early in 2017, the Company issued several 11% subordinated promissory notes to accredited investors for total borrowings of $200,000 which have been satisfied as of the date hereof. The Company is subject to a royalty agreement based upon sales of certain hair care products. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recognized $79,360 in royalty expense related to this agreement. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements On November 20, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement (the Agreement ) with JOJ Holdings, LLC ( JOJ ). Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Immudyne purchased 2,000,000 shares (post-split from a 2:1 forward split on January 16, 2018) of Blockchain Industries, Inc. (BCII) from JOJ. The Agreement was amended on December 8, 2017 and again on March 9, 2018. In consideration for the purchase, Immudyne agreed to issue one (1) share of Immudyne common stock to JOJ for every dollar Immudyne realizes from gross proceeds on the sale of shares of BCII purchased pursuant to the Agreement, up to a total maximum aggregate amount of 5,000,000 shares. The Company has 3 years to sell the shares of BCII and has agreed not to sell more than 20% of the 30-day average daily trading volume of BCII. Justin Schreiber, the Companys President and CEO, is the President and owner of JOJ. The initial assessment of this transaction was determined not to meet the basis of an exchange transaction per ASC 845-10-20. The Company will reassess the off-balance sheet arrangement at each reporting period to determine the any change in the accounting as an off-balance sheet arrangement. Critical Accounting Policies While our significant accounting policies are described more fully in Note 2 to our financial statements, we believe the following accounting policies are the most critical to aid you in fully understanding and evaluating this management discussion and analysis. 16 Basis of Presentation and Use of Estimates The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or U.S. GAAP. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Immudyne, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIE) in which the Company has been determined to be the primary beneficiary. All significant inter-company transactions and balances between the Company, its subsidiaries, and its VIEs have been eliminated in consolidation. In preparing financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates required by management include the valuation of inventory, stockholders equity-based transactions, allowance for doubtful accounts, revenue recognition and sales returns and allowances. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Inventory Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. Management compares the cost of inventory with the net realizable value and an allowance is made for writing down their inventories to net realizable value, if lower. Revenue Recognition The Companys policy is to record revenue as earned when a firm commitment, indicating sales quantity and price exists, delivery has taken place and collectability is reasonably assured. The Company generally records sales of nutraceutical and cosmetic additives once the product is shipped to the customer, and for sales of finished cosmetic products once the customer places the order and the product is simultaneously shipped, but in limited cases if title does not pass until the product reaches the customers delivery site, then recognition of revenue is deferred until that time. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. Provisions for discounts, returns, allowances, customer rebates and other adjustments are netted with gross sales. The Company accounts for such provisions during the same period in which the related revenues are earned. Customer discounts, returns and rebates in the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 approximated $259,000 and $1,926,000, respectively. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. If title does not pass until the product reaches the customers delivery site, then recognition of revenue is deferred until that time. There are no formal sales incentives offered to any of the Companys customers. Volume discounts may be offered from time to time to customers purchasing large quantities on a per transaction basis. Stock-based Compensation The Company follows the provisions of ASC 718, Share-Based Payment. Under this guidance compensation cost generally is recognized at fair value on the date of the grant and amortized over the respective vesting periods. The fair value of options at the date of grant is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The expected option life is derived from assumed exercise rates based upon historical exercise patterns and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The expected volatility is based upon historical volatility of our shares using weekly price observations over an observation period that approximates the expected life of the options. The risk-free rate approximates the U.S. Treasury yield curve rate in effect at the time of grant for periods similar to the expected option life. Due to limited history of forfeitures, estimated forfeiture rate included in the option valuation was zero. Many of the assumptions require significant judgment and any changes could have a material impact in the determination of stock-based compensation expense. Variable Interest Entities - Principles of Consolidation Generally, the Company consolidates only business enterprises that we control by ownership of a majority voting interest. However, there are situations in which consolidation is required even though the usual condition of consolidation (ownership of a majority voting interest) does not apply. Generally, this occurs when an entity holds an interest in another business enterprise that was achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting interests, which results in a disproportionate relationship between such entitys voting interests in, and its exposure to the economic risks and potential rewards of, the other business enterprise. This disproportionate relationship results in what is known as a variable interest, and the entity in which we have the variable interest is referred to as a VIE. 17 The Company follows ASC 810-10-15 guidance with respect to accounting for VIEs. A VIE is an entity that does not have sufficient equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or whose equity investors lack any of the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. A variable interest is an investment or other interest that will absorb portions of a VIEs expected losses or receive portions of the entitys expected residual returns. Variable interests are contractual, ownership, or other pecuniary interests that change with changes in the fair value of the entitys net assets. A party is the primary beneficiary of a VIE and must consolidate it when that party has a variable interest, or combination of variable interests, that provides the party with a controlling financial interest. A party is deemed to have a controlling financial interest if it meets both of the power and losses/benefits criteria. The power criterion is the ability to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance. The losses/benefits criterion is the obligation to absorb losses from, or right to receive benefits from, the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The VIE model requires an ongoing reconsideration of whether a reporting entity is the primary beneficiary of a VIE due to changes in facts and circumstances. Noncontrolling Interests The Company accounts for its less than 100% interest in Immudyne PR and its VIEs in accordance with ASC Topic 810, Consolidation, and accordingly the Company presents noncontrolling interests as a component of equity on its consolidated balance sheet and reports the noncontrolling interests share of Immudyne PR net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statement of operations. New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting. The new standard provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. This pronouncement is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 but early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (ASU 2016-15). ASU 2016-15 addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing diversity in practice regarding how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented in the statement of cash flows. The standard provides guidance on the classification of the following items: (1) debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, (2) settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments, (3) contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, (4) proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, (5) proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, (6) distributions received from equity method investments, (7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions, and (8) separately identifiable cash flows. The Company is required to adopt ASU 2016-15 for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017 on a retrospective basis. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adoption of ASU 2016-15. In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which relates to the accounting for employee share-based payments. This standard addresses several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions, including: (a) income tax consequences; (b) classification flows of awards as either equity or liabilities; and (c) classification on the statement of cash flows. This standard will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-09 on its consolidated financial statements. The adoption of ASU No. 2016-09 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements or related disclosures. 18 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes all existing guidance on accounting for leases in ASC Topic 840. ASU 2016-02 is intended to provide enhanced transparency and comparability by requiring lessees to record right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 will continue to classify leases as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of income. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. ASU 2016-02 is required to be applied with a modified retrospective approach to each prior reporting period presented with various optional practical expedients. We have reviewed ASC 842 and have determined that it will not have any material effect on our financial statements and related disclosures. In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The new revenue recognition standard (ASC 606) provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This Topic defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. The two permitted transition methods under the new standard are the full retrospective method or the modified retrospective method. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and accordingly we are required to adopt this standard effective January 1, 2018, the beginning of our fiscal year. We have reviewed ASC 606 and have determined that it will not have any material effect on our revenue recognition. In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory. ASU 2015-11 applies to inventory that is measured using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average cost. An entity should measure inventory within the scope of ASU 2015-11 at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. ASU 2015-11 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted ASU 2015-11 in 2017 and it does not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements or related disclosures. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, "Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern". This ASU is intended to define management's responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an organization's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. It is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted ASU 2014-15 in 2016 and it does not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements or related disclosures. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting. The new standard provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. This pronouncement is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 but early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance. All other accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by the FASB that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements upon adoption.