Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Lightwave Logic, Inc. (the Company ) is a development stage company whose P 2 IC TM technology addresses advanced telecommunication, data communications, and data center markets utilizing its advanced organic electro-optic polymer systems. The Company currently has two business segments to support its development activities, its materials development segment located in Newark, Delaware, and its photonic device design and development segment located in Longmont, Colorado. Materials Development The Company designs and synthesizes organic chromophores for use in its own proprietary electro-optic polymer systems and photonic device designs. A polymer system is not solely a material, but also encompasses various technical enhancements necessary for its implementation. These include host polymers, poling methodologies, and molecular spacer systems that are customized to achieve specific optical properties. Our organic electro-optic polymer systems compounds are mixed into solution form that allows for thin film application. Our proprietary electro-optic polymers are designed at the molecular level for potentially superior performance, stability and cost-efficiency. We believe they have the potential to replace more expensive, lower-performance materials and devices used in fiber-optic ground, wireless and satellite communication networks. Our patented and patent pending molecular architectures are based on a well-understood chemical and quantum mechanical occurrence known as aromaticity . Aromaticity provides a high degree of molecular stability that enables our core molecular structures to maintain stability under a broad range of polymerization conditions that otherwise appear to affect other current polymer molecular designs. We expect our patented and patent-pending optical materials along with trade secrets and licensed materials, to be the core of and the enabling technology for future generations of optical devices, modules, sub-systems and systems that we will develop or potentially out-license to electro-optic device manufacturers. The Company contemplates future applications that may address the needs of semiconductor companies, aerospace companies and government agencies. Prototype Device Design and Development Electro-optic Modulators The Company designs its own proprietary electro-optical modulation devices. Electro-optical modulators convert data from electric signals (binary data) into optical signals that can then be transmitted over high-speed fiber-optic cables. These devices are key components that have historically limited the ability of telecommunications, data communications, data centers networks to keep up with the seemingly endless flow of data in the form of voice calls, text messages, pictures, video streaming that are being transmitted to a growing array of devices. Polymer Photonic Integrated Circuits (P 2 IC TM ) The Company also designs its own proprietary Polymer Photonic Integrated Circuits. A Polymer Photonic Integrated Circuit is a photonic device that integrates several photonic functions on a single chip. We believe that our technology can enable the ultra-miniaturization needed to increase the number of photonic functions residing on a chip to create a progression like what was seen in the computer integrated circuits, commonly referred to as Moores Law. Current photonic technology is based on inorganic crystalline materials, which due to physical limitations have not been able to address devices such as slot waveguides that require highly miniaturized geometries. Slot modulators have the potential to scale in integration for increased functionality and would be highly beneficial to data center infrastructure. Organic electro-optic polymers have greater potential because they can be applied as a thin film coating. Our polymers are unique in that they can withstand extremely high semiconductor process temperatures to seamlessly integrate into existing CMOS manufacturing lines. Our devices, enabled by our organic electro-optic polymer material systems, work by affecting the optical properties of light in the presence of an electric field at extremely high frequencies (wide bandwidths) and possess inherent advantages over current crystalline electro-optic material contained in most modulator devices such as lithium niobate, indium phosphide and gallium arsenide. 14 Business Strategy Our business strategy anticipates that our revenue stream will be derived from one or some combination of the following: (i) technology licensing for specific product application; (ii) joint venture relationships with significant industry leaders; or (iii) the production and direct sale of our own electro-optic device components. Our objective is to be a leading provider of proprietary technology and know-how in the electro-optic device market. In order to meet this objective, we intend to: Further the development of proprietary organic electro-optic polymer material systems Develop photonic devices based on our P 2 IC TM technology Continue to develop proprietary intellectual property Continue to add device development capabilities Continue to add to material development capabilities Maintain/develop strategic relationships with major telecommunications and data communications companies to further the awareness and commercialization of our technology. Continue to add high-level science and technology personnel in key areas of our materials and device development programs. Create Organic Polymer-Enabled Electro-Optic Modulators We intend to utilize our proprietary optical polymer technology to create an initial portfolio of commercially feasible electro-optic polymer product devices and applications for various markets, including telecommunications, data communications and data centers. We expect our initial product device line will be a high-speed 4 x 25 Gbps ridge waveguide modulator to compete in the growing 100 Gbps modulator market. Continue to Expand Our Intellectual Property Portfolio and Reliance on Trade Secrets We plan to continuously advance the development of unique organic electro-optic polymer materials along with proprietary designs and device configurations. We intend to protect our technology by filing patent applications where appropriate or by obtaining exclusive technology rights where available. However, in some cases, we will refrain from protecting certain proprietary with patents in favor of trade secrets. Maintain/Develop Strategic Relationships Private Firms, and Academic Institutions Since the formation of our Company, we have had numerous strategic relationships with government agencies that have provided us with funding and access to important technology. From the time that we developed our own in-house testing capability and Class 100 clean room facility in Longmont, Colorado we have attempted to minimize outside academic and government agency relationships. After completion of our initial prototype ridge waveguide, we will seek to enter into partnership/JV discussions with outside parties to co-develop a slot waveguide modulator. Continue to utilize outside consultants to gain technical expertise In December 2011, we retained Dr. Frederick Leonberger, PhD as our Senior Advisor. Dr. Leonberger is the former Chief Technology Officer of JDS Uniphase, Inc. We previously retained EOvation Advisors LLC, a technology and business advisory firm founded by Dr. Frederick Leonberger, as a consultant to the Company. Dr. Leonberger is presently assisting our Company with strategic planning and the design of optical modulators that we intend to develop. Starting January 2013, Dr. Leonberger also serves as an advisor to our Board of Directors. Proprietary Products in Development As part of a two-pronged marketing strategy, our Company is developing several optical devices, which are in various stages of development and that utilize our organic nonlinear optical materials. They include: 15 Ridge Waveguide Modulator Our ridge electro-optic waveguide modulator was designed and fabricated in our Longmont, Colorado laboratory. The fabrication of our first in-house device is significant to our entire device program and is an important starting point for modulators that are being developed for target markets. We have multiple generations of new materials that we will soon be optimizing for this specific design. On December 27, 2016, we announced that our initial alpha prototype ridge waveguide modulator, enabled by our P 2 IC polymer system, demonstrated bandwidth suitable for data rates up to about 10 Gbps, which exceeds the telecom OC-48 standard (2.5 Gbps). This device demonstrated true amplitude (intensity) modulation in a Mach-Zehnder modulator structure incorporating our polymer waveguides. Presently, we are continuing to move towards extending our initial alpha prototype device to operate up to 25 Gbps, which is important to the optical networking industry because this data rate is a major node to achieve 100 Gbps (using 4 channels of 25 Gbps). The ridge waveguide modulator represents our first commercially viable device, and targets metro networks (< 10Km) within large scale telecommunications and data communications networks and represents approximately a $300MM per year market opportunity for us. Slot Waveguide Modulator Our functional polymer photonics slot waveguide modulator utilizes an existing modulator structure with one of our proprietary electro-optic polymer material systems as the enabling material layer, and is functional as an operating prototype device. Preliminary testing and initial data on our polymer photonics slot waveguide modulators demonstrated several promising characteristics. The tested polymer photonic chip had a 1-millimeter square footprint, enabling the possibility of sophisticated integrated optical circuits on a single silicon substrate. In addition, the waveguide structure was approximately 1/20 the length of a typical inorganic-based silicon photonics modulator waveguide. With the combination of our proprietary electro-optic polymer material and the extremely high optical field concentration in the slot waveguide modulator, the test modulators demonstrated less than 2.2 volts to operate. Initial speeds exceeded 30-35 GhZ in the telecom, 1550 nanometer frequency band. This is equivalent to four, 10Gb/sec, inorganic, lithium niobate modulators that would require approximately 12-16 volts to move the same amount of information. Our material also operates in the 1550 nanometer frequency band, which is suitable for data communications applications. We continued with our collaborative development of our SOH/ Polymer photonic slot waveguide modulator in 2014 and continued our collaboration with an associated third party research group through 2016. Our Long-Term Device Development Goal - Multichannel Integrated Nanophotonic Transceiver While we consider our ridge waveguide and slot waveguide modulators currently under development to be commercially viable products, in another sense they are intermediate steps in the development of our long-term goal a multichannel integrated nanophotonic transceiver for application in data communications. The transceiver consists of a silicon photonic chip fabricated with nonlinear polymer infused modulators (polymer photonic), multiplexers, demultiplexers, detectors and grating fiber couplers to an external light source. The CMOS-compatible optical modulators are key components for future silicon-based photonic transceivers. Our solution, the silicon-organic hybrid (polymer photonic) platform has been proposed and is being prototyped. In the polymer photonic approach, the optical signal is guided by a silicon waveguide while an organic cladding provides the electro-optic effect. Target Markets Cloud computing and data centers Big data is a general term used to describe the voluminous amount of unstructured and semi-structured data a Company creates -- data that would take too much time and cost too much money to load into a relational database for analysis. Companies are looking to cloud computing in their data centers to access all the data. Inherent speed and bandwidth limits of traditional solutions and the potential of organic polymer devices offer an opportunity to increase the bandwidth, reduce costs and improve speed of access. 16 While the number of data centers is declining, the overall square footage has been growing rapidly. Data centers are confronted with the problem of moving vast amounts of data not only around the data center itself, but also between data centers. The size of these data center links are often measured in kilometers and employ optical modulators to convert stored electrical/binary information to optical and back. Links that are shorter than 500 meters can employ direct modulation, which accomplishes modulation by mechanically turning a laser on and off. However, for links greater than 500 meters, it is necessary to employ optical modulators. We intend to target optical devices that are aimed at the 500m to 10km distance segment of the market. These are single mode fiber links and require polymer optical devices that operate in single optical mode. While some data center customers are planning their architectures using single mode fiber links even below 500m, others are focusing on cost-performance to make their decisions for their particular architectures. Our technology is both single mode and scalable, which means that it can be implemented in either data center application depending on how we achieve the customer metrics and specifications. We believe that our single mode modulator solutions will not only be competitive at 500m to 10km link distances, but also at distances below 500m depending on the customer architecture designs. Telecommunications/Data Communications The telecommunications industry has evolved from transporting traditional analogue voice data over copper wire into the movement of digital voice and data. Telecommunication companies are faced with the enormous increasing challenges to keep up with the resulting tremendous explosion in demand for bandwidth. This has been further exacerbated by a recent trend for content providers to store large amounts of data closer to the end user. This results in enormous demands on telecommunication metro networks (less than 10 Kilometers in length) and their ability to facilitate the transportation of content. We believe that our ridge waveguide modulator, when completed will have the potential to address several segments within telecommunications networks. Recent Significant Events and Milestones Achieved In December 2016, we achieved high-speed modulation in our first all-organic polymer ridge waveguide intensity modulator prototype, which constituted one of the most significant moments in the history of our Company. Our initial "alpha" prototype device, enabled by our P2IC polymer system, demonstrated bandwidth suitable for data rates up to about 10 Gbps. This performance exceeds the telecom OC-48 standard (2.5 Gbps). This device demonstrated true amplitude (intensity) modulation in a Mach-Zehnder modulator structure incorporating our polymer waveguides. Thereafter, we began to move towards extending our initial "alpha" prototype device to operate up to 25 Gbps, which is important to the optical networking industry because this data rate is a major node to achieve 100 Gbps (using 4 channels of 25 Gbps). In April 2017, we successfully achieved bandwidth suitable for 25Gbps data rates in our all-organic polymer ridge waveguide intensity modulator prototype, enabling our Company to address the explosive 100Gbps market for optical modulators u sing our Polymer Photonics Integrated Circuit (P2IC(TM)) Technology Platform. We are presently optimizing relevant 25Gbps device performance parameters and exploring packaging designs to prepare for customer evaluations. Additionally, we believe our modulator can be scaled further to operate up to 50Gbps. A 50Gbps device would be the key to open the door for our Company to address the next large market, 400Gbps nodes (e.g., using eight modulators). We expect that the 25Gbps device will generate significant industry attention as we squarely address powerful, cost-effective miniaturized solutions for both today's 100Gbps, and future 400Gbps higher performance markets. As we move forward through 2017, we expect to (i) bring in-house more specific skill sets in materials engineering and in device testing and fabrication, as well as personnel to orchestrate our various Company activities; and (ii) attract an industry partner with the synergistic capabilities necessary to help develop future products that are in various stages of design, such as a slot waveguide modulator and our integrated fiber optic polymer-based transceiver. Capital Requirements As a development stage company, we do not generate revenues. We have incurred substantial net losses since inception. We have satisfied our capital requirements since inception primarily through the issuance and sale of our common stock. 17 Results of Operations Comparison of three months ended March 31, 2017 to three months ended March 31, 2016 Revenues As a development stage company, we had no revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016. The Company is in various stages of photonic device and material development and evaluation. We expect the next revenue stream to be in product development agreements, prototype devices and sale of nonlinear optical polymer materials prior to moving into production. Operati ng Expenses Our operating expenses were $1,188,927 and $1,059,311 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, for an increase of $129,616. The increase in operating expenses is primarily due to increases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, consulting expenses, research and development travel expenses, other tax expenses, license fees and outsourced material testing expense and product prototype development expenses offset by decreases in investor relations expenses and laboratory materials and supplies. Included in our operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $728,514 for research and development expenses compared to $603,263 for the three months ended March 31, 2016, for an increase of $125,251. The increase in research and development expenses is primarily due to increases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, consulting expenses, travel expenses, license fees and outsourced testing and product development expenses offset by decreases in laboratory materials and supplies. Research and development expenses currently consist primarily of compensation for employees and consultants engaged in internal research, product development activities; laboratory operations, internal material and device testing and prototype electro-optic device design, development and prototype device processing; costs; and related operating expenses. We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expense to develop and commercialize our photonic devices and electro-optic materials platform. These expenses will increase as a result of accelerated development effort to support commercialization of our non-linear optical polymer materials technology; to build photonic device prototypes in our in-house laboratories; hiring additional technical and support personnel; engaging a senior technical advisor; pursuing other potential business opportunities and collaborations; customer testing and evaluation; and incurring related operating expenses. Research and development non-cash stock option amortization increased $64,854 from $87,536 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $152,390 for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Consulting expenses increased $49,168 from $55,353 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $104,521 for the year ended March 31, 2017. Travel expenses increased $7,848 from $13,436 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $21,284 for the three months ended March 31, 2017. License fees increased $7,500 from $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $7,500 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 for the license fee accrued to Corning in accordance with a license agreement. Outsourced material testing expense and product prototype development expenses increased $4,146 from $24,717 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $28,863 for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Laboratory materials and supplies decreased $12,835 from $47,687 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $34,852 for the three months ended March 31, 2017. General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and support costs for management staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including executive, sales and marketing, investor relations, accounting and finance, legal, consulting and other operating expenses. 18 General and administrative expenses increased $4,365 to $460,413 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to $456,048 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The increase is primarily due to increases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization and other tax expenses offset by decreases in investor relations expenses. Non-cash stock option and warrant amortization increased $15,365 to $83,600 for the three months ending March 31, 2017 from $68,235 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Other tax expenses increased $10,549 to $10,573 for the three months ending March 31, 2017 from $24 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Investor relation expenses decreased $20,521 to $4,125 for the three months ending March 31, 2017 from $24,646 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in future periods as we increase the level of corporate and administrative activity, including increases associated with our operation as a public company; and significantly increase expenditures related to the future production and sales of our products. Other Income (Expense) Other expense decreased $213,207 to $24,692 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 from $237,899 for the three months ended March 31, 2016, relating to the commitment fee associated with the purchase of shares by an institutional investor for sale under a stock purchase agreement during the nine-month period. Net Loss Net loss was $1,213,619 and $1,297,210 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, for a decrease of $83,591, was due primarily to decreases in commitment fee associated with the purchase of shares by an institutional investor for sale under a stock purchase agreement, investor relations expenses and laboratory materials and supplies offset by increases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, consulting expenses, research and development travel expenses, other tax expenses, license fees and outsourced material testing expense and product prototype development expenses. Significant Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based upon historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. We believe our significant accounting policies affect our more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 contains a discussion of these significant accounting policies. There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies since December 31, 2016. See our Note 1 in our unaudited financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as set forth herein for a complete discussion of our Companys accounting policies. Liquidity and Capital Resources During the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash used in operating activities was $820,053 and net cash used in investing activities was $26,320, which was due primarily to the Companys research and development activities and general and administrative expenditures. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $1,072,160. At March 31, 2017, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,182,631, our assets totaled $3,389,626, our liabilities totaled $204,820, and we had stockholders equity of $3,184,806. 19 During the three months ended March 31, 2016, net cash used in operating activities was $677,687 and net cash used in investing activities was $31,284, which was due primarily to the Companys research and development activities and general and administrative expenditures. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $0. At March 31, 2016, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $3,021,734, our assets totaled $4,238,815, our liabilities totaled $129,221, and we had stockholders equity of $4,109,594. Sources and Uses of Cash Our future expenditures and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: the progress of our research and development efforts; the rate at which we can, directly or through arrangements with original equipment manufacturers, introduce and sell products incorporating our polymer materials technology; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; market acceptance of our products and competing technological developments; and our ability to establish cooperative development, joint venture and licensing arrangements. We expect that we will incur approximately $3,960,000 of expenditures over the next 12 months. Our cash requirements are expected to increase at a rate consistent with the Companys path to revenue growth as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our electro-optic polymer technology during 2017. Our business does not presently generate the cash needed to finance our current and anticipated operations. We believe we have raised sufficient capital to finance our operations through October 2017; however, we will need to obtain additional future financing after that time to finance our operations until such time that we can conduct profitable revenue-generating activities. Such future sources of financing may include cash from equity offerings, exercise of stock options, warrants and proceeds from debt instruments; but we cannot assure you that such equity or borrowings will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. On January 29, 2016, we signed a purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (Lincoln Park) to sell up to $20,000,000 of common stock whereby subject to certain conditions and at our sole discretion, Lincoln Park has committed to purchase up to $20,000,000 of our common stock over a 36-month period. In April 2016, our registration statement became effective, which registered for resale by Lincoln Park under the Purchase Agreement 5,000,000 shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Lincoln Park is obligated to make purchases as the Company directs in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, which may be terminated by the Company at any time, without cost or penalty. Sales of shares will be made in specified amounts and at prices that are based upon the market prices of our common stock immediately preceding the sales to Lincoln Park. We expect this financing to provide us with sufficient funds to maintain our operations for the foreseeable future. With the additional capital, we expect to achieve a level of revenues attractive enough to fulfill our development activities and adequate enough to support our business model for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will meet the conditions of the Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park in order to obligate Lincoln Park to purchase our shares of common stock. In the event we fail to do so, and other adequate funds are not available to satisfy long-term capital requirements, or if planned revenues are not generated, we may be required to substantially limit our operations. This limitation of operations may include reductions in capital expenditures and reductions in staff and discretionary costs. There are no trading volume requirements or restrictions under the Purchase Agreement and we will control the timing and amount of any sales of our common stock to Lincoln Park. Lincoln Park has no right to require any sales by us, but is obligated to make purchases from us as we direct in accordance with the Purchase Agreement. We can also accelerate the amount of common stock to be purchased under certain circumstances. There are no limitations on use of proceeds, financial or business covenants, restrictions on future funding, rights of first refusal, participation rights, penalties or liquidated damages in the Purchase Agreement. Lincoln Park may not assign or transfer its rights and obligations under the purchase agreement. We expect that our cash used in operations will increase during 2017 and beyond as a result of the following planned activities: The addition of management, sales, marketing, technical and other staff to our workforce; Increased spending for the expansion of our research and development efforts, including purchases of additional laboratory and production equipment; Increased spending in marketing as our products are introduced into the marketplace; Developing and maintaining collaborative relationships with strategic partners; Developing and improving our manufacturing processes and quality controls; and Increases in our general and administrative activities related to our operations as a reporting public company and related corporate compliance requirements. 20 Analysis of Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2017 Net cash used in operating activities was $820,053 for the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily attributable to the net loss of $1,213,619 adjusted by $122,470 in warrants issued for services, $113,520 in options issued for services, $30,753 in common stock issued for services, $48,851 in depreciation expenses and patent amortization expenses, $1,038 in prepaid expenses and $76,934 in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities consisted of payments for research and development, legal, professional and consulting expenses, rent and other expenditures necessary to develop our business infrastructure. Net cash used by investing activities was $26,320 for the three months ended March 31, 2017, consisting of $12,310 in cost for intangibles and $14,010 in asset additions primarily for the Colorado lab facility Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,072,160 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and consisted of $1,072,160 in proceeds from resale of common stock to an institutional investor. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 Net cash used in operating activities was $677,687 for the three months ended March 31, 2016, primarily attributable to the net loss of $1,297,210 adjusted by $23,715 in warrants issued for services, $132,056 in options issued for services, $243,965 in common stock issued for services, $49,431 in depreciation expenses and patent amortization expenses, $144,092 in prepaid expenses and $26,264 in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities consisted of payments for research and development, legal, professional and consulting expenses, rent and other expenditures necessary to develop our business infrastructure. Net cash used by investing activities was $31,284 for the three months ended March 31, 2016, consisting of $10,450 in cost for intangibles and $20,834 in asset additions primarily for the new lab facility. Net cash provided by financing activities was $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Inflation and Seasonality We do not believe that our operations are significantly impacted by inflation. Our business is not seasonal in nature.