Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Lightwave Logic, Inc. (the Company ) is a development stage, electro-optical device and organic nonlinear materials company. Our primary area of expertise is the chemical synthesis of chromophore dyes used in the development of organic Application Specific Electro-Optic Polymers (ASEOP) and organic Non-Linear All-Optical Polymers (NLAOP) that have high electro-optic and optical activity. Our family of materials are thermally and photo-chemically stable, which we believe could have utility across a broad range of applications in devices that address markets such as telecommunication, data communications, high-speed computing and photovoltaic cells. Secondarily, our Company is developing proprietary electro-optical and all-optical devices utilizing the advanced capabilities of our materials for the application in the fields mentioned above. Electro-optic devices convert data from electric signals into optical signals for use in communications systems and in optical interconnects for high-speed data transfer. We expect our patented and patent-pending optical materials (chromophores), when combined with selected polymers to make ASEOP and NLAOP material systems and when completed and tested, to be the core of the future generations of optical devices, modules, sub-systems and systems that we will develop or be licensed by electro-optic device manufacturers, such as telecommunications component and systems manufacturers, networking and switching suppliers, semiconductor companies, aerospace companies and government agencies. Our ASEOP material systems are property-engineered at the molecular level (nanotechnology level) to meet the exacting thermal, environmental and performance specifications demanded by electro-optic devices. We believe that our patented and patent pending technologies will enable us to design polymer based material systems that are free from the numerous diverse and inherent flaws that plague competitive polymer technologies employed by other companies and research groups. We engineer our polymer based material systems with the intent to have temporal, thermal, chemical and photochemical stability within our patented and patent pending molecular chromophore architectures. Our non-linear all optical NLAOP material systems have demonstrated resonantly enhanced third-order properties approximately 2,630 times larger than fused silica, which means that they are highly photo-optically active in the absence of an RF circuit. In this way they differ from other polymer technologies and are considered more advanced next-generation materials. Our revenue model relies substantially on the assumption that we will be able to successfully develop our polymer based material systems and photonic device products, which will use our polymer based material systems, for applications within the industries named below. When appropriate, we intend to create specific materials for each of these applications and use our proprietary knowledge base to continue to enhance its discoveries. cloud computing and data centers telecommunications/data communications backplane optical interconnects photovoltaic cells medical applications satellite reconnaissance navigation systems radar applications optical filters special light modulators all-optical switches To be successful, we must, among other things: Develop and maintain collaborative relationships with strategic partners; Continue to expand our research and development efforts for our products; Develop and continue to improve on our manufacturing processes and maintain stringent quality controls; Produce commercial quantities of our products at commercially acceptable prices; Rapidly respond to technological advancements; Attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and Obtain and retain effective intellectual property protection for our products and technology. 12 We believe that Moore's Law (a principle which states the number of transistors on a silicon chip doubles approximately every eighteen months) will create markets for our high-performance electro-optic materials and photonic device products. Plan of Operation Since inception, we have been engaged primarily in the research and development of our polymer based material systems and photonic device products. We are devoting significant resources to engineer next-generation polymer based material systems for future applications to be utilized by electro-optic device manufacturers, such as telecommunications component and systems manufacturers, networking and switching suppliers, semiconductor companies, aerospace companies, government agencies and internal device development. We expect to continue to develop products that we intend to introduce to these rapidly changing markets and to seek to identify new markets. We expect to continue to make significant operating and capital expenditures for research and development activities. As we move from a development stage company to a product supplier, we expect that our financial condition and results of operations will undergo substantial change. In particular, we expect to record both revenue and expense from product sales, to incur increased costs for sales and marketing and to increase general and administrative expense. Accordingly, the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements are not expected to be indicative of our future financial condition and results of operations. Some of our more significant milestones that we achieved during 2014-2015 include: In January 2014 we created a new methodology to combine multiple chromophores into a single polymer host that will significantly improve their ability to generate more powerful organic, nonlinear electro-optical polymer systems. The new synthetic chemistry process can enable multiple chromophores (dyes) to work in concert with each other within a single polymer host. This proprietary process has created two new material systems, which have demonstrated outstanding electro-optic values. In addition, we now have a significant amount of data on the thermal aging of our materials. We have demonstrated that our materials can withstand considerably more than 500 hours at 110 degrees C with little to no change in electro-optic activity in our materials, which is a significant milestone. To our knowledge, this is something that has not occurred before in any polymer. We are also concurrently coating prototype waveguides with our proprietary material system. In February 2014 we received our first purchase order for our advanced organic nonlinear electro-optic polymer from Boulder Nonlinear Systems (BNS) of Boulder, Colorado in connection with the development of a next generation LADAR system. A LADAR system is a radar system that utilizes a pulse laser to calculate the distance to a target, but is also capable of rendering a 3-D image. In the event BNS continues to move forward with the development of this LADAR system, we expect to receive additional purchase orders from BNS. In March 2014 we began the process of manufacturing an advanced design Silicon Organic Hybrid Transceiver prototype and we released the completed chip design to the OpSIS Center at the University of Delaware who produced initial silicon chips, which were delivered to us in December 2014 and January 2015. We are currently qualifying and testing these chips for utilization in our Silicon Organic Transceiver. The initial application will target inter-data center interconnections of more than 10 kilometers. Our next design will utilize a different frequency and address the current bottleneck in the rack-to-server layer. In April 2014 we entered into a sole worldwide license agreement with Corning Incorporated enabling us to integrate Corning's organic electro-optical chromophores into our portfolio of electro-optic polymer materials. The agreement allows us to use the licensed patents within a defined license field that includes communications, computing, power, and power storage applications utilizing the nonlinear optical properties of their materials. As a result of obtaining this license agreement, we created a new powerful and durable nonlinear organic electro-optical material that will be used in photonic device development and is based on our new multi-chromophore approach that allows two or more chromophores to work in concert. This multi-chromophore system has achieved a 50% increase in chromophore concentration, leading to higher electro-optical activity when compared to an equivalent single chromophore system. Repeated, multi-point measurements multi-chromophore system shows approximately twice the electro-optic effect of Lithium Niobate with excellent durability. 13 In August 2014 the University of Colorado successfully fabricated and tested a bleached electro-optic waveguide modulator designed and fabricated through a sponsored collaborative research agreement. The results of this initial bleached waveguide modulator correlated well with previous electro-optic thin film properties. These initial results of our first in-house device are significant to our entire device program and are an important starting point for modulators that are being developed for target markets. We have multiple generations of new materials that we will soon be optimizing for this specific design. In October 2014 we submitted an order with Reynard Corporation to produce gold-layered fused silica substrates for our bleached waveguide modulators to be coated with several of our organic electro-optical polymers, which we received in early November and performance tested throughout December. Upon completion of our side-by-side comparative testing of our organic polymers versus duplicate silicon photonic devices, we will coat the gold-layered fused silica substrates with our proprietary polymers and begin to produce working demonstration prototype devices that we will use to present to potential customers and development partners. The bleached waveguide modulator represents our first commercially viable device, and targets metro networks (< 10Km) within large scale telecommunications and data communications networks and represents approximately a $300MM per year market opportunity for us. In December 2014 we subjected several blends of materials created by our multi-chromophore process to thermal aging tests that included lengthy exposure to high temperatures (85C and 110C) for 300 hours. The data collected indicated minimal loss of electro-optical activity (R33), even after over 500 hours at 110C. Extrapolated internal aging calculations indicated that our organic polymers are expected to provide decades of operational performance. These results exceed previously published efforts for other organic polymers. In May 2015 we achieved operating capability of our in-house Class 100 Clean Room where we expect to complete the development of prototype photonic devices enabled by our advanced organic electro-optic polymer material systems in a timelier manner. Additionally, the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics (JILA) certified three of our employees, which allows us access to JILAs world class facility located at the University of Colorado, Boulder. Access to this facility provides us with better control over the quality of our development work and the speed at which it progresses. Presently, we are continuing to move towards completion of our operating organic polymer-enabled waveguide modulator prototype using our new multi-chromophore material systems. We ultimately intend to use our next-generation electro-optic polymer material systems and non-linear all-optical polymer material systems for future applications vital to the following industries. We expect to create specific materials for each of these applications as appropriate: Cloud computing and data centers Telecommunications/data communications Backplane optical interconnects Photovoltaic cells Medical applications Satellite reconnaissance Navigation systems Radar applications Optical filters Special light modulators All-optical switches In an effort to maximize our future revenue stream from our electro-optic polymer material systems and non-linear all-optical polymer material systems, our business model anticipates that our revenue stream will be derived from one or some combination of the following: (i) technology licensing for specific product applications; (ii) joint venture relationships with significant industry leaders; or (iii) the production and direct sale of our own photonic device components. Our objective is to be a leading provider of proprietary technology and know-how in the photonic device markets. In order to meet this objective, subject to successful testing of our technology and having available financial resources, we intend to: Develop electro-optic polymer material systems and non-linear all-optical polymer material systems and photonic devices Continue to develop proprietary intellectual property Streamline our product development process 14 Develop a comprehensive marketing plan Maintain/develop strategic relationships with government agencies, private firms, and academic institutions Continue to attract and retain high level science and technology personnel to our Company Our Proprietary Products in Development As part of a two-pronged marketing strategy, our Company is developing several devices, which are in various stages of development that utilize our organic nonlinear optical materials. They include: Bleached waveguide modulator Ridge waveguide modulator Slot waveguide modulator Spatial light modulator 100 Gbps telecommunications modulator 200 Gbps datacomm/telecomm photonic transceiver Integrated photonic system Additionally, we must continue to create and maintain an infrastructure, including operational and financial systems, and related internal controls, and recruit qualified personnel. Failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to support our operations. Capital Requirements As a development stage company, we do not generate revenues. We have incurred substantial net losses since inception. We have satisfied our capital requirements since inception primarily through the issuance and sale of our common stock. Results of Operations Comparison of three months ended March 31, 2015 to three months ended March 31, 2014 Revenues As a development stage company, we had revenues of $0 during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and $2,500 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The Company is in various stages of material and photonic device development and evaluation with potential customers and strategic partners. We expect the next revenue stream to be in sale of nonlinear optical polymer materials, prototype devices, product development agreements prior to moving into production. Operati ng Expenses Our operating expenses were $1,065,452 and $987,671 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, for an increase of $77,781. This increase in operating expenses was due primarily to increases in salaries and wages, laboratory electro-optic device prototype, development and outsourced testing expenses, laboratory materials and supplies, professional fees, consulting expenses, legal fees, investor relations expenses, rent and utility expenses, human resource support and 401(k) Plan processing fees offset by decreases in non-cash amortization of options and warrants, travel and lodging expenses. Included in our operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2 015 was $645,206 for research and development expenses compared to $585,506 for the three months ended March 31, 2014, for an increase of $59,700. This is primarily due to increases in research and development salaries and wages, laboratory electro-optic devices prototype, development and outsourced testing expenses, laboratory materials and supplies, consulting expense and rent offset by decrease in research and development non-cash stock option and warrant amortization. Research and development expenses currently consist primarily of compensation for employees engaged in internal research, product and application development activities; laboratory operations, internal and outsourced material and device testing and prototype electro-optic device design, development and processing work; costs; and related operating expenses. 15 We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expense to develop and commercialize our electro-optic material platform. These expenses will increase as a result of accelerated development effort to support commercialization of our non-linear optical polymer materials technology; outsourcing work to build device prototypes; expanding and equipping in-house laboratories; hiring additional technical and support personnel; engaging a senior technical advisor; pursuing other potential business opportunities and collaborations; customer testing and evaluation; and incurring related operating expenses. Laboratory material testing expense and electro-optic device development increased $15,102 from $98,547 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 to $113,649 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Laboratory materials and supplies also increased $18,038 from $22,884 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 to $40,922 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Wages and salaries increased $22,470 from $211,272 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 to $233,742 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Consulting expenses increased $16,809 from $5,785 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 to $22,594 for the year ended March 31, 2015. Research and development non-cash stock option amortization decreased $40,883 from $144,451 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 to $103,568 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Rent and utilities increased $11,965 from $19,692 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 to $31,657 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 due to the expansion of the corporate and lab facility in Colorado. General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and support costs for management staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including executive, sales and marketing, investor relations, accounting and finance, legal, consulting and other operating expenses. General and administrative expenses increased $18,081 to $420,246 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $402,165 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The increase is due primarily to increases in legal fees, professional fees, investor relations expenses, salaries and wages, human resource support and 401(k) Plan processing fees, offset by decreases in general and administrative non-cash amortization of options and warrants and travel expenses. General and Administrative wages and salaries increased $1,723 from $118,594 for the three months ended March 31, 2014 to $120,317 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Professional fees increased $10,500 to $10,500 for the three months ending March 31, 2015 from $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Legal fees increased $11,016 to $43,294 for the three months ending March 31, 2015 from $32,278 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Investor relation expenses increased $9,131 to $27,998 for the three months ending March 31, 2015 from $18,867 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Human resource support and 401(k) Plan processing fees increased $1,589 to $3,883 for the three months ending March 31, 2015 from $2,294 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. General and administrative non-cash stock option and warrant amortization decreased $9,331 to $67,377 for the three months ending March 31, 2015 from $76,708 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Travel expenses decreased $7,728 to $12,912 for the three months ending March 31, 2015 from $20,640 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in future periods as we increase the level of corporate and administrative activity, including increases associated with our operation as a public company; and significantly increase expenditures related to the future production and sales of our products. 16 Net Loss Net loss was $1,065,391 and $987,851 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, for an increase of $77,540, due primarily to increases in salaries and wages, laboratory electro-optic device prototype, development and outsourced testing expenses, laboratory materials and supplies, professional fees, consulting expenses, legal fees, investor relations expenses, rent and utility expenses, human resource support and 401(k) Plan processing fees offset by decreases in non-cash amortization of options and warrants, travel and lodging expenses. Significant Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based upon historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. We believe our significant accounting policies affect our more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 contains a discussion of these significant accounting policies. There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies since December 31, 2014. See our Note 1 in our unaudited financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2015, as set forth herein for a complete discussion of our Companys accounting policies. Liquidity and Capital Resources During the three months ended March 31, 2015, net cash used in operating activities was $699,499 and net cash used in investing activities was $127,592, which was due primarily to the Companys research and development activities and general and administrative expenditures. At March 31, 2015, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,338,849, our assets totaled $3,525,442, our liabilities totaled $341,056, and we had stockholders equity of $3,184,386. Sources and Uses of Cash Our future expenditures and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: the progress of our research and development efforts; the rate at which we can, directly or through arrangements with original equipment manufacturers, introduce and sell products incorporating our polymer materials technology; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; market acceptance of our products and competing technological developments; and our ability to establish cooperative development, joint venture and licensing arrangements. We expect that we will incur approximately $3,540,000 of expenditures over the next 12 months. Our cash requirements are expected to increase at a rate consistent with the Companys path to revenue growth as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our electro-optic polymer technology during 2016. Our business does not presently generate the cash needed to finance our current and anticipated operations. We believe we have raised sufficient capital to finance our operations through October 2015, however, we will need to obtain additional future financing after that time to finance our operations until such time that we can conduct profitable revenue-generating activities. Such future sources of financing may include cash from equity offerings, exercise of stock options, warrants and proceeds from debt instruments; but we cannot assure you that such equity or borrowings will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. Presently, we expect to be able to begin closing on a private placement of our securities in the near future. 17 In June 2013 we signed a stock purchase agreement with Lincoln Park to sell up to $20 million of common stock whereby subject to certain conditions and at our sole discretion, Lincoln Park has committed to purchase up to $20 million of our common stock over a 30-month period. We registered for resale by Lincoln Park 10,000,000 shares of our common stock in October 2013. Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, Lincoln Park is obligated to make purchases as the Company directs in accordance with the purchase agreement, which may be terminated by the Company at any time, without cost or penalty. Sales of shares will be made in specified amounts and at prices that are based upon the market prices of our Company's common stock immediately preceding the sales to Lincoln Park. We expect this financing to provide our Company with sufficient funds to maintain its operations for the foreseeable future. With the additional capital, we expect to achieve a level of revenues attractive enough to fulfill our development activities and adequate enough to support our business model for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will meet the conditions of the stock purchase agreement with Lincoln Park in order to obligate Lincoln Park to purchase our shares of common stock. In the event we fail to do so, and other adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, or if planned revenues are not generated, we may be required to substantially limit our operations. This limitation of operations may include reductions in capital expenditures and reductions in staff and discretionary costs. There are no trading volume requirements or restrictions under the new stock purchase agreement, and we will control the timing and amount of any sales of our common stock to Lincoln Park. Lincoln Park has no right to require any sales by us, but is obligated to make purchases from us as we direct in accordance with the purchase agreement. We can also accelerate the amount of common stock to be purchased under certain circumstances. There are no limitations on use of proceeds, financial or business covenants, restrictions on future funding, rights of first refusal, participation rights, penalties or liquidated damages in the purchase agreement. We may terminate the stock purchase agreement at any time, at our discretion, without any penalty or cost to us. Lincoln Park may not assign or transfer its rights and obligations under stock the purchase agreement. We expect that our cash used in operations will increase during 2015 and beyond as a result of the following planned activities: The addition of management, sales, marketing, technical and other staff to our workforce; Increased spending for the expansion of our research and development efforts, including purchases of additional laboratory and production equipment; Increased spending in marketing as our products are introduced into the marketplace; Developing and maintaining collaborative relationships with strategic partners; Developing and improving our manufacturing processes and quality controls; and Increases in our general and administrative activities related to our operations as a reporting public company and related corporate compliance requirements. Analysis of Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2015 Net cash used in operating activities was $699,499 for the three months ended March 31, 2015, primarily attributable to the net loss of $1,065,391 adjusted by $27,673 in warrants issued for services, $143,272 in options issued for services, $21,250 in common stock issued for services, $40,461 in depreciation expenses and patent amortization expenses, $14,021 in prepaid expenses and $119,215 in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities consisted of payments for research and development, legal, professional and consulting expenses, rent and other expenditures necessary to develop our business infrastructure. Net cash used by investing activities was $127,592 for the three months ended March 31, 2015, consisting of $3,927 in cost for intangibles and $123,665 in asset additions primarily for the new lab facility and clean room. Inflation and Seasonality We do not believe that our operations are significantly impacted by inflation. Our business is not seasonal in nature. 18