Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Lightwave Logic, Inc. (the Company ) is a development stage, electro-optical device and organic nonlinear materials company. Our primary area of expertise is the chemical synthesis of chromophore dyes used in the development of organic Application Specific Electro-Optic Polymers (ASEOP) and organic Non-Linear All-Optical Polymers (NLAOP) that have high electro-optic and optical activity. Our family of materials are thermally and photo-chemically stable, which we believe could have utility across a broad range of applications in devices that address markets such as telecommunication, data communications, high-speed computing and photovoltaic cells. Secondarily, our Company is developing proprietary electro-optical and all-optical devices utilizing the advanced capabilities of our materials for applications in the fields mentioned above. Electro-optic devices convert data from electric signals into optical signals for use in communications systems and in optical interconnects for high-speed data transfer. We expect our patented and patent-pending optical materials (chromophores), when combined with selected polymers to make ASEOP and NLAOP material systems and when completed and tested, to be the core of the future generations of optical devices, modules, sub-systems and systems that we will develop or be licensed by electro-optic device manufacturers, such as telecommunications component and systems manufacturers, networking and switching suppliers, semiconductor companies, aerospace companies and government agencies. Our ASEOP material systems are property-engineered at the molecular level (nanotechnology level) to meet the exacting thermal, environmental and performance specifications demanded by electro-optic devices. We believe that our patented and patent pending technologies will enable us to design polymer based material systems that are free from the numerous diverse and inherent flaws that plague competitive polymer technologies employed by other companies and research groups. We engineer our polymer based material systems with the intent to have temporal, thermal, chemical and photochemical stability within our patented and patent pending molecular chromophore architectures. Our non-linear all optical NLAOP material systems have demonstrated resonantly enhanced third-order properties approximately 2,630 times larger than fused silica, which means that they are highly photo-optically active in the absence of an RF circuit. In this way they differ from other polymer technologies and are considered more advanced next-generation materials. Our revenue model relies substantially on the assumption that we will be able to successfully develop our polymer based material systems and photonic device products, which will use our polymer based material systems, for applications within the industries named below. When appropriate, we intend to create specific materials for each of these applications and use our proprietary knowledge base to continue to enhance its discoveries. Cloud computing and data centers Telecommunications/data communications Backplane optical interconnects Photovoltaic cells Medical applications Satellite reconnaissance Navigation systems Radar applications Optical filters Spatial light modulators All-optical switches To be successful, we must, among other things: Develop and maintain collaborative relationships with strategic partners; Continue to expand our research and development efforts for our products; Develop and continue to improve on our manufacturing processes and maintain stringent quality controls; Produce commercial quantities of our products at commercially acceptable prices; Rapidly respond to technological advancements; Attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and Obtain and retain effective intellectual property protection for our products and technology. 16 We believe that Moore's Law (a principle which states the number of transistors on a silicon chip doubles approximately every eighteen months) will create markets for our high-performance electro-optic materials and photonic device products. Plan of Operation Since inception, we have been engaged primarily in the research and development of our electro-optic polymer based material systems and photonic device products. We are devoting significant resources to engineer next-generation electro-optic polymer based material systems for future applications to be utilized by electro-optic device manufacturers, such as telecommunications component and systems manufacturers, networking and switching suppliers, semiconductor companies, aerospace companies, government agencies and internal device development. We expect to continue to develop products that we intend to introduce to these rapidly changing markets and to seek to identify new markets. We expect to continue to make significant operating and capital expenditures for research and development activities. As we move from a development stage company to a product supplier, we expect that our financial condition and results of operations will undergo substantial change. In particular, we expect to record both revenue and expense from product sales, to incur increased costs for sales and marketing and to increase general and administrative expense. Accordingly, the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements are not expected to be indicative of our future financial condition and results of operations. Some of our more significant milestones that we achieved during 2014-2016 include: In January 2014 we created a new methodology to combine multiple chromophores into a single polymer host that significantly improves their ability to generate more powerful organic, nonlinear electro-optical polymer systems. The new synthetic chemistry process can enable multiple chromophores (dyes) to work in concert with each other within a single polymer host. This proprietary process has created two new material systems, which have demonstrated outstanding electro-optic values. In addition, we now have a significant amount of data on the thermal aging of our materials. We have demonstrated that our materials can withstand more than 2,000 hours at 110 degrees C with little to no change in electro-optic activity in our materials, which is a significant milestone. To our knowledge, this is something that has not been achieved before in any polymer. We are also concurrently creating prototype waveguides with our proprietary material system. In February 2014 we received our first purchase order for our advanced organic nonlinear electro-optic polymer from Boulder Nonlinear Systems (BNS) of Boulder, Colorado in connection with the development of a next generation LADAR system. A LADAR system is a radar system that utilizes a pulse laser to calculate the distance to a target, but is also capable of rendering a 3-D image. In the event BNS continues to move forward with the development of this LADAR system, we expect to receive additional purchase orders from BNS. In March 2014 we began the process of manufacturing an advanced design Silicon Organic Hybrid Transceiver prototype and we released the completed chip design to the OpSIS Center at the University of Delaware who contracted with a third party to produce the initial silicon chips, which were delivered to us in December 2014 and January 2015. We will look at similar designs to these chips for utilization in our Silicon Organic Transceiver as our device development program continues. The initial application will target inter and intra-data center interconnections of more than 500 meters. In April 2014 we entered into a sole worldwide license agreement with Corning Incorporated enabling us to integrate Corning's organic electro-optical chromophores into our portfolio of electro-optic polymer materials. The agreement allows us to use the licensed patents within a defined license field that includes communications, computing, power, and power storage applications utilizing the nonlinear optical properties of their materials. In August 2014 the University of Colorado successfully fabricated and tested a bleached electro-optic waveguide modulator designed and fabricated through a sponsored collaborative research agreement. The results of this initial bleached waveguide modulator correlated well with previous electro-optic thin film properties. These initial results of our first in-house device were significant to our entire device program and were an important starting point for our current modulators being developed for target markets. 17 In October 2014 we submitted an order with Reynard Corporation to produce gold-layered fused silica substrates for our bleached waveguide modulators to be coated with several of our organic electro-optical polymers, which we received in early November 2014 and performance tested throughout December 2014. In May, 2015, we subsequently decided to eliminate this product from our commercial development plans due to its limited commercial value, low speed characteristics, difficulty to mass-produce and limited ability to integrate with existing architectures. In lieu of this development program, a commercially viable prototype ridge waveguide modulator program was started to replace the bleached waveguide development. We believe that the ridge waveguide modulator represents a viable telecom device opportunity for the Company that does not have the inherent limitations seen in bleached waveguide structures. In May 2015 we achieved operating capability of our in-house Class 100 Clean Room where we do thin film processing and expect to complete the development of prototype photonic devices enabled by our advanced organic electro-optic polymer material systems in a timelier manner. Additionally, the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics (JILA) certified three of our employees, which allows us access to JILAs world-class semiconductor facility located at the University of Colorado, Boulder. Access to this facility provides us with better control over the quality of our development work and the speed at which it progresses. In August 2015 we completed 2,000+ hours of thermal aging tests on several blends of materials created by our multi-chromophore process, which included lengthy exposure to high temperatures (85 0 C and 110 0 C). The data collected indicated minimal loss of electro-optical activity (R 33 ) of our materials, which means that our organic polymers are expected to provide decades of operational performance. These results exceed previously published efforts for other organic polymers and are an important part of our commercialization effort as we begin to implement these material systems into advanced photonic devices for the telecom and datacom markets. Additionally, in August 2015, we completed 500+ hours of photochemical stability testing of our material candidates by exposing them to the visible light spectrum. The data collected indicated no discernible change in the chemical structures in an oxygen free environment. An accepted industry standard is 2,000 hours. This stability testing was begun to help us understand more clearly the processing and manufacturing requirements of our future commercial products, and provide initial assurances to expect the same results as we move these materials into actual photonic device structures. In October 2015, we successfully surpassed 2,000 hours of photochemical stability testing of our material candidates with little to no change in the electro-optic characteristics (R 33 ) of our material; and, in January 2016, we successfully surpassed 4,000 hours of photochemical stability testing of our material candidates with little to no change in the optical density of our material. These photochemical stability test results, along with the thermal stability at 110C, should enable the Company to demonstrate that organic polymers can compete head-to-head with inorganic crystalline legacy telecom and datacom devices which currently provide the backbone for the entire infrastructure that converts almost incalculable amounts of electronic (binary) data into pulses of light and back on a daily basis. In November of 2015, we successfully fabricated ridge waveguide structures from our core electro-optic polymer material system. At the same time we successfully developed a proprietary methodology to segment individual chips from our silicon wafers that contain our ridge waveguide devices. These critical steps in our process provide us with a clear path towards a commercial telecommunication device. These same processes can be used for the fabrication of modulators to be used in data centers. The individual chips are being analyzed and passively tested in our Longmont, CO optical test facility. We continue to move towards completion of an operating organic polymer-enabled ridge waveguide modulator prototype using our new multi-chromophore material systems. In February 2016, we successfully guided laser single-mode light through 16 of our passive single-mode ridge waveguides made entirely out of our advanced organic electro-optic polymer systems, which are the building block of waveguide modulators that achieve high-speed modulator performance. As a result, our commercialization effort entered the next phases of development: passive-waveguide loss measurements, followed by the development and active testing of electro-optic modulators. Utilizing continuous-wave input laser light, electro-optic modulators convert digital (binary) electrical data into output pulses of light that can be transported across fiber optical communication networks. Active testing is accomplished by applying an electrical signal to a modulator and evaluating the resulting output optical signal. In April 2016, we successfully achieved modulation of light in our first in-house all-polymer ridge waveguide modulator prototype. This important step towards commercialization proved that our proprietary organic electro-optic polymer systems could modulate light in an in-house designed and produced polymer ridge waveguide modulator. We expect this significant achievement to eventually lead to high-speed, low input voltage modulators capable of penetrating the current market. We are still testing and modifying the poling profiles in prototype devices to duplicate the results seen in previous Teng-Man R 33 material testing. 18 In May 2016, we broadened our photonic device development to include our new P 2 IC (Polymer Photonics Integrated Circuit) design platform. The P 2 IC design platform utilizes high-speed ridge waveguide and slot waveguide modulator designs that scale up in performance as well as down in cost structure. Furthermore, the Lightwave Logic P 2 IC design platform combines the best of Polymer Photonics with the best of Silicon Photonics (SiP) to create a powerful, yet scalable platform that addresses the desires of both the telecom and datacom industries. In August 2016, we gained enormous industry exposure for our first organic electro-optic polymer-enabled prototype photonic device when our board member, Michael Lebby, Ph.D., presented to the Prestigious European Conference on Optical Communication (ECOC) Exhibition, the scientific and economic case for our Company's high-performance polymer photonics for next-generation photonic integrated circuits as future competition for installed legacy photonic devices and emerging silicon photonic systems. We expect to demonstrate our prototype during the last quarter of 2016. In August 2016, we obtained highly successful independent third party verification of our organic polymer thin film properties from Metricon, a company that specializes in making precision instruments designed to obtain optical measurements on thin film materials and optical waveguides. Metricon concluded a battery of scientific tests to verify the inherent properties of several of our advanced organic electro-optic polymer materials, which are currently being implemented into a series of photonic devices. Measurements by Metricon of several planar waveguide samples determined that our polymer thin film materials at 1550 nm (Telecom frequency band) should exceed industry requirements that target overall device loss at <4 dB/cm. Additionally, Metricon was also able to provide very accurate refractive index measurements on our Companys materials, which is very important for designing high-speed multi-layer polymer modulators. Presently, we are continuing to move towards completion of our operating organic electro-optic polymer-enabled ridge waveguide modulator prototype using our new multi-chromophore material systems. We ultimately intend to use our next-generation electro-optic polymer material systems and non-linear all-optical polymer material systems for future applications vital to the following industries. We expect to create specific materials for each of these applications as appropriate: Cloud computing and data centers Telecommunications/data communications Backplane optical interconnects Photovoltaic cells Medical applications Satellite reconnaissance Navigation systems Radar applications Optical filters Spatial light modulators All-optical switches In an effort to maximize our future revenue stream from our electro-optic polymer material systems and non-linear all-optical polymer material systems, our business model anticipates that our revenue stream will be derived from one or some combination of the following: (i) technology licensing for specific product applications; (ii) joint venture relationships with significant industry leaders; (iii) the production and direct sale of our own photonic device components; or (iv) the vertical integration of our modulator into a transceiver device. Our objective is to be a leading provider of proprietary technology and know-how in the photonic device markets. In order to meet this objective, subject to successful testing of our technology and having available financial resources, we intend to: Develop electro-optic polymer material systems and non-linear all-optical polymer material systems and photonic devices; Continue to develop proprietary intellectual property; Streamline our product development process; Develop a comprehensive marketing plan; Maintain/develop strategic relationships with government agencies, private firms, and academic institutions; and Continue to attract and retain high-level science and technology personnel to our Company. 19 Our Proprietary Products in Development As part of a two-pronged marketing strategy, our Company is developing several devices, which are in various stages of development that utilize our organic nonlinear optical materials. They include: Ridge waveguide modulator Slot waveguide modulator 100 Gbps telecommunications modulator 200 Gbps datacomm/telecomm photonic transceiver Integrated photonic system Additionally, we must continue to create and maintain an infrastructure, including operational and financial systems, and related internal controls, and recruit qualified personnel. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to support our operations. Capital Requirements As a development stage company, we do not generate revenues. We have incurred substantial net losses since inception. We have satisfied our capital requirements since inception primarily through the issuance and sale of our common stock. Results of Operations Comparison of three months ended September 30, 2016 to three months ended September 30, 2015 Revenues As a development stage company, we had no revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015. The Company is in various stages of material and photonic device development and evaluation. The Company expects to obtain a revenue stream from datacom and telecom devices, sales of non-linear optical polymers, and product development agreements prior to moving into full-scale production. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses were $943,326 and $1,929,924 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, for a decrease of $986,598. This decrease in operating expenses is primarily due to decreases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, legal expenses, disposal of material and obsolete equipment, investor relations expenses, laboratory materials and supplies and research and development salaries and wages offset by increases in research and development consulting fees and general and administrative salaries and wages. Included in our operating expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $589,038 for research and development expenses compared to $1,047,963 for the three months ended September 30, 2015, for a decrease of $458,925. The decrease in research and development expenses is primarily due to decreases in non-cash stock option and warrants amortization, disposal of material and obsolete equipment, laboratory materials and supplies and salaries and wages, offset by an increase in consulting fees. Research and development expenses currently consist primarily of compensation for employees and consultants engaged in internal research, product development activities; laboratory operations, internal material and device testing and prototype electro-optic device design, development and prototype device processing; costs; and related operating expenses. We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expenses to develop and commercialize our photonic devices and electro-optic materials platform. These expenses will increase as a result of accelerated development effort to support commercialization of our non-linear optical polymer materials technology; to build photonic device prototypes in our in-house laboratories; hiring additional technical and support personnel; engaging a senior technical advisor; pursuing other potential business opportunities and collaborations; customer testing and evaluation; and incurring related operating expenses. Research and development non-cash stock option amortization decreased $486,466 from $530,032 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to $43,566 for the three months ended September 30, 2016. 20 Disposal of material and obsolete equipment decreased $21,706 from $22,379 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to $673 for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Laboratory materials and supplies decreased $8,042 from $48,340 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to $40,298 for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Wages and salaries, including benefits decreased $7,148 from $281,258 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to $274,110 for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Consulting expenses increased $67,101 from $11,926 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to $79,027 for the three months ended September 30, 2016. General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and support costs for management staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including executive, sales and marketing, investor relations, accounting and finance, legal, consulting and other operating expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $527,673 to $354,288 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $881,961 for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease is due primarily to decreases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, legal expenses and investor relations expenses offset by an increase in salaries and wages. General and administrative non-cash stock option amortization decreased $503,301 from $548,180 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to $44,879 for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Legal fees decreased $29,979 to $15,001 for the three months ending September 30, 2016 from $44,980 for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Investor relation expenses decreased $12,513 to $4,780 for the three months ending September 30, 2016 from $17,293 for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Wages and salaries, including benefits increased $10,045 from $149,550 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to $159,595 for the three months ended September 30, 2016. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in future periods as we increase the level of corporate and administrative activity, including increases associated with our operation as a public company; and significantly increase expenditures related to the future production and sales of our products. Other Income (Expense) Other expense increased $22,177 to $22,177 for the three months ending September 30, 2016 from $0 for the three months ending September 30, 2015, relating to the commitment fee associated with the purchase of shares by an institutional investor for sale under a stock purchase agreement during the three-month period. Net Loss Net loss was $965,441 and $1,929,861 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, for a decrease of $964,420, due primarily to decreases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, legal expenses, disposal of material and obsolete equipment, investor relations expenses, laboratory materials and supplies and research and development salaries and wages offset by increases in research and development consulting, commitment fee associated with the purchase of shares by an institutional investor for sale under a stock purchase agreement and general and administrative salaries and wages. 21 Comparison of nine months ended September 30, 2016 to nine months ended September 30, 2015 Revenues As a development stage company, we had no revenues during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015. The Company is in various stages of material and photonic device development and evaluation. The Company expects to obtain a revenue stream from datacom and telecom devices, sales of non-linear optical polymers, and product development agreements prior to moving into full-scale production. Our operating expenses were $3,041,967 and $4,047,715 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, for a decrease of $1,005,748. The decrease in operating expenses is primarily due to decreases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, outsourced testing and product development expenses, investor relations expenses, laboratory materials and supplies, disposal of material and obsolete equipment and research and development travel expenses offset by increases in research and development consulting expenses, salaries and wages, legal and depreciation. Included in our operating expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $1,784,871 for research and development expenses compared to $2,312,662 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, for a decrease of $527,791. The decrease in research and development expenses is primarily due to decreases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, outsourced testing and product development expenses, laboratory materials and supplies, disposal of material and obsolete equipment and travel expenses offset by increases in consulting expenses, salaries and wages and depreciation. Research and development expenses currently consist primarily of compensation for employees and consultants engaged in internal research, product development activities; laboratory operations, internal material and device testing and prototype electro-optic device design, development and prototype device processing; costs; and related operating expenses. We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expense to develop and commercialize our photonic devices and electro-optic materials platform. These expenses will increase as a result of accelerated development effort to support commercialization of our non-linear optical polymer materials technology; to build photonic device prototypes in our in-house laboratories; hiring additional technical and support personnel; engaging a senior technical advisor; pursuing other potential business opportunities and collaborations; customer testing and evaluation; and incurring related operating expenses. Non-cash stock compensation and stock option and warrant amortization decreased $458,605 from $703,335 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $244,730 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Laboratory material testing expense and electro-optic device development decreased $152,654 from $245,768 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $93,114 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Laboratory materials and supplies decreased $42,224 from $159,307 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $117,083 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Disposal of material and obsolete equipment decreased $21,246 from $23,817 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $2,571 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Travel expenses decreased $19,107 from $62,429 for the nine months ending September 30, 2015 to $43,322 for the nine months ending September 30, 2016. Consulting expenses increased $139,158 from $57,493 for the nine months ending September 30, 2015 to $196,651 for the nine months ending September 30, 2016. Wages and salaries increased $18,851 from $800,043 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $818,894 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Depreciation expense increased $18,323 from $110,317 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $128,640 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and support costs for management staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including executive, sales and marketing, investor relations, accounting and finance, legal, consulting and other operating expenses. 22 General and administrative expenses decreased $477,957 to $1,257,096 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $1,735,053 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease is due primarily to decreases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization and investor relations expenses offset by increases in salaries and wages and legal expenses. General and administrative non-cash stock option and warrant amortization decreased by $497,014 to $155,028 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $652,042 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Investor relations expenses decreased by $53,910 from $87,238 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $33,328 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Salaries and wages increased $37,151 from $446,100 for the nine months ending September 30, 2015 to $483,251 for the nine months ending September 30, 2016. Legal fees increased $21,225 from $140,188 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to $161,413 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and support costs for management staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including executive, sales and marketing, investor relations, accounting and finance, legal, consulting and other operating expenses. Other Income (Expense) Other expense increased $260,142 to $260,142 for the nine months ending September 30, 2016 from $0 for the nine months ending September 30, 2015, relating to the commitment fee associated with the purchase of shares by an institutional investor for sale under a stock purchase agreement during the nine-month period. Net Loss Net loss was $3,301,918 and $4,047,528 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, for a decrease of $745,610, due primarily to decreases in non-cash stock option and warrant amortization, outsourced testing and product development expenses, investor relations expenses, laboratory materials and supplies, disposal of material and obsolete equipment and research and development travel expenses offset by increases in research and development consulting expenses, salaries and wages, legal, commitment fee associated with the purchase of shares by an institutional investor for sale under a stock purchase agreement and depreciation. Significant Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based upon historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. We believe our significant accounting policies affect our more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 contains a discussion of these significant accounting policies. There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies since December 31, 2015. See our Note 1 in our unaudited financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as set forth herein for a complete discussion of our Companys accounting policies. 23 Liquidity and Capital Resources For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, net cash used in operating activities was $2,271,725 and net cash used in investing activities was $121,104, which was due primarily to the Companys research and development activities and general and administrative expenditures. Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $964,200. At September 30, 2016, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,302,076, our assets totaled $3,560,474, our liabilities totaled $213,224, and we had stockholders equity of $3,347,250. Sources and Uses of Cash Our future expenditures and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: the progress of our research and development efforts; the rate at which we can, directly or through arrangements with original equipment manufacturers, introduce and sell products incorporating our polymer materials technology; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; market acceptance of our products and competing technological developments; and our ability to establish cooperative development, joint venture and licensing arrangements. We expect that we will incur approximately $3,600,000 of expenditures over the next 12 months. Our cash requirements are expected to increase at a rate consistent with the Companys path to revenue growth as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our electro-optic polymer technology during 2016. Our business does not presently generate the cash needed to finance our current and anticipated operations. We believe we have raised sufficient capital to finance our operations through June 2017; however, we will need to obtain additional future financing after that time to finance our operations until such time that we can conduct profitable revenue-generating activities. Such future sources of financing may include cash from equity offerings, exercise of stock options, warrants and proceeds from debt instruments; but we cannot assure you that such equity or borrowings will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. On January 29, 2016, we signed a purchase agreement with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (Lincoln Park) to sell up to $20,000,000 of common stock whereby subject to certain conditions and at our sole discretion, Lincoln Park has committed to purchase up to $20,000,000 of our common stock over a 36-month period. In April 2016 our registration statement became effective, which registered for resale by Lincoln Park under the purchase agreement 5,000,000 shares of our common stock, 350,000 of which were previously issued as a commitment fee and 4,650,000 of which may be sold by us to Lincoln Park during the term of the purchase agreement. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, Lincoln Park is obligated to make purchases as the Company directs in accordance with the purchase agreement, which may be terminated by the Company at any time, without cost or penalty. Sales of shares will be made in specified amounts and at prices that are based upon the market prices of our common stock immediately preceding the sales to Lincoln Park. We expect this financing to provide us with sufficient funds to maintain our operations for the foreseeable future. With the additional capital, we expect to achieve a level of revenues attractive enough to fulfill our development activities and adequate enough to support our business model for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will meet the conditions of the purchase agreement with Lincoln Park in order to obligate Lincoln Park to purchase our shares of common stock. In the event we fail to do so, and other adequate funds are not available to satisfy long-term capital requirements, or if planned revenues are not generated, we may be required to substantially limit our operations. This limitation of operations may include reductions in capital expenditures and reductions in staff and discretionary costs. There are no trading volume requirements or restrictions under the purchase agreement and we will control the timing and amount of any sales of our common stock to Lincoln Park. Lincoln Park has no right to require any sales by us, but is obligated to make purchases from us as we direct in accordance with the purchase agreement. We can also accelerate the amount of common stock to be purchased under certain circumstances. There are no limitations on use of proceeds, financial or business covenants, restrictions on future funding, rights of first refusal, participation rights, penalties or liquidated damages in the purchase agreement. Lincoln Park may not assign or transfer its rights and obligations under stock the purchase agreement. We expect that our cash used in operations will increase during 2016 and beyond as a result of the following planned activities: The addition of management, sales, marketing, technical and other staff to our workforce; Increased spending for the expansion of our research and development efforts, including purchases of additional laboratory and production equipment; 24 Increased spending in marketing as our products are introduced into the marketplace; Developing and maintaining collaborative relationships with strategic partners; Developing and improving our manufacturing processes and quality controls; and Increases in our general and administrative activities related to our operations as a reporting public company and related corporate compliance requirements. Analysis of Cash Flows For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 Net cash used in operating activities was $2,271,725 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, primarily attributable to the net loss of $3,301,918 adjusted by $73,804 in warrants issued for services, $325,954 in options issued for services, $278,142 in common stock issued for services, $145,658 in depreciation expenses and patent amortization expenses, $97,012 in prepaid expenses and $110,267 in accounts payable and accrued expenses and $644 gain on disposal of property and equipment. Net cash used in operating activities consisted of payments for research and development, legal, professional and consulting expenses, rent and other expenditures necessary to develop our business infrastructure. Net cash used by investing activities was $121,104 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, consisting of $42,799 for intangibles, $97,805 in asset additions primarily for the new lab facility and $19,500 in proceeds from sale of equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities was $964,200 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and consisted of $964,200 in proceeds from the sale of common stock to an institutional investor. Inflation and Seasonality We do not believe that our operations are significantly impacted by inflation. Our business is not seasonal in nature.