Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, included herewith. This discussion should not be construed to imply that the results discussed herein will necessarily continue into the future, or that any conclusion reached herein will necessarily be indicative of actual operating results in the future. Such discussion represents only the best present assessment of our management. This information should also be read in conjunction with our audited historical financial statements which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019. Overview Lightwave Logic, Inc. is a development stage company whose P 2 IC TM technology addresses advanced telecommunication, data communications, and data center markets utilizing its advanced organic electro-optic polymer systems. The Company currently has development activities in both polymer materials as well as device design. Materials Development Our Company designs and synthesizes organic chromophores for use in its own proprietary electro-optic polymer systems and photonic device designs. A polymer system is not solely a material, but also encompasses various technical enhancements necessary for its implementation. These include host polymers, poling methodologies, and molecular spacer systems that are customized to achieve specific optical properties. Our organic electro-optic polymer systems compounds are mixed into solution form that allows for thin film application. Our proprietary electro-optic polymers are designed at the molecular level for potentially superior performance, stability and cost-efficiency. We believe they have the potential to replace more expensive, higher power consuming, slower-performance materials and devices used in fiber-optic communication networks. Our patented and patent pending molecular architectures are based on a well-understood chemical and quantum mechanical occurrence known as aromaticity . Aromaticity provides a high degree of molecular stability that enables our core molecular structures to maintain stability under a broad range of operating conditions. We expect our patented and patent-pending optical materials along with trade secrets and licensed materials, to be the core of and the enabling technology for future generations of optical devices, modules, sub-systems and systems that we will develop or potentially out-license to electro-optic device manufacturers. Our Company contemplates future applications that may address the needs of semiconductor companies, optical network companies, Web 2.0 media companies, high performance computing companies, telecommunications companies, aerospace companies, and government agencies. Device Design and Development Electro-optic Modulators Our Company designs its own proprietary electro-optical modulation devices. Electro-optical modulators convert data from electric signals into optical signals that can then be transmitted over high-speed fiber-optic cables. Our modulators are electro-optic, meaning they work because the optical properties of the polymers are affected by electric fields applied by means of electrodes. Modulators are key components that are used in fiber optic telecommunications, data communications, and data centers networks etc., to convey the high data flows that have been driven by applications such as pictures, video streaming, movies etc., that are being transmitted through the Internet. Electro-optical modulators are expected to continue to be an essential element as the appetite and hunger for data increases every year. Polymer Photonic Integrated Circuits (P 2 IC TM ) Our Company also designs its own proprietary polymer photonic integrated circuits (otherwise termed a polymer PIC). A polymer PIC is a photonic device that integrates several photonic functions on a single chip. We believe that our technology can enable the ultra-miniaturization needed to increase the number of photonic functions residing on a semiconductor chip to create a progression like what was seen in the computer integrated circuits, commonly referred to as Moores Law. One type of integration is to combine several instances of the same photonic functions such as a plurality of modulators to create a 4 channel polymer PIC. In this case, the number of photonic components would increase by a factor of 4. Another type is to combine different types of devices including from different technology bases such as the combination of a semiconductor laser with a polymer modulator. Our P 2 IC platform encompasses both these types of architecture. 14 Current photonic technology today is struggling to reach faster device speeds. Our modulator devices, enabled by our electro-optic polymer material systems, work at extremely high frequencies (wide bandwidths) and possess inherent advantages over current crystalline electro-optic material contained in most modulator devices such as lithium niobate (LiNbO3), indium phosphide (InP), silicon (Si), and gallium arsenide GaAs). Our advanced electro-optic polymer platform is creating a new class of modulators and associated PIC platforms that can address higher data rates in a lower cost, lower power consuming manner, with much simpler modulation techniques. Our electro-optic polymers can be integrated with other materials platforms because they can be applied as a thin film coating in a fabrication clean room such as may be found in semiconductor foundries. Our polymers are unique in that they are stable enough to seamlessly integrate into existing CMOS, Indium Phosphide (InP), Gallium Arsenide (GaAs), and other semiconductor manufacturing lines. Business Strategy Our business strategy anticipates that our revenue stream will be derived from one or some combination of the following: (i) technology licensing for specific product application; (ii) joint venture relationships with significant industry leaders; or (iii) the production and direct sale of our own electro-optic device components. Our objective is to be a leading provider of proprietary technology and know-how in the electro-optic device market. In order to meet this objective, we intend to: Further the development of proprietary organic electro-optic polymer material systems Develop photonic devices based on our P 2 IC TM technology Continue to develop proprietary intellectual property Grow our commercial device development capabilities Grow our product reliability and quality assurance capabilities Grow our optoelectronic packaging and testing capabilities Grow our commercial material manufacturing capabilities Maintain/develop strategic relationships with major telecommunications and data communications companies to further the awareness and commercialization of our technology platform Continue to add high-level personnel with industrial and manufacturing experience in key areas of our materials and device development programs. Create Organic Polymer-Enabled Electro-Optic Modulators We intend to utilize our proprietary optical polymer technology to create an initial portfolio of commercial electro-optic polymer product devices with applications for various markets, including telecommunications, data communications and data centers. These product devices will be part of our proprietary photonics integrated circuit (PIC) technology platform. We expect our initial modulator products will operate at data rates at least 50 Gbaud (capable of 50 Gbps with standard data encoding of NRZ and 100 Gbps with more complex PAM-4 encoding). Our devices are highly linear, enabling the performance required to take advantage of the more advance complex encoding schemes. We are currently developing our polymer technology to operate at the next industry node of 100Gbaud. Our Proprietary Products in Development As part of a two-pronged marketing strategy, our Company is developing several optical devices, which are in various stages of development and that utilize our polymer optical materials. They include: Ridge Waveguide Modulator Our ridge electro-optic waveguide modulator was designed and fabricated in our in-house laboratory. The fabrication of our first in-house device is significant to our entire device program and is an important starting point for modulators that are being developed for target markets. We have multiple generations of new materials that we will soon be optimizing for this specific design. In September 2017 we announced that our initial alpha prototype ridge waveguide modulator, enabled by our P 2 IC polymer system, demonstrated bandwidth performance levels that will enable 50 Gbaud modulation in fiber-optic communications. This device demonstrated true amplitude (intensity) modulation in a Mach-Zehnder modulator structure incorporating our polymer waveguides. This important achievement will allow users to utilize arrays of 4 x 50 Gbaud (4x 100 Gbps) polymer modulators using PAM-4 encoding to access 400 Gbps data rate systems. These ridge waveguide modulators are currently being packaged with our partner into prototype packages. We showed an example packaged modulator at our Annual Shareholders Meeting in May 2018. 15 These prototype packages will enable potential customers to evaluate the performance at 50 Gbaud. Once a potential customer generates technical feedback on our prototype, we expect to be asked to optimize the performance to their specifications. Assuming this is successful, we expect to enter a qualification phase where our prototypes will be evaluated more fully. In parallel, we are developing modulators for scalability to higher data rates above 50 Gbaud. In September 2018, we showed in conference presentations the potential of our polymer modulator platform to operate at over 100 GHz bandwidth. This preliminary result corresponds to 100 Gbaud data rates using a simple NRZ data encoding scheme or 200 Gbps with PAM-4 encoding. With 4 channel arrays in our P 2 IC platform, the Company thus has the potential to address both 400 Gbps and 800 Gbps markets. While customers may start the engagement at 50 Gbaud, we believe potential customers recognize that scalability to higher speeds is an important differentiator of the polymer technology. We believe the ridge waveguide modulator represents our first commercially viable device and targets the fiber optics communications market. We have completed internal market analysis and are initially targeting interconnect reach distances of greater than 10km. In these markets, the system network companies are looking to implement modulator-based transceivers that can handle aggregated data rates 100 Gbps and above. The market opportunity for greater than 10km is worth over $1B over the next decade. Advanced Modulator Structures As part of supporting further improvement and scalability of our platform, we continue to explore more advanced device structures. Our functional polymer photonics slot waveguide modulator utilizes an existing modulator structure with one of our proprietary electro-optic polymer material systems as the enabling material layer and is functional as an operating prototype device. Preliminary testing and initial data on our polymer photonics slot waveguide modulators demonstrated several promising characteristics. The tested polymer photonic chip had a 1-millimeter square footprint, enabling the possibility of sophisticated integrated optical circuits on a single silicon substrate. In addition, the waveguide structure was approximately 1/20 the length of a typical inorganic-based silicon photonics modulator waveguide. With the combination of our proprietary electro-optic polymer material and the extremely high optical field concentration in the slot waveguide modulator, the test modulators demonstrated less than 2.2 volts to operate. Initial speeds exceeded 30-35 GHz in the telecom, 1550 nanometer frequency band. This is equivalent to 4 x 10Gbps, inorganic, lithium niobate modulators that would require approximately 12-16 volts to move the same amount of information. We continued with our collaborative development of our p olymer photonic slot waveguide modulator in 2014 and continued our collaboration with an associated third-party research group in 2017 and 2018. We are now designing slot modulators to operate at data rates greater than 50 Gbaud. Our Long-Term Device Development Goal - Multichannel Polymer Photonic Integrated Circuit (P 2 IC) Our P 2 IC platform is positioned to address markets with aggregated data rates of 100 Gbaud, 400 Gbaud, 800 Gbaud and beyond. Our P 2 IC platform will contain a number of photonic devices that may include, over and above polymer-based modulators, photonic devices such as lasers, multiplexers, demultiplexers, detectors, fiber couplers. While our polymer-based ridge waveguide and slot modulators are currently under development to be commercially viable products, our long-term device development goal is to produce a platform for the 400 Gbps and beyond transceiver market. This has been stated in our photonics product roadmap that is publicly available on our website. The roadmap shows a progression from: 10 Gbaud ridge waveguide modulators; to 25 Gbaud based ridge waveguide modulators; to 50 Gbaud based ridge waveguide modulators, and potentially 100 Gbaud based ridge waveguide modulators. These modulators are then arrayed to create a multichannel P 2 IC platform for the 100 Gbps, 400 Gbps, 800 Gbps, and potentially 1.6 Tbps aggregated data-rate markets. As the performance of the modulator is capable of up to 100 Gbaud, the next major milestone on our roadmap will be to create a multichannel polymer-based P 2 IC platform for the 400 Gbps market. This will be composed of either 4 channels each carrying 100 Gbps, implemented either with NRZ modulation on 100 Gbaud modulators or PAM-4 modulation on 50 Gbaud modulators. 16 For our device goals, we are developing polymer materials that perform even faster at a serial single channel 100Gbps using a NRZ modulation format. We showed bandwidths of polymer-based modulator devices at a major international conference (ECOC European Conference on Optical Communications) this year with bandwidths that exceeded 100GHz. We noted that to achieve 100Gbaud, the polymer-based modulator only has to achieve 80GHz bandwidth. We were pleased with the polymer modulator performance, and we are now optimizing the device parameters for very low voltage operation. Our Target Markets Cloud computing and data centers Big data is a general term used to describe the voluminous amount of unstructured and semi-structured data a Company creates -- data that would take too much time and cost too much money to load into a relational database for analysis. Companies are looking to cloud computing in their data centers to access all the data. Inherent speed and bandwidth limits of traditional solutions and the potential of organic polymer devices offer an opportunity to increase the bandwidth, reduce costs and improve speed of access. Datacenters have grown to enormous sizes with hundreds of thousands and even millions of servers in a single datacenter. The number of so-called hyperscale datacenters are expected to continue to increase in number. Due to their size, a single datacenter may consist of multiple large warehouse-size buildings on a campus or even several locations distributed around a metropolitan area. Data centers are confronted with the problem of moving vast amounts of data not only around a single data center building, but also between buildings in distributed data center architecture. Links within a single datacenter building may be shorter than 500 meters, though some will require optics capable of 2 km. Between datacenter buildings, there is an increasing need for high performance interconnects over 10km in reach. Our modulators are suitable for single-mode fiber optic links. We believe that our single mode modulator solutions will be competitive at 500m to 10km link distances, but it will be ideally suited at greater than 10km link distances. Telecommunications/Data Communications The telecommunications industry has evolved from transporting traditional analogue voice data over copper wire into the movement of digital voice and data. Telecommunication companies are faced with the enormous increasing challenges to keep up with the resulting tremendous explosion in demand for bandwidth. The metropolitan network is especially under stress now and into the near future. Telecommunications companies provide services to some data center customers for the inter-data center connections discussed above. 5G mobile upgrade, autonomous driving and IoT are expected to increase the need for data stored and processed close to the end user in edge data centers. This application similarly requires optics capable of very high speeds and greater than 10 km reach. Recent Significant Events and Milestones Achieved In December 2016 we achieved high-speed modulation in our first all-organic polymer ridge waveguide intensity modulator prototype, which constituted one of the most significant moments in the history of our Company. Our initial "alpha" prototype device, enabled by our P 2 IC polymer system, demonstrated bandwidth suitable for data rates up to about 10 Gbps. This performance exceeds the telecom OC-48 standard (2.5 Gbps). This device demonstrated true amplitude (intensity) modulation in a Mach-Zehnder modulator structure incorporating our polymer waveguides. In April 2017 we achieved bandwidth suitable for 25Gbps data rates in an all-organic polymer ridge waveguide intensity modulator prototype, a significant improvement over our initial 10Gbps device modulator prototype. This breakthrough was significant because a 25Gbps data rate is important to the optical networking industry because this data rate is a major node to achieve 100 Gbps (using 4 channels of 25 Gbps). In July 2017 we advanced our high-speed modulation performance to satisfy 28Gbps data rates for QSFP28 standards and 100Gbps data center applications. In September 2017 we achieved outstanding performance of our ridge waveguide Mach-Zehnder modulators ahead of schedule, with bandwidth performance levels that will enable 50Gbps modulation in fiber-optic communications. This important achievement will allow users to utilize arrays of 4 x 50Gbps polymer modulators using PAM-4 encoding to access 400Gbps data rate systems. Pulse-Amplitude Modulation (PAM-4) is an encoding scheme that can double the amount of data that can be transmitted. 17 During February and March 2018, we moved our Newark, Delaware synthetic laboratory and our Longmont, Colorado optical testing laboratory and corporate headquarters to office, laboratory and research and development space located at 369 Inverness Parkway, Suite 350, Englewood, Colorado. The 13,420 square feet Englewood facility includes fully functional 1,000 square feet of class 1,000 cleanroom, 500 square feet of class 10,000 cleanroom, chemistry laboratories, and analytic laboratories. The Englewood facility streamlines all of our Companys research and development workflow for greater operational efficiencies. During March 2018, our Company, together with our packaging partner, successfully demonstrated packaged polymer modulators designed for 50Gbps, which we believe will allow us to scale our P 2 IC platform with our Mach-Zehnder ridge waveguide modulator design as well as other photonics devices competitively in the 100Gbps and 400Gbps datacom and telecommunications applications market. We are currently fine-tuning the performance parameters of these prototypes in preparation for customer evaluations. During June 2018, our Company Acquired the Polymer Technology Intellectual Property Assets of BrPhotonics Productos Optoelectrnicos S.A., a Brazilian corporation, which significantly advanced our patent portfolio of electro-optic polymer technology with 15 polymer chemistry materials, devices, packaging and subsystems patent and further strengthened our design capabilities to solidify our market position as we prepare to enter the 400Gbps integrated photonics marketplace with a highly competitive, scalable alternative to installed legacy systems. Since June 2018, we have made significant progress on integrating this technology into our P 2 IC (polymer photonic integrated circuit) platform. Also, during June 2018, our Company promoted polymer PICs and Solidified Polymer PICs as Part of the Photonics Roadmap at the World Technology Mapping Forum in Enschede, Netherlands, which includes our Companys technology of polymers and polymer PICs that have the potential to drive not only 400Gbps aggregate data rate solutions, but also 800Gbps and beyond. In August 2018 we announced the completion (ahead of schedule) of our fully equipped on-site fabrication facility, where we are expanding our high-speed test and design capabilities. We also announced the continuation of the building of our internal expertise with the hiring of world-class technical personnel with 100Gbps experience. In February 2019 we announced a major breakthrough in our development of clean technology polymer materials that target the insatiable demand for fast and efficient data communications in the multi-billion-dollar telecom and data markets supporting Internet, 5G and IoT (Internet of Things) webscale services. The improved thermally stable polymer has more than double the electro-optic response of our previous materials, enabling optical device performance of well over 100 GHz with extremely low power requirements. This addition to the family of Perkinamine TM polymers will hold back run-away consumption of resources and energy needed to support ever-growing data consumption demands. We anticipate we will continue rigorous testing of the material and its performance in device structures during the remainder of this year before releasing it into full device development. In March 2019 we created an Advisory Board comprised of three world-class leaders in the photonics industry: Dr. Craig Ciesla, Dr. Christoph S. Harder, and Mr. Andreas Umbach. The Advisory Board will work closely with our Company leadership to enhance our Companys product positioning and promote our polymer modulator made on our proprietary Faster by Design polymer P 2 IC platform. The mission of the Advisory Board will initially be to increase our Companys outreach into the datacenter interconnect market and later to support expansion into other billion-dollar markets. The Advisory Board members have each been chosen for their combination of deep technical expertise, breadth of experience and industry relationships in the fields of fiber optics communications, polymer and semiconductor materials. Each of the Advisory Board members has experience at both innovators like Lightwave Logic and large industry leaders of the type most likely to adopt game-changing polymer-based products. In addition, they possess operational experience with semiconductor and polymer businesses. As we move forward to diligently to meet our goals, we continue to work closely with our packaging partner for the 50Gbaud prototypes, and we are advancing our reliability and characterization efforts to support our prototyping. We are actively engaged with test equipment manufacturers to deliver the most advanced test equipment for our state-of-the-art polymer results. We continue to engage with multiple industry bodies to promote our roadmap. We continue to fine tune our business model with target markets, customers, and technical specifications. Discussions with prospective customers are validating that our modulators are ideally suited for the datacenter and telecommunications markets that are over 10km in length. Details of what these prospective customers are seeking from a prototype are delivered to our technical team. 18 Capital Requirements As a development stage company, we do not generate revenues. We have incurred substantial net losses since inception. We have satisfied our capital requirements since inception primarily through the issuance and sale of our common stock. Results of Operations Comparison of three months ended March 31, 2019 to three months ended March 31, 2018 Revenues As a development stage company, we had no revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018. Our Company is in various stages of photonic device and material development and evaluation. We expect the next revenue stream to be in product development agreements and prototype devices prior to moving into production. Operati ng Expenses Our operating expenses were $1,720,483 and $1,476,267 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, for an increase of $244,216. This increase in operating expenses was due primarily due to increases in salaries and wages, laboratory and wafer fabrication materials and supplies, depreciation, product development consulting expenses, device prototypes and testing expenses, legal fees and general and administrative non-cash stock option and warrant amortization offset by decreases in office expenses, rent and utility expenses, moving expenses, research and development non-cash stock option amortization and other tax expenses. Included in our operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $1,152,053 for research and development expenses compared to $901,672 for the three months ended March 31, 2018, for an increase of $250,381. This is primarily due to increases in research and development salaries and wages, laboratory and wafer fabrication materials and supplies, depreciation, product development consulting expenses and device prototypes and testing expenses offset by decreases in rent and utility expenses and non-cash stock option amortization. Research and development expenses currently consist primarily of compensation for employees and consultants engaged in internal research, product development activities; laboratory operations, internal material and device fabrication testing and prototype electro-optic device design, development and prototype device processing; costs; and related operating expenses. We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expense to develop and commercialize our photonic devices, PIC development and electro-optic materials platform. These expenses will increase as a result of accelerated development effort to support commercialization of our non-linear optical polymer materials technology; to build photonic device prototypes in our in-house laboratories; hiring additional technical and support personnel; engaging a senior technical advisor; pursuing other potential business opportunities and collaborations; customer testing and evaluation; and incurring related operating expenses. Wages and salaries increased $85,272 from $422,443 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $507,715 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The reason for the variation was primarily due to an increase in full time technical personnel working on device and material development. Laboratory and wafer fabrication materials and supplies increased $73,509 from $60,979 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $134,488 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The primary reason for the increase was fabrication of prototype wafers and devices, and electro-optic polymer material systems. Depreciation expense increased $70,414 from $44,971 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $115,385 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The primary reason for the increase was due to the addition of capital equipment for wafer fabrication. Product development consulting expenses increased $57,371 from $91,664 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $149,035 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The primary reason for the increase was due to engaging outside consultants to speed up device development and packaging. 19 Device prototypes and testing expenses increased $27,175 from $7,325 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $34,500 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The primary reason for the increase was wafer fabrication, packaging and testing. Rent and utilities decreased $39,900 from $84,153 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $44,253 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to facility consolidation into a single location. Research and development non-cash stock option amortization decreased $15,957 from $106,451 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $90,494 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The reason for the variation was due to stock options and warrants vesting schedules. General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and support costs for management staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including executive, sales and marketing, investor relations, accounting and finance, legal, consulting and other operating expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $6,165 to $568,430 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $574,595 for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease is primarily due to decreases in office expenses, moving expenses, rent and utility expenses and other tax expenses offset by increases in general and administrative salary and wages, legal fees and general and administrative non-cash stock option and warrant amortization. Office expenses decreased $43,117 to $17,438 for the three months ending March 31, 2019 from $60,555 for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The reason for the variation was due to facility consolidation into a single location during the first quarter of 2018. Moving expenses decreased $20,606 to $0 for the three months ending March 31, 2019 from $20,606 for the three months ending March 31, 2018. The reason for the variation was due to facility consolidation into a single location during the first quarter of 2018. Rent and utilities decreased $14,464 to $18,189 for the three months ending March 31, 2019 from $32,653 for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The reason for the variation was due to facility consolidation into a single location. Other tax expenses decreased $12,768 to $57 for the three months ending March 31, 2019 from $12,825 for the three months ending March 31, 2018. The reason for the variation was due to the timing of payments of personal property tax. General and Administrative wages and salaries increased $26,534 from $117,266 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $143,800 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The primary reason for the increase was due to non-executive officer salary increase. Legal fees increased $21,140 to $77,355 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $56,215 for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The reason for the variation was due to legal services for the working capital funding agreement. General and administrative non-cash stock option and warrant amortization increased $20,255 to $115,716 for the three months ending March 31, 2019 from $95,461 for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The reason for the variation was due to stock options and warrants vesting schedules. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in future periods as we increase the level of corporate and administrative activity, including increases associated with our operation as a public company; and significantly increase expenditures related to the future production and sales of our products. Other Income (Expense) Other expenses increased $261,163 to $298,295 for the three months ending March 31, 2019 from $37,132 for the three months ending March 31, 2018, relating to the commitment fee associated with the purchase agreement. 20 Net Loss Net loss was $2,018,778 and $1,513,399 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, for an increase of $505,379, due primarily to increases in commitment fee associated with the purchase agreement, salaries and wages, laboratory and wafer fabrication materials and supplies, depreciation, product development consulting expenses, device prototypes and testing expenses, legal fees and general and administrative non-cash stock option and warrant amortization offset by decreases in office expenses, rent and utility expenses, moving expenses, research and development non-cash stock option amortization and other tax expenses. Significant Accounting Policies We believe our significant accounting policies affect our more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 contains a discussion of these significant accounting policies. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements . For information on recent accounting pronouncements, see Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1 in our unaudited financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as set forth herein. Reclassifications . Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2018 financial statement in order to conform to the 2019 financial statement presentation. Liquidity and Capital Resources During the three months ended March 31, 2019, net cash used in operating activities was $1,146,584 and net cash used in investing activities was $54,948, which was due primarily to the Companys research and development activities and general and administrative expenditures. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $1,312,538. At March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,285,631, our assets totaled $6,121,273, our liabilities totaled $1,308,838, and we had stockholders equity of $4,812,435. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in operating activities was $1,048,251 and net cash used in investing activities was $533,886, which was due primarily to the Companys research and development activities, capital equipment and general and administrative expenditures. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $910,571. At March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,810,761, our assets totaled $5,625,674, our liabilities totaled $889,552, and we had stockholders equity of $4,736,122. Sources and Uses of Cash Our future expenditures and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: the progress of our research and development efforts; the rate at which we can, directly or through arrangements with original equipment manufacturers, introduce and sell products incorporating our polymer materials technology; the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; market acceptance of our products and competing technological developments; and our ability to establish cooperative development, joint venture and licensing arrangements. We expect that we will incur approximately $535,000 of expenditures per month over the next 12 months. We expect our Lincoln Park financing (described below) to provide us with sufficient funds to maintain our operations over that period of time. Our current cash position enables us to finance our operations through August 2019 before we will be required to replenish our cash reserves pursuant to the Lincoln Park financing. Our cash requirements are expected to increase at a rate consistent with the Companys path to revenue growth as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our electro-optic polymer technology. We currently have no debt to service. 21 On January 21, 2019, our Company entered into a purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (Lincoln Park), pursuant to which Lincoln Park agreed to purchase from us up to $25,000,000 of our common stock (subject to certain limitations) from time to time over a 36-month period. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Lincoln Park is obligated to make purchases as the Company directs in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, which may be terminated by the Company at any time, without cost or penalty. Sales of shares will be made in specified amounts and at prices that are based upon the market prices of our common stock immediately preceding the sales to Lincoln Park. We expect this financing to provide us with sufficient funds to maintain our operations for the foreseeable future. With the additional capital, we expect to achieve a level of revenues attractive enough to fulfill our development activities and adequate enough to support our business model for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will meet the conditions of the Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park in order to obligate Lincoln Park to purchase our shares of common stock. In the event we fail to do so, and other adequate funds are not available to satisfy long-term capital requirements, or if planned revenues are not generated, we may be required to substantially limit our operations. This limitation of operations may include reductions in capital expenditures and reductions in staff and discretionary costs. There are no trading volume requirements or restrictions under the Purchase Agreement, and we will control the timing and amount of any sales of our common stock to Lincoln Park. Lincoln Park has no right to require any sales by us, but is obligated to make purchases from us as we direct in accordance with the Purchase Agreement. We can also accelerate the amount of common stock to be purchased under certain circumstances. There are no limitations on use of proceeds, financial or business covenants, restrictions on future funding, rights of first refusal, participation rights, penalties or liquidated damages in the Purchase Agreement. Lincoln Park may not assign or transfer its rights and obligations under the purchase agreement. We expect that our cash used in operations will continue to increase during 2019 and beyond as a result of the following planned activities: The addition of management, sales, marketing, technical and other staff to our workforce; Increased spending for the expansion of our research and development efforts, including purchases of additional laboratory and production equipment; Increased spending in marketing as our products are introduced into the marketplace; Developing and maintaining collaborative relationships with strategic partners; Developing and improving our manufacturing processes and quality controls; and Increases in our general and administrative activities related to our operations as a reporting public company and related corporate compliance requirements. Analysis of Cash Flows For the three months ended March 31, 2019 Net cash used in operating activities was $1,146,584 for the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily attributable to the net loss of $2,018,778 adjusted by $18,827 in warrants issued for services, $187,383 in options issued for services, $298,356 in common stock issued for services, $138,832 in depreciation expenses and patent amortization expenses, $242,535 in prepaid expenses and ($13,739) in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities consisted of payments for research and development, legal, professional and consulting expenses, rent and other expenditures necessary to develop our business infrastructure. Net cash used by investing activities was $54,948 for the three months ended March 31, 2019, consisting of $11,810 in cost for intangibles and $43,138 in asset additions primarily for the new Colorado headquarter facility. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,312,538 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and consisted of $1,419,585 in proceeds from resale of common stock to an institutional investor offset by $107,047 repayment of equipment purchased. 22 For the three months ended March 31, 2018 Net cash used in operating activities was $1,048,251 for the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily attributable to the net loss of $1,513,399 adjusted by $25,337 in warrants issued for services, $176,575 in options issued for services, $37,194 in common stock issued for services, $58,372 in depreciation expenses and patent amortization expenses, ($2,500) gain on the sale of equipment, $12,584 loss on asset write off, $17,960 in prepaid expenses and $139,626 in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities consisted of payments for research and development, legal, professional and consulting expenses, rent and other expenditures necessary to develop our business infrastructure. Net cash used by investing activities was $533,886 for the three months ended March 31, 2018, consisting of $21,527 in cost for intangibles and $514,859 in asset additions primarily for the new Colorado headquarter facility offset by proceeds of $2,500 on the sale of equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities was $910,571 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and consisted of $993,700 in proceeds from resale of common stock to an institutional investor, offset by $83,129 repayment of equipment purchased. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in our contractual commitments during the three months ended March 31, 2019. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2019, we do not have an interest in any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors.