Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include but are not limited to the factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2015 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, would, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continues or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There may be other factors of which we are currently unaware or deem immaterial that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this document and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained elsewhere in this document. Overview About us. We employ innovative e-commerce marketplace solutions to manage, value, and sell inventory and equipment for business and government clients. We operate a network of leading e-commerce marketplaces that enable buyers and sellers to transact in an efficient, automated environment offering over 500 product categories. Our marketplaces provide professional buyers access to a global, organized supply of new, surplus, and scrap assets presented with digital images and other relevant product information. Additionally, we enable our corporate and government sellers to enhance their financial return on offered assets by providing a liquid marketplace and value-added services that encompass the consultative management, valuation, and sale of surplus assets. Our broad range of services include program management, valuation, asset management, reconciliation, RTV & RMA, refurbishment & recycling, fulfillment, marketing & sales, warehousing & transportation, buyer customer support, and compliance & risk mitigation. We organize the products on our marketplaces into categories across major industry verticals such as consumer electronics, general merchandise, apparel, scientific equipment, aerospace parts and equipment, technology hardware, energy equipment, industrial capital assets, fleet and transportation equipment and specialty equipment. Our marketplaces are www.liquidation.com, www.govliquidation.com, www.govdeals.com, www.networkintl.com, www.truckcenter.com, www.secondipity.com, and www.go-dove.com. We have over 8,000 clients, including Fortune 1000 and Global 500 organizations as well as government agencies. We have one reportable segment consisting of operating e-commerce marketplaces for sellers and buyers of new, surplus, and scrap assets. We believe our ability to create liquid marketplaces for surplus and salvage assets generates a continuous flow of goods from our corporate and government sellers. This flow of goods in turn attracts an increasing number of professional buyers to our marketplaces. During the 12 months ended June 30, 2016, the number of registered buyers grew from approximately 2,805,000 to approximately 2,958,000, or 5.5%. 21 Table of Contents Our revenue. We generate substantially all of our revenue by retaining a percentage of the proceeds from the sales we manage for our sellers. We offer our sellers various transaction models. Consignment model fee revenue. Under our consignment model, we recognize commission revenue from sales of merchandise in our marketplaces that is owned by others. These commissions, which we refer to as seller commissions, represent a percentage of the sale price the buyer pays upon completion of a transaction. We vary the percentage amount of the seller commission depending on the various value-added services we provide to the seller to facilitate the transaction. For example, we generally increase the percentage amount of the commission if we take possession, handle, ship, or provide enhanced product information for the merchandise. In most cases we collect the seller commission by deducting the appropriate amount from the sales proceeds prior to their distribution to the seller after completion of the transaction. Revenue from our consignment model accounted for approximately 20.9% and 20.4% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. The merchandise sold under our consignment model accounted for approximately 65.9% and 63.2% of our GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. Purchase model. Under our purchase model, we offer our sellers a fixed amount or the option to share a portion of the proceeds received from our completed sales in the form of a distribution. Distributions are calculated based on the value we receive from the sale after deducting a required return to us that we have negotiated with the seller. Because we are the primary obligor, and take general and physical inventory risks and credit risk under this transaction model, we recognize as revenue the sale price paid by the buyer upon completion of a transaction. Revenue from our purchase model accounted for approximately 64.2% and 65.3% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. The merchandise sold under our purchase model accounted for approximately 29.9% and 32.0% of our GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. Other . This revenue category is intended to include revenue from profit-sharing and non-consignment fee revenue. Under our profit-sharing model, we purchase inventory from our suppliers and share with them a portion of the profits received from a completed sale in the form of a distribution. Other revenue accounted for approximately 14.9% and 14.3% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 and approximately 4.2% and 4.8% of our GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. We collect a buyer premium on substantially all of our transactions under all of our transaction models. Buyer premiums are calculated as a percentage of the sale price of the merchandise sold and are paid to us by the buyer. Buyer premiums are in addition to the price of the merchandise. Under our profit-sharing model, we typically share the proceeds of any buyer premiums with our sellers. Industry trends. We believe there are several industry trends impacting the growth of our business including: (1) the increase in the adoption of the Internet by businesses to conduct e-commerce both in the United States and abroad; (2) in the near term the decrease in the volume, innovation, and price of consumer electronic products, resulting in lower supply from our retail clients and lower per unit prices and margins in our retail goods marketplace, although in the long term we expect innovation in the retail supply chain will increase the pace of product obsolescence and, therefore, the supply of surplus assets; (3) the increase in the volume of returned merchandise handled by both online and offline retailers; (4) the increase in government regulations and the need for corporations to have sustainability solutions necessitating verifiable recycling and remarketing of surplus assets; (5) the increase in outsourcing by corporate and government organizations of disposition activities for surplus and end-of-life assets as they focus on reducing costs, improving transparency, compliance and working capital flows, and increasingly prefer service providers with a proven track record, innovative scalable solutions and the ability to make a strategic impact in the reverse supply chain, which we expect to increase our seller base; and (6) an increase in buyer demand for surplus merchandise as consumers trade down by purchasing less expensive goods and seek greater value from their purchases, which results in lower per unit prices and margins in our retail goods vertical. 22 Table of Contents Our Seller Agreements Our DoD agreements. We have two contracts with the DoD pursuant to which we acquire, manage and sell excess property: Surplus Contract. The Surplus Contract is a competitive-bid contract under which we acquire, manage and sell usable DoD surplus personal property turned into the DLA Disposition Services (DLA). Surplus property generally consists of items determined by the DoD to be no longer needed, and not claimed for reuse by, any federal agency, such as computers, electronics, office supplies, scientific and medical equipment, aircraft parts, clothing and textiles. The Surplus Contract requires us to purchase all usable surplus property offered by the DoD at 4.35% of the DoDs original acquisition value (OAV). The current, or third, Surplus Contract became effective December 2014, covers only non-rolling stock and has a base term of two years with four one-year renewal options. The prior, or second, Surplus Contract requires us to purchase all rolling and non-rolling usable surplus property offered by the DoD at 1.8% of the DoDs OAV; the wind-down period under the second Surplus Contract will remain in effect until January 2017 to allow for the continued processing of usable Recycling Control Point (RCP) non-rolling stock surplus property. Revenue from the second and third Surplus Contracts (including buyer premiums) accounted for approximately 30.9% and 31.0% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. The property sold under the second and third Surplus Contracts accounted for approximately 11.7% and 13.1% of our GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. The DoD has broad discretion to determine what property will be made available for sale to us under the Surplus Contract and may retrieve or restrict property previously sold to us for national security reasons or if the property is otherwise needed to support the mission of the DoD. Scrap Contract. In June 2005 the Company was awarded the original Scrap Contract which was structured as a profit-sharing arrangement with 75.2% of the profits distributed to the DLA, and 1.8% to a third party. The contract was amended in June 2015 to adjust the DLA profit sharing percentage to 65.0%, eliminating the distribution to the third party. The Scrap Contract is a competitive-bid contract under which we acquire, manage and sell substantially all scrap property of the DoD turned into the DLA. Scrap property generally consists of items determined by the DoD to have no use beyond their base material content, such as metals, alloys, and building materials. 23 Table of Contents Under the Scrap Contract, we acquire scrap property at a per pound price and disburse to the DLA a percentage of the profits, currently 65%, realized from the sale of the inventory, after deduction for allowable expenses. We refer to these disbursement payments to the DoD as profit-sharing distributions. We recognize as revenue the gross proceeds from these sales. The DoD reimburses us for certain direct expenses deemed to be payable by the DOD rather than by us. During fiscal 2015, if the Companys customer base met certain small business criteria as defined in the contract, we received an additional incentive payment which was withheld from payments to the DLA. The current Scrap Contract will expire on September 30, 2016. On April 8, 2016, the DLA awarded the next Scrap Contract to the Company. Under the new Scrap Contract, the Company will acquire scrap property from the DLA and pay the DLA a revenue-sharing payment equal to 64.5% of the gross resale proceeds. The Company will bear all of the costs for the sorting, merchandising and sale of the property. The new Scrap Contract has a 36-month base term, commencing in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, with two 12-month extension options exercisable by the DLA. Revenue from the Scrap contract accounted for approximately 8.6% and 9.8% of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. The Scrap contract accounted for approximately 4.1% and 4.8% of our total GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016. Our Wal-Mart Contracts . We have various contracts with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., under which we purchase certain consumer products from Wal-Mart that have been removed from the sales stream of its retail operations. All of these agreements have customary commercial terms, which generally expire within a year and allow both parties to terminate for convenience with reasonable notice. We also had a long-term contract with Wal-Mart that did not provide for termination for convenience (the Wal-Mart Agreement). On December 1, 2014, Wal-Mart alleged that we failed to comply with certain provisions under the Wal-Mart Agreement and terminated the agreement effective December 8, 2014. We disputed these allegations and contested the termination of the Wal-Mart Agreement. On January 22, 2015, we finalized a settlement with Wal-Mart whereby, in exchange for both parties waiving all respective claims against the other, Wal-Mart agreed to pay $7.5 million in damages. The amount of the settlement was recorded within accounts receivable and a reduction of inventory on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014, as the settlement compensated us for the overpayment of inventory from Wal-Mart. We received the payment in February 2015. On September 30, 2015, we sold certain assets related to the Jacobs Trading Company to a buyer, Tanager Acquisitions, LLC. In connection with the disposition, the buyer assumed certain liabilities related to the Jacobs Trading Company. The buyer issued to us a promissory note in the amount of $12.3 million. The divestiture of the Jacobs Trading Company resulted in an $8.0 million loss. The sale generated a tax loss that resulted in a $31.5 million cash benefit from prior year income taxes and $2.0 million of additional tax credits available to offset future taxes. In March, 2016, we received $30.1 million of the cash benefit and expect to receive the remaining $1.4 million in fiscal year 2017. We also received $5.0 million for an overpayment of taxes paid in fiscal year 2015 to bring our total tax refund to $35.1 million in June, 2016. Our commercial agreements. We have over 600 corporate clients each of which has sold in excess of $10,000 of surplus and salvage assets in our marketplaces during the last twelve months. Our agreements with these clients are generally terminable at will by either party. 24 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics Our management periodically reviews certain key business metrics for operational planning purposes and to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocation of resources and our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. These key business metrics include: Gross merchandise volume. Gross merchandise volume, or GMV, is the total sales value of all merchandise sold through our marketplaces during a given period. We review GMV because it provides a measure of the volume of goods being sold in our marketplaces and thus the activity of those marketplaces. GMV also provides a means to evaluate the effectiveness of investments that we have made and continue to make, including in the areas of customer support, value-added services, product development, sales and marketing, and operations. The GMV of goods sold in our marketplaces during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 totaled $178.5 million and $482.9 million, and $193.6 million and $628.3 million, respectively. Total registered buyers. We grow our buyer base through a combination of marketing and promotional efforts. A person becomes a registered buyer by completing an online registration process on one of our marketplaces. As part of this process, we collect business and personal information, including name, title, company name, business address and contact information, and information on how the person intends to use our marketplaces. Each prospective buyer must also accept our terms and conditions of use. Following the completion of the online registration process, we verify each prospective buyers e-mail address and confirm that the person is not listed on any banned persons list maintained internally or by the U.S. federal government. After the verification process, which is completed generally within 24 hours, the registration is approved and activated and the prospective buyer is added to our registered buyer list. Total registered buyers, as of a given date, represent the aggregate number of persons or entities who have registered on one of our marketplaces. We use this metric to evaluate how well our marketing and promotional efforts are performing. Total registered buyers excludes duplicate registrations, buyers who are suspended from utilizing our marketplaces and those buyers who have voluntarily removed themselves from our registration database. In addition, if we become aware of registered buyers that are no longer in business, we remove them from our database. As of June 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015, we had approximately 2,958,000 and 2,845,000 registered buyers, respectively. Total auction participants. For each auction we manage, the number of auction participants represents the total number of registered buyers who have bid one or more times in that auction. As a result, a registered buyer who bids, or participates, in more than one auction is counted as an auction participant in each auction in which he or she participates. Thus, total auction participants for a given period is the sum of the auction participants in each auction conducted during that period. We use this metric to allow us to compare our online auction marketplaces to our competitors, including other online auction sites and traditional on-site auctioneers. In addition, we measure total auction participants on a periodic basis to evaluate the activity level of our base of registered buyers and to measure the performance of our marketing and promotional efforts. For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, approximately 642,000 and 1,840,000, and 611,000 and 1,882,000, total auction participants participated in auctions on our marketplaces, respectively. Completed transactions. Completed transactions represents the number of auctions in a given period from which we have recorded revenue. Similar to GMV, we believe that completed transactions is a key business metric because it provides an additional measurement of the volume of activity flowing through our marketplaces. During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, we completed approximately 151,000 and 437,000, and 137,000 and 428,000 transactions, respectively. 25 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure and is equal to net income plus interest expense and other (income) expense, net; provision for income taxes; and depreciation and amortization. Our definition of adjusted EBITDA differs from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition costs such as transaction expenses and changes in earn out estimates, business realignment expense, disposition expenses, and goodwill and long-lived asset impairment. We believe EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are useful to an investor in evaluating our performance for the following reasons: Depreciation and amortization expense primarily relates to property and equipment and the amortization of contract intangibles related to the amortization and subsequent write-off of the contract related intangible assets associated with the Jacobs Trading acquisition, which closed on October 1, 2011 and the NESA acquisition, which closed on November 1, 2012. Both of these expenses are non-cash charges that have fluctuated significantly over the past five years. As a result, we believe that adding back these non-cash charges to net income is useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. As a result of varying federal and state income tax rates, we believe that presenting a financial measure that adjusts net income for provision for income taxes is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business. The authoritative guidance for stock-based compensation requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to be recognized in the income statement based on their estimated fair values. We believe adjusting net income for this stock based compensation expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business. The authoritative guidance related to business combinations requires the recognition of contingent consideration so that it is recognized at the time of acquisition rather than when it is probable and disallows the capitalization of transaction costs. We believe adjusting net income for these acquisition related expenses is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. We believe these measures are important indicators of our operational strength and the performance of our business because they provide a link between profitability and operating cash flow. We believe isolating non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as business realignment expenses, disposition expenses, impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our performance. We also believe that analysts and investors use EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as supplemental measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of companies in our industry. Our management uses EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA: as measurements of operating performance because they assist us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as they remove the impact of items not directly resulting from our core operations; for planning purposes, including the preparation of our internal annual operating budget; to allocate resources to enhance the financial performance of our business; to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies; and to evaluate our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. 26 Table of Contents EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as calculated by us are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In addition, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA: (a) do not represent net income or cash flows from operating activities as defined by GAAP; (b) are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as alternatives to net income, income from operations, cash provided by operating activities or our other financial information as determined under GAAP. We prepare adjusted EBITDA by adjusting EBITDA to eliminate the impact of items that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. You are encouraged to evaluate these adjustments and the reasons we consider them appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an implication that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. The table below reconciles net income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented. Three Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 (In thousands) (unaudited) Net (loss) income $ (124 ) $ 1,615 $ (6,171 ) $ (61,120 ) Interest and other expense (income), net 208 8 (242 ) 85 Benefit for income taxes (17 ) (1,629 ) (2,438 ) (20,156 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,616 2,044 4,948 7,241 EBITDA 1,683 2,038 (3,903 ) (73,950 ) Stock compensation expense 3,084 3,499 8,228 8,911 Acquisition costs and related fair value adjustments and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 39 96,238 Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,767 $ 5,537 $ 4,364 $ 31,199 27 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. A critical accounting estimate is one which is both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We continuously evaluate our critical accounting estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue recognition. For transactions in our online marketplaces, which generate substantially all of our revenue, we recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met: a buyer submits the winning bid in an auction and, as a result, evidence of an arrangement exists and the sale price has been determined; the buyer has assumed risks and rewards of ownership; and collection is reasonably assured. Most of our sales are recorded subsequent to payment authorization being received, utilizing credit cards, wire transfers and PayPal, an Internet based payment system, as methods of payments. As a result, we are not subject to significant collection risk, as goods are generally not shipped before payment is received. Fee revenue is revenue earned under the consignment model, as well as other fee revenue, and is presented separately as it accounts for more than 10% of total revenue. Revenue is also evaluated for reporting revenue of gross proceeds when we act as the principal in the arrangement or net of commissions when we act as an agent. In arrangements in which we are deemed to be the primary obligor, bear physical and general inventory risk, and credit risk, we recognize as revenue the gross proceeds from the sale, including buyers premiums. In arrangements in which we act as an agent or broker on a consignment basis, without taking general or physical inventory risk, revenue is recognized based on the sales commissions that are paid to us by the sellers for utilizing our services; in this situation, sales commissions represent a percentage of the gross proceeds from the sale that the seller pays to us upon completion of the transaction. We have evaluated our revenue recognition policy related to sales under our profit-sharing model and determined it is appropriate to account for these sales on a gross basis. The following factors were most heavily relied upon in our determination: We are the primary obligor in the arrangement. We are the seller in substance and in appearance to the buyer; the buyer contacts us if there is a problem with the purchase. Only we and the buyer are parties to the sales contract and the buyer has no recourse to the supplier. If the buyer has a problem, he or she looks to us, not the supplier. The buyer does not and cannot look to the supplier for fulfillment or for product acceptability concerns. We have general inventory risk. We take title to the inventory upon paying the amount set forth in the contract with the supplier. Such amount is generally a percentage of the suppliers original acquisition cost and varies depending on the type of the inventory purchased or a fixed price per pound under our Scrap Contract. We are at risk of loss for all amounts paid to the supplier in the event the property is damaged or otherwise becomes unsaleable. In addition, as payments made for inventory are excluded from the calculation for the profit-sharing distribution under our DoD contracts, we effectively bear inventory risk for the full amount paid to acquire the property ( i.e. , there is no sharing of inventory risk). 28 Table of Contents The amount of our revenue that was generated outside of the U.S. for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was 12.3% and 12.4%, and 10.4% and 12.8%, respectively. Inventory. Inventory consists of products available for sale and is valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments based on currently available information about expected recoverable value. Business Combinations. We recognize all of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies, and contingent consideration at their fair value on the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognized separately from the acquisition and expensed as incurred. Generally, restructuring costs incurred in periods subsequent to the acquisition date are expensed when incurred. Subsequent changes to the purchase price (i.e., working capital adjustments) or other fair value adjustments determined during the measurement period are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill. All subsequent changes to a valuation allowance or uncertain tax position that relate to the acquired company and existed at the acquisition date that occur both within the measurement period and as a result of facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date are recognized as an adjustment to goodwill. All other changes in valuation allowances are recognized as a reduction or increase to income tax expense. Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets. We identify and value intangible assets that we acquire in business combinations, such as customer arrangements, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, that arise from contractual or other legal rights or that are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. The fair value of identified intangible assets is based upon an estimate of the future economic benefits expected to result from ownership, which represents the amount at which the assets could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. Examples of such events or circumstances could include a significant change in business climate, a loss of significant customers, or a significant decline in stock price. We make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood of goodwill impairment to determine whether we should calculate the fair value of a reporting unit. If our evaluation indicates a likelihood of goodwill impairment, we apply a two-step fair value-based test to assess goodwill for impairment of our two reporting units. The first step compares the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is then performed. The second step compares the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill to the implied fair value of the goodwill. If the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss would be recorded in our statements of operations. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are also reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be realizable. Our management makes certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine the fair value of net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. The valuations employ a combination of present value techniques to measure fair value, corroborated by comparisons to estimated market multiples. These valuations are based on a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. We perform the annual goodwill impairment assessment as of the end of the fiscal year. During the three months ended December 31, 2014, we identified indicators of impairment, including the termination of the Wal-Mart Agreement on December 1, 2014, the significant decline in market capitalization during the quarter, and continued uncertainty in projections for fiscal year 2015 and beyond. As a result, we tested the goodwill for impairment as of December 31, 2014. Based on the goodwill impairment analysis as of the interim testing date, the carrying values of our two reporting units exceeded their fair values. Accordingly, we performed step two of the goodwill impairment test, where we determined the estimated fair values of the assets and liabilities of the reporting units. As a result of step two of the goodwill impairment test, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $85.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2015. As part of our annual impairment assessment as of September 30, 2015, we identified indicators of impairment, including a decline in our market capitalization. As a result, we tested the goodwill for impairment as of September 30, 2015. Based on the results of step one of our goodwill impairment analysis as of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015, the carrying values of both of our two reporting units exceeded their fair value. Accordingly, we performed step two of the goodwill impairment test and determined the estimated fair value of the assets and liabilities of the impaired reporting units. As a result of step two of the goodwill impairment test, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $51.2 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. During the nine months ended June 30, 2016, we did not identify any indicators of impairment. In accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280 (ASC 280), which provides that the characteristics of a component require that it (a) constitutes a business, (b) has discrete financial information, and (c) its performance is reviewed by management, the Company has identified its reporting units as LSI-Retail Supply Chain Group (RSCG) and LSI-Capital Assets Group 29 Table of Contents (CAG). As the RSCG operations and the CAG operations represent two distinct components under the guidance of ASC 280, goodwill should be measured for impairment separately for each of these components. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgments about the appropriate discount rates, terminal growth rates, weighted average costs of capital, exit multiples, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The judgments used in determining the fair value of our reporting units are based on significant unobservable inputs which causes the determination of the implied fair value of goodwill to fall within level three of the GAAP fair value hierarchy. The cash flows employed in the discounted cash flow analysis are based on the most recent budgets, forecasts, and business plans as well as various growth rate assumptions for years beyond the current business plan period. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future revenue streams and cash flows of the reporting unit. Various factors, including the failure to successfully implement our business plan for any of our reporting units, as well as other factors beyond our control, could have a negative effect on the fair value of such reporting unit, and increase the risk of further impairments of goodwill in the future. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets, which totaled $67.1 million at June 30, 2016. Such events may include strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our base of buyers and sellers or material negative changes in our relationships with material customers. Income taxes. We account for income taxes using the asset and liability approach for measuring deferred taxes based on temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities existing at each balance sheet date using enacted tax rates for the years in which the taxes are expected to be paid or recovered. A valuation allowance is provided to reduce the deferred tax assets to a level that we believe will more likely than not be realized. The resulting net deferred tax asset reflects managements estimate of the amount that will be realized. As of June 30, 2016, the Company had approximately $22.1 million in net deferred tax assets. In the future, it is possible that a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax asset will be required, which could materially increase the Companys expense in the period the allowance is recognized and adversely affect its results of operations and statement of financial condition. We apply the authoritative guidance related to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. We concluded that there were no uncertain tax positions identified during our analysis. We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of federal and state tax liabilities. These estimates include, among other items, effective rates for state and local income taxes, estimates related to depreciation and amortization expense allowable for tax purposes, and the tax deductibility of certain other items. Our estimates are based on the information available to us at the time we prepare the income tax provision. We generally file our annual income tax returns several months after our fiscal year-end. Income tax returns are subject to audit by federal, state and local governments, generally years after the returns are filed. These returns could be subject to material adjustments or differing interpretations of the tax laws. Stock-based compensation. We recognize all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, in the statements of operations based on their estimated fair values. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair values of share-based payments. The above list is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting estimates. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with little need for managements judgment in their application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. See our audited financial statements and related notes, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP. Components of Revenue and Expenses Revenue. We generate substantially all of our revenue from sales of merchandise held in inventory and by retaining a percentage of the proceeds from the sales. Our revenue recognition practices are discussed in more detail in the section above entitled Critical Accounting Estimates . Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold includes the costs of purchasing and transporting property for auction, as well as credit card transaction fees. 30 Table of Contents Profit-sharing distributions. Our Scrap Contract with the DoD has been structured as a profit-sharing arrangement in which we purchase and take possession of all goods we receive from the DoD at a contractual price per pound. After deducting allowable operating expenses, we disburse to the DoD on a monthly basis a percentage of the profits of the aggregate monthly sales. We retain the remaining percentage of these profits after the DoDs disbursement. We refer to these disbursement payments to the DoD as profit-sharing distributions. Technology and operations. Technology expenses consist primarily of personnel costs related to our programming staff who develop and deploy new marketplaces and continuously enhance existing marketplaces. These personnel also develop and upgrade the software systems that support our operations, such as sales processing. Because our marketplaces and support systems require frequent upgrades and enhancements to maintain viability, we have determined that the useful life for certain of our internally developed software is less than one year. As a result, we expense those costs as incurred. However, where we determine that the useful life of the internally developed software will be greater than one year, we capitalize development costs in accordance with ASC 350. Operations expenses consist primarily of operating costs, including buyer relations, shipping logistics and distribution center operating costs. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses include the cost of our sales and marketing personnel as well as the cost of marketing and promotional activities. These activities include online marketing campaigns such as paid search advertising. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses include all corporate and administrative functions that support our operations and provide an infrastructure to facilitate our future growth. Components of these expenses include executive management and staff salaries, bonuses and related taxes and employee benefits; travel; headquarters rent and related occupancy costs; and legal and accounting fees. The salaries, bonus and employee benefits costs included as general and administrative expenses are generally more fixed in nature than our operating expenses and do not vary directly with the volume of merchandise sold through our marketplaces. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expenses consist primarily of the depreciation and amortization of amounts recorded in connection with the purchase of furniture, fixtures and equipment and amortization of intangible assets from our acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization also consists of the amortization of our contract intangibles associated with the Jacobs Trading acquisition on October 1, 2011, and the NESA transaction on November 1, 2012. The intangible asset created in conjunction with the acquisition of Jacobs Trading was valued at $33.3 million and was being amortized over 55 months on a straight-line basis. The amortization period was correlated to the base term of the Wal-Mart contract from the acquisition date, exclusive of renewal periods. Upon the early termination of the Wal-Mart contract in December 2014, we expensed the remaining amount of unamortized expense of approximately $10.3 million during the three months ended December 2014. The vendor contract intangible asset created in conjunction with the NESA acquisition was valued at $3.9 million and was being amortized over 20 months, on a straight-line basis. The amortization period was correlated to the base term of the contract, from the acquisition date, exclusive of renewal periods. Acquisition costs and related fair value adjustments and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets. Acquisition costs and related fair value adjustments and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets consist of expenses incurred to complete a business combination, adjustments to the fair value of earn-outs, and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets. Interest (income) expense and other expense, net. Interest (income) expense and other expense, net consists of interest income on the note receivable related to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company, expenses related to our terminated credit facility, and impacts of foreign currency fluctuations. Income taxes. For interim income tax reporting the Company estimates its annual effective tax rate and applies this effective tax rate to its year to date pre-tax (loss) income. The Companys effective income tax rate before discrete items was 28.3% for the nine months ended June 30, 2016. The 2016 effective tax rate differed from the statutory federal rate of 35.0% primarily as a result of the impact of foreign, state, and local income taxes and permanent tax adjustments. We expect our future years tax rates to be between 30% and 40%. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, selected statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Cost of goods sold 46.1 39.9 44.6 41.8 Profit-sharing distributions 3.1 7.1 3.2 7.4 Technology and operations 26.5 27.6 29.4 24.0 Sales and marketing 11.7 11.4 12.0 9.9 General and administrative 10.6 11.7 12.4 9.8 Depreciation and amortization 1.9 2.3 2.1 2.3 Acquisition costs and related fair value adjustments and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 0.0 30.3 Total costs and expenses 99.9 100.0 103.7 125.5 Income (loss) from operations 0.1 (0.0 ) (3.7 ) (25.5 ) Interest and other (expense) income, net (0.2 ) (0.0 ) 0.1 (0.0 ) (Loss) before provision for income taxes (0.1 ) (0.0 ) (3.6 ) (25.5 ) Benefit for income taxes 0.0 1.8 1.0 6.3 Net (loss) income (0.1 )% 1.8 % (2.6 )% (19.2 )% Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 Revenue. Revenue decreased $4.5 million, or 5.1%, to $85.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $89.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, primarily due to (1) a 7.2% decrease, or $3.5 million, in our commercial marketplaces due to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company in fiscal 2015, and the wind down of the NESA refurbishment business in Canada, reduced product flows within our retail vertical, partially offset by stronger capital assets deal flow; and (2) a 5.4% decrease, or $1.9 million, in our DoD businesses due to lower commodity prices and a shift in property mix to lower valued property provided under our Scrap and Surplus contracts, partly offset by higher service revenue. These revenue decreases were partially offset by a 15.2% increase, or $0.8 million, in our state and local government (GovDeals) marketplace due to an increase in the number of new sellers and additional sales volume from existing clients. The amount of gross merchandise volume decreased 7.8%, or $15.1 million to $178.5 million, for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $193.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, due to (1) a 16.7% GMV decrease, or $17.2 million, in our commercial marketplaces due to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company, the wind down of the NESA business, reduced product flows within our retail business, offset by stronger capital assets deal flow; and (2) a 20.5% GMV decrease, or $7.2 million, in our DoD contracts due to lower commodity prices and a shift in property mix to lower valued property provided under our Scrap and Surplus contracts. These GMV decreases were partially offset by a 17.1% GMV increase, or $9.4 million, in our state and local government (GovDeals) marketplace due to an increase in the number of new sellers and additional sales volume from existing clients. Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold increased $3.5 million, or 9.6%, to $39.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $35.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. This increase is primarily attributed to the increase in the price we pay for inventory under the current Surplus Contract as well as a greater mix of deals in the commercial marketplaces where we act as principal, offset by the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company, and the wind down of the NESA refurbishment business in Canada. In line with these changes, cost of goods sold increased to 46.1% of revenue, from 39.9%. Profit-sharing distributions. Profit-sharing distributions decreased $3.7 million, or 58.1%, to $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $6.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. As a percentage of revenue, profit-sharing distributions decreased to 3.1% from 7.1%. This is due to decreases in property flow from the DoD in our scrap business and lower commodity prices. 32 Table of Contents Technology and operations expenses. Technology and operations expenses decreased $2.2 million, or 9.0%, to $22.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $24.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, due to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company in fiscal 2015. As a percentage of revenue, technology and operations expenses decreased to 26.5% from 27.6%. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses slightly decreased $0.3 million, or 2.8%, to $10.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $10.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, due to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company in fiscal 2015. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses slightly increased to 11.7% from 11.4% in the prior year, primarily as a result of the decrease in revenue described above. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $1.4 million, or 13.7%, to $9.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $10.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, due to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company, and the wind down of the NESA business. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses decreased to 10.6% from 11.7% in the prior year. Depreciation and amortization expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $0.4 million, or 21.0%, to $1.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $2.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, as a result of certain software purchases having reached the end of their amortization period, as well as the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company in fiscal 2015 and its related depreciable assets. Interest and other (expense) income, net. Interest and other (expense) income, net, increased $0.2 million, to $0.2 million of expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from zero for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Interest and other (expense) income, net included impacts of foreign currency fluctuations. Benefit for income taxes. Benefit for income taxes decreased $1.6 million, to a benefit of zero for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from a benefit of $1.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Net (loss) income. Net loss for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was ($0.1) million compared to income of $1.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Nine Months Ended June 30, 2016 Compared to Nine Months Ended June 30, 2015 Revenue. Revenue decreased $79.9 million, or 25.1%, to $237.9 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $317.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015, due to (1) a 29.3% decrease, or $51.3 million, in our commercial marketplaces due to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company in fiscal 2015, the wind down of the NESA refurbishment business in Canada, reduced product flows within our retail vertical, continued weakness in the energy sector, partially offset by stronger capital assets deal flow; and (2) a 24.0% decrease, or $30.7 million, in our DoD contracts due to lower commodity prices and a shift in property mix to lower valued property provided under our Scrap and Surplus contracts, partly offset by higher service revenue. These decreases were partially offset by a 13.9% increase, or $2.1 million, in our state and local government (GovDeals) marketplace due to an increase in the number of new sellers and additional sales volume from existing clients. The amount of gross merchandise volume decreased 23.1%, or $145.4 million to $482.9 million, for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $628.3 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015, due to (1) a 35.1% GMV decrease, or $124.6 million, in our commercial marketplaces due to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company, the wind down of the NESA business, reduced product flows within our retail vertical, and continued weakness in the energy sector; and (2) a 32.4% GMV decrease, or $41.4 million, in our DoD contracts due to lower commodity prices and a shift in property mix to lower valued property provided under our Scrap and Surplus contracts. These GMV decreases were partially offset by a 14.1% GMV increase, or $20.5 million, in our state and local government (GovDeals) marketplace due to an increase in the number of new sellers and additional sales volume from existing clients. Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold decreased $26.7 million, or 20.1%, to $106.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $132.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. This decrease is primarily attributed to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company and reduced product flows within our retail vertical, as well as the wind down of the NESA refurbishment business in Canada. This decrease was partially offset by the increase in the price we pay for inventory under the current Surplus Contract as well as a greater mix of deals in our commercial marketplaces in which we act as principal. In line with these changes, cost of goods sold increased as a percentage of revenue to 44.6%, from 41.8%. 33 Table of Contents Profit-sharing distributions. Profit-sharing distributions decreased $16.0 million, or 68.0%, to $7.5 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $23.5 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. As a percentage of revenue, profit-sharing distributions decreased to 3.2% from 7.4%. This is due to decreases in property flow from the DoD in our scrap business and lower commodity prices. Technology and operations expenses. Technology and operations expenses decreased $6.4 million, or 8.4%, to $70.0 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $76.4 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015, due to the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company, and the wind down of the NESA business. As a percentage of revenue, technology and operations expenses increased to 29.4% from 24.0% primarily as a result of the decrease in revenue described above. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $2.9 million, or 9.1%, to $28.6 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $31.4 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015, primarily due to bad debt expense related to the Jacobs Trading Company in fiscal 2015, as well as staff reductions. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 12.0% from 9.9% primarily as a result of the decrease in revenue described above. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $1.8 million, or 5.7%, to $29.6 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $31.4 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 due to the wind down of the NESA refurbishment business in Canada and the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company in fiscal 2015. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses increased to 12.4% from 9.8% primarily as a result of the decrease in revenue described above. Depreciation and amortization expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $2.3 million, or 31.7%, to $4.9 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $7.2 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015, as a result of reclassifying prior year amortization of $1.2 million for specific contract intangibles to this line item, as well as certain software purchases having reached the end of their amortization period, and the sale of the Jacobs Trading Company in September 2015 and its related depreciable assets. Acquisition costs and related fair value adjustments and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets . Acquisition costs and related fair value adjustments and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets decreased $96.2 million, or 100.0% to zero for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $96.2 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015, due to the write-down of impaired goodwill and the remaining unamortized expense related to the Jacobs Trading Company acquisition contract intangible asset due to the early termination of the Wal-Mart contract in December 2014. Interest and other (expense) income, net. Interest and other (expense) income, net increased $0.3 million, to $0.2 million of income for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from an expense of ($0.1) for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. Interest and other (expense) income, net included impacts of foreign currency fluctuations. Benefit for income taxes. Benefit for income taxes decreased $17.8 million, or 88.0%, to $2.4 million for nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $20.2 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015, primarily due to a decrease in losses from FY15 generated from the the write-down of impaired goodwill and long-lived assets in the nine months ended June 30, 2015. Net loss. Net loss decreased $55.0 million, or 90.0%, to $6.2 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $61.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015, primarily as a result of the write-down of impaired goodwill and long-lived assets in the nine months ended June 30, 2015. 34 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary cash needs have been working capital (including capital used for inventory purchases), which we have funded primarily through cash generated from operations. As of June 30, 2016, we had approximately $129.9 million in cash and cash equivalents. We do not expect the termination of the Senior Credit Facility to have a material effect on our liquidity or financial position. We have continued to advance the design and development of our LiquidityOne platform, services and analytical tools to empower our clients to maximize bottom-line return, and transform their supply chain into a high-performing business function. We will continue to incur additional costs throughout the duration of this initiative to implement the new platform and educate our employees and clients about the initiative. As part of this process, we have invested in new business ventures, such as our IronDirect marketplace in the construction vertical. We expect that the IronDirect marketplace may generate future synergies with our other marketplaces when IronDirect customers dispose of the construction equipment purchased from this marketplace. We did not record a provision for deferred U.S. tax expense on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries since we intend to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries outside the U.S. The amount of such undistributed foreign earnings was approximately $11.1 million as of June 30, 2016. As of June 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015, approximately $21.5 million and $23.6 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents was held overseas and not available to fund domestic operations without incurring taxes upon repatriation. We are authorized to repurchase issued and outstanding shares of our common stock under a share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors. Share repurchases may be made through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. The repurchase program may be discontinued or suspended at any time, and will be funded using our available cash. We did not repurchase shares under this program during the nine months ended June 30, 2016. As of June 30, 2016, we may repurchase an additional $10.1 million shares under this program. Most of our sales are recorded subsequent to receipt of payment authorization, utilizing credit cards, wire transfers and PayPal, an Internet based payment system, as methods of payments. As a result, we are not subject to significant collection risk, as goods are generally not shipped before payment is received. 35 Table of Contents Changes in Cash Flows: Nine Months Ended June 30, 2016 Compared to Nine Months Ended June 30, 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities was $38.6 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 and $39.5 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. The $0.9 million decrease in cash provided by operations between periods was primarily attributable to an overall decrease of approximately $18.8 million in net income including non-cash adjustments offset by an increase in cash flows from changes in working capital of approximately $17.9 million. For the nine months ended June 30, 2016, net cash provided by operating activities primarily consisted of $34.0 million related to the recovery of prior year income taxes, netted with estimated taxes for fiscal 2016. This cash benefit resulted from the tax loss on the recent sale of the Jacobs Trading Company. Another significant change over prior year relates to the $42.5 million decrease in inventory during fiscal 2015 resulting from the loss of the Wal-Mart Agreement and decreased property flows from the DoD under the surplus contract. Net cash used in investing activities was $4.6 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 and $5.4 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 consisted primarily of expenditures of $4.6 million for capitalized software, purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $5.4 million for purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements. Net cash used by financing activities was $0.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 and net cash provided by financing activities was $0.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 consisted primarily of proceeds from the exercise of common stock options. Capital Expenditures. Our capital expenditures consist primarily of capitalized software, computers and purchased software, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, and leasehold improvements. The timing and volume of such capital expenditures in the future will be affected by the addition of new customers or expansion of existing customer relationships. We intend to fund those expenditures primarily from operating cash flows. Our capital expenditures for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 were $4.6 million. As of June 30, 2016, we had no outstanding commitments for capital expenditures. Effective March 25, 2016, the Company terminated its $75 million a senior credit facility. Borrowings under the Agreement bore interest at an annual rate equal to the 30 day LIBOR rate plus 1.25% (1.608% at December 31, 2015) due monthly. The Companys borrowing availability under the Facility upon termination was $37.5 million. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Facility at the time of its termination. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the development and deployment of new marketplaces, the introduction of new value added services and the costs to establish additional distribution centers. Although we are currently not a party to any definitive agreement with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased interest expense and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. There is no assurance that such financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any transactions, obligations or relationships that could be considered material off-balance sheet arrangements.