Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include but are not limited to the factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, would, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continues or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There may be other factors of which we are currently unaware or deem immaterial that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this document and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained elsewhere in this document. Overview About us. We manage, value, and sell inventory and equipment for business and government clients by operating a network of ecommerce marketplaces that enable buyers and sellers to transact in an efficient, automated environment offering over 500 product categories. Our marketplaces provide professional buyers access to a global, organized supply of new, surplus, and scrap assets presented with digital images and other relevant product information. Additionally, we enable corporate and government sellers to enhance their financial return on offered assets by providing a liquid marketplace and value-added services that encompass the consultative management, valuation, and sale of surplus assets. Our broad range of services include program management, valuation, asset management, reconciliation, returns process management, refurbishment and recycling, fulfillment, marketing and sales, warehousing and transportation, buyer support, and compliance and risk mitigation, as well as self-service tools for its sellers. We organize the products on our marketplaces into categories across major industry verticals such as consumer electronics, general merchandise, apparel, scientific equipment, aerospace parts and equipment, technology hardware, energy equipment, industrial capital assets, fleet and transportation equipment and specialty equipment. Our network of marketplaces includes: www.liquidation.com, www.govdeals.com, www.networkintl.com, www.secondipity.com, www.go-dove.com, and www.auctiondeals.com. We also operate a global search engine for listing used machinery and equipment for sale at www.machinio.com. We have over 12,000 sellers, including Fortune 1000 and Global 500 organizations as well as federal, state, and local government agencies. We believe our ability to create liquid marketplaces for surplus and salvage assets generates a continuous flow of goods from our corporate and government sellers. This flow of goods in turn attracts an increasing number of professional buyers to our marketplaces. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 , the number of registered buyers increased from 3,209,000 to 3,514,000 , or approximately 9.5% . On July 10, 2018, we acquired 100% of Machinio, a privately-owned company based in Chicago, Illinois, with a second office in Berlin, Germany. Machinio operates a global online platform for listing used equipment for sale in the construction, machine tool, transportation, printing and agriculture sectors. Our revenue. Substantially all of our revenue is earned through the following transaction models. Purchase model. Under our purchase transaction model, we recognize revenue within the Revenue line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations from the resale of inventory that we purchased from sellers. We consider these sellers to be our vendors. We pay our vendors either a fixed amount or a portion of the net or gross 23 proceeds received from our completed sales based on the value we receive from the sale, in some cases, after deducting a required return to us that we have negotiated with the seller. Because we are the primary obligor and take general and physical inventory risks and credit risk under this transaction model, we recognize as revenue the sale price paid by the buyer upon completion of a transaction. The proceeds paid by buyers also include transaction fees, referred to as buyer premiums. Revenue from our purchase transaction model accounted for approximately 66.1% of our total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 . These amounts include revenue earned from the sale of property obtained under the Scrap Contract, which accounted for approximately 7.5% of our total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 . The price we paid the DLA for the property purchased under the Scrap Contract is based on a revenue share model. One of our key operating metrics is gross merchandise volume ("GMV") an operating measure which we define as the total sales value of all merchandise sold by us or our sellers through our marketplaces and other channels during a given period of time. The merchandise sold under our purchase transaction model accounted for approximately 21.9% of our GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2018 . Consignment model fee revenue. Under our consignment transaction model, we enable our sellers to sell goods they own in our marketplaces and we charge them a commission fee based on the gross or net proceeds received from such sales. The revenue from our consignment transaction model is recognized within the Fee revenue line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our commission fee revenue, which we refer to as seller commissions, represents a percentage of the sales price the buyer pays upon completion of a transaction. We vary the percentage amount of the seller commission depending on the various value-added services we provide to the seller to facilitate the transaction. For example, we generally increase the percentage amount of the commission if we take possession, handle, ship, or provide enhanced product information for the merchandise. In most cases, we collect the seller commission by deducting the appropriate amount from the sales proceeds prior to the distribution to the seller after completion of the transaction. In addition to seller commissions, we also collect buyer premiums. Revenue from our consignment model accounted for approximately 29.8% of our total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 . The merchandise sold under our consignment model accounted for approximately 78.1% of our total GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2018 . We also earn non-consignment fee revenue, which is made up of subscription fee and service revenue from the Surplus contract in the prior year. This revenue is included within the Fee revenue line item on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We collect a buyer premium on most of the transactions under both of the transaction models we offer to sellers. Buyer premiums are calculated as a percentage of the sale price of the merchandise sold and are paid to us by the buyer. Buyer premiums are in addition to the price of the merchandise. Industry trends. We believe there are several industry trends positively impacting the growth of our business including: (1) the ability for businesses to conduct ecommerce via the Internet both in the United States and abroad, which continues to mature; (2) the increase in the volume of returned merchandise handled both online and in stores as online and omni-channel retail grow as a percentage of overall retail sales; (3) the increase in government regulations and the need for corporations to have sustainability solutions necessitating verifiable recycling and remarketing of surplus assets; (4) the increase in outsourcing by corporate and government organizations of disposition activities for surplus and end-of-life assets as they focus on reducing costs, improving transparency, compliance and working capital flows, and increasingly prefer service providers with a proven track record, innovative scalable solutions and the ability to make a strategic impact in the reverse supply chain, which we expect to increase our seller base; and (5) innovation in the retail supply chain, which we expect will increase the pace of product obsolescence in the long-term and, therefore, the supply of surplus assets. Our Vendor Agreements Our DoD agreements. Historically, we had two material vendor contracts with the DoD: the Scrap Contract and the Surplus Contract. Scrap Contract. On April 8, 2016, the DLA awarded us the second Scrap Contract. Under the second Scrap Contract, we acquire all non-electronic scrap property from the DLA and pay the DLA a revenue-sharing payment equal to 64.5% of the gross resale proceeds. We bear all of the costs for the sorting, merchandising and sale of the property. The second Scrap Contract has a 36-month base term, commencing in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, with two 12-month extension options exercisable by the DLA. Transactions under this contract follow the purchase transaction model described above. The contract contains a provision permitting the DLA to terminate the contract for convenience upon written notice to us. 24 Resale of scrap property that we purchased under the Scrap Contract accounted for approximately 7.5% and 8.4% of our revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The property sold under the Scrap Contract accounted for approximately 2.6% and 3.3% of our GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. This contract is included within our CAG segment. Surplus Contract. The Surplus Contract was a competitive-bid contract under which we acquired, managed and sold usable DoD surplus personal property turned into the DLA. Surplus property generally consisted of items determined by the DoD to be no longer needed, and not claimed for reuse by any federal agency, such as electronics, industrial equipment, office supplies, scientific and medical equipment, aircraft parts, clothing and textiles. In October 2017, the DLA put out for bid two new term surplus contracts, and in December 2017, the DLA determined that we were not the high bidder for either of the two contracts. As a result, we made our final inventory purchase under the Surplus Contract during December 2017, and as of June 30, 2018, we had wound down all operations under the Surplus Contract. The Surplus Contract accounted for $16.2 million, or 26.5% , of revenue in the three months ended December 31, 2017. The property sold under the Surplus Contract accounted for approximately 8.9% of our GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Transactions under the Surplus Contract followed the purchase transaction model described above. This contract was included within our CAG segment. We recorded approximately $0.5 million of severance and occupancy cost during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as a result of the restructuring and realignment efforts undertaken due to the loss of the Surplus Contract. Our commercial agreements. We have a vendor contract with Amazon.com, Inc. under which we acquire and sell commercial merchandise. The inventory we purchased under this contract represented approximately 40.5% , and 19.4% of cost of goods sold for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This contract is included within the Company's RSCG segment. Key Business Metrics Our management periodically reviews certain key business metrics for operational planning purposes and to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocation of resources and our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. These key business metrics include: GMV. GMV, an operating measure, is the total sales value of all merchandise sold by us or our sellers through our marketplaces and other channels during a given period of time. We review GMV because it provides a measure of the volume of goods being sold in our marketplaces and thus the activity of those marketplaces. GMV also provides a means to evaluate the effectiveness of investments that we have made and continue to make, including in the areas of buyer and seller support, product development, sales and marketing, and operations. See Results of Operations for further information on GMV. Total registered buyers. We grow our buyer base through a combination of marketing and promotional efforts. A person becomes a registered buyer by completing an online registration process on one of our marketplaces. As part of this process, we collect business and personal information, including name, title, company name, business address and contact information, and information on how the person intends to use our marketplaces. Each prospective buyer must also accept our terms and conditions of use. Following the completion of the online registration process, we verify each prospective buyers e-mail address and confirm that the person is not listed on any banned persons list maintained internally or by the U.S. federal government. After the verification process, which is completed generally within 24 hours, the registration is approved and activated, and the prospective buyer is added to our registered buyer list. Total registered buyers, as of a given date, represent the aggregate number of persons or entities who have registered on one of our marketplaces. We use this metric to evaluate how well our marketing and promotional efforts are performing. Total registered buyers exclude duplicate registrations, buyers who are suspended from utilizing our marketplaces and those buyers who have voluntarily removed themselves from our registration database. In addition, if we become aware of registered buyers that are no longer in business, we remove them from our database. As of December 31, 2018, and September 30, 2018, we had 3,514,000 and 3,357,000 registered buyers, respectively. Total auction participants. For each auction we manage, the number of auction participants represents the total number of registered buyers who have bid one or more times in that auction. As a result, a registered buyer who bids, or participates, in more than one auction is counted as an auction participant in each auction in which he or she participates. Thus, total auction participants for a given period is the sum of the auction participants in each auction conducted during that period. We use this metric to allow us to compare our online auction marketplaces to our competitors, including other online auction sites and traditional on-site auctioneers. In addition, we measure total auction participants on a periodic basis to evaluate the activity level of our base of registered buyers and to measure the performance of our marketing and promotional efforts. During 25 the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, 493,000 and 519,000 , respectively, total auction participants participated in auctions on our marketplaces. Largely as a result of the wind-down of the Surplus Contract, there was a decrease in auction participants during fiscal 2018. Completed transactions. Completed transactions represents the number of auctions in a given period from which we have recorded revenue. Similar to GMV, we believe that completed transactions is a key business metric because it provides an additional measurement of the volume of activity flowing through our marketplaces. During the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we completed 145,000 and 122,280 transactions, respectively. Non-GAAP Financial Measures EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure and is equal to net (loss) income plus interest and other expense, net; provision (benefit) for income taxes; and depreciation and amortization. Interest and other expense, net, can include non-operating gains and losses, such as from foreign currency fluctuations. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA differs from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition costs such as transaction expenses and changes in earn out estimates, business realignment expense, deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustments, and goodwill and long-lived asset impairment. We believe EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are useful to an investor in evaluating our performance for the following reasons: Depreciation and amortization expense primarily relates to property and equipment, and the amortization of intangible assets. These expenses are non-cash charges that have fluctuated significantly in the past. As a result, we believe that adding back these non-cash charges to net income is useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. As a result of varying federal and state income tax rates, we believe that presenting a financial measure that adjusts net (loss) income for provision (benefit) for income taxes is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance for stock-based compensation requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to be recognized in the income statement based on their estimated fair values. We believe adjusting net (loss) income for this stock-based compensation expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance related to business combinations requires the recognition of contingent consideration so that it is recognized at the time of acquisition rather than when it is probable and disallows the capitalization of transaction costs. We believe adjusting net (loss) income for these acquisition related expenses is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. We believe adjusting net income for business realignment expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year, as these expenses are outside our ordinary course of business. We believe isolating non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our performance. We believe EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are important indicators of our operational strength and the performance of our business because they provide a link between profitability and operating cash flow. We also believe that analysts and investors use EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as supplemental measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of companies in our industry. Our management uses EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA: as measurements of operating performance because they assist us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as they remove the impact of items not directly resulting from our core operations; for planning purposes, including the preparation of our internal annual operating budget; to allocate resources to enhance the financial performance of our business; to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies; and to evaluate our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as calculated by us are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In addition, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA: (a) do not represent net (loss) income or cash flows from 26 operating activities as defined by GAAP; (b) are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as alternatives to net (loss) income, income from operations, cash provided by operating activities or our other financial information as determined under GAAP. We prepare Adjusted EBITDA by adjusting EBITDA to eliminate the impact of items that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. You are encouraged to evaluate these adjustments and the reasons we consider them appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, Adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an implication that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. The table below reconciles net loss to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the periods presented. Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) (Unaudited) Net loss $ (5,022 ) $ (1,212 ) Interest and other income, net** (233 ) (425 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 266 (4,815 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,204 1,211 EBITDA (3,785 ) (5,241 ) Stock compensation expense 1,513 930 Acquisition costs and impairment of long-lived assets* 82 Business realignment expenses* 34 1,349 Deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustment 432 Adjusted EBITDA $ (1,724 ) $ (2,962 ) * Acquisition costs and impairment of long-lived assets and business realignment expenses, which are excluded from Adjusted EBITDA, are included in Other operating expenses on the Statements of Operations. See Note 11 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on business realignment expenses. **Interest and other income, net excludes non-services pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. A critical accounting estimate is one which is both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We continuously evaluate our critical accounting estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018, Note 2- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements. The same accounting policies are used in preparing our interim consolidated financial statements. As a result of adopting ASC 606, there were significant changes to our revenue recognition policy from the policy disclosed in the Form 10-K. See Note 1 to the unaudited consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements," of this Form 10-Q for a description of the revisions to our revenue recognition policy. Components of Revenue and Expenses Revenue. We generate a large portion of our revenue from the proceeds of sales of merchandise held in inventory. We also generate fee revenue from commissions on sales in our marketplaces of merchandise that is owned by others. 27 Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold includes the costs of purchasing and transporting property for auction, credit card transaction fees and shipping and handling costs. Seller distributions. Under the current Scrap Contract, we acquire scrap property from the DLA for resale and pay the DLA a revenue-sharing payment equal to 64.5% of the gross resale proceeds. We bear all of the costs for the sorting, merchandising and sale of the property. Technology and operations. Technology expenses consist primarily of the cost of technical staff who develop, deploy, and maintain our marketplaces and corporate infrastructure. These personnel also develop and upgrade the software systems that support our operations, such as sales processing. Technology expenses also includes certain costs associated with our LiquidityOne platform. We are implementing a new ecommerce marketplace and back-office solution as part of our LiquidityOne Transformation initiative which is designed to deliver an improved online marketplace platform and related software tools to enhance our customer experience, operations and ability to scale to a much larger business. Because our marketplaces and support systems require frequent upgrades and enhancements to maintain viability, we have determined that the useful life for certain internally developed software is less than one year. As a result, we expense those costs as incurred. However, where we determine that the useful life of the internally developed software will be greater than one year, we capitalize development costs in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other . As such, we are capitalizing certain development costs associated with our LiquidityOne platform. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed development of our new Return to Vendor module of the LiquidityOne platform and began amortizing the associated capitalized costs during that quarter. Operations expenses consist primarily of operating costs, including buyer relations, shipping logistics and distribution center operating costs. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses include the cost of our sales and marketing personnel as well as the cost of marketing and promotional activities. These activities include online marketing campaigns such as paid search advertising. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses include all corporate and administrative functions that support our operations and provide an infrastructure to facilitate our future growth. Components of these expenses include executive management and staff salaries, bonuses and related taxes and employee benefits; travel; headquarters rent and related occupancy costs; and legal and accounting fees. The salaries, bonus and employee benefits costs included as general and administrative expenses are generally more fixed in nature than our operating expenses and do not vary directly with the volume of merchandise sold through our marketplaces. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expenses consist primarily of the depreciation and amortization of amounts recorded in connection with the purchase of furniture, fixtures and equipment, amortization of internally developed software, and amortization of intangible assets from our acquisitions. Other operating expenses (income). Other operating expenses (income) includes the change in fair value of financial instruments and contingent consideration, as well as business realignment expenses, including those associated with restructuring initiatives and the exit of certain business operations. Interest and other (income) expense, net. Interest and other (income) expense, net, consists of interest income on the note receivable related to the sale of the Jacobs Trading business in 2015, interest income on short-term investments, and impacts of foreign currency fluctuations. Income taxes. For interim income tax reporting, we estimate our annual effective tax rate and apply this effective tax rate to our year to date pre-tax (loss) income. Our effective income tax rate before discrete items was -5.6% for the three months ended December 31, 2018. The effective tax rate differed from the statutory federal rate of 21% primarily as a result of the valuation allowance charge on current year losses and the impact of foreign, state, and local income taxes and permanent tax adjustments. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our operating results (dollars in thousands): 28 Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 35,735 $ 40,280 $ (4,545 ) (11.3 )% Fee revenue 18,318 20,863 (2,545 ) (12.2 ) Total revenue 54,053 61,143 (7,090 ) (11.6 ) Costs and expenses from operations: Cost of goods sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 24,956 27,631 (2,675 ) (9.7 ) Seller distributions 2,624 3,312 (688 ) (20.8 ) Technology and operations 12,524 18,100 (5,576 ) (30.8 ) Sales and marketing 8,981 8,310 671 8.1 General and administrative 8,634 7,662 972 12.7 Depreciation and amortization 1,204 1,211 (7 ) (0.6 ) Other operating expenses 205 1,459 (1,254 ) (85.9 ) Total costs and expenses 59,128 67,685 (8,557 ) (12.6 ) Loss from operations (5,075 ) (6,542 ) 1,467 22.4 Interest and other income, net (319 ) (515 ) 196 38.1 Loss before provision (benefit) for income taxes (4,756 ) (6,027 ) 1,271 21.1 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 266 (4,815 ) 5,081 105.5 Net loss $ (5,022 ) $ (1,212 ) $ (3,810 ) (314.4 )% 29 The following table presents segment GMV, revenue, gross profit which is calculated as total revenue less cost of goods sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) and seller distributions, and gross profit margin for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 2017 GovDeals: GMV $ 76,309 $ 71,119 Total revenue 7,658 7,040 Gross profit 7,061 6,543 Gross profit margin 92.2 % 92.9 % CAG: GMV 46,360 53,947 Total revenue 15,482 32,063 Gross profit 8,883 17,603 Gross profit margin 57.4 % 54.9 % RSCG: GMV 35,444 28,736 Total revenue 29,478 20,485 Gross profit 9,549 6,728 Gross profit margin 32.4 % 32.8 % Machinio: GMV Total revenue 991 Gross profit 878 Gross profit margin 88.6 % Corporate & Other: GMV 435 1,552 Total revenue 444 1,555 Gross profit 102 (675 ) Gross profit margin 23.0 % (43.4 )% Consolidated: GMV 158,548 155,354 Total revenue 54,053 61,143 Gross profit 26,473 30,199 Gross profit margin 49.0 % 49.4 % Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 Segment Results GovDeals. Revenue from our GovDeals segment increased 8.8% , or $0.6 million , due to additional sales volume from existing sellers and an increase in the number of new sellers. GMV from this segment increased 7.3% , or $5.2 million , due to additional sales volume from existing sellers and an increase in the number of new sellers. Gross profit within this segment increased 7.9% , or $0.5 million , to $7.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from $6.5 million for the three 30 months ended December 31, 2017, due to the new business. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 92.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from 92.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Gross profit is calculated as total revenue less cost of goods sold and seller distributions. CAG. Revenue from our CAG segment decreased 51.7% , or $16.6 million . Approximately $16.2 million of this change was due to the wind-down of the Surplus contract. Additionally, the Scrap Contract experienced a lower volume of goods sold, as well as lower commodity prices, partially offset by a change in mix to higher value commodities. The decrease in revenue due to Surplus and Scrap contracts was partially offset by a slight increase in overall sales volume within our CAG Commercial business. GMV from our CAG segment decreased 14.1% , or $7.6 million . The wind-down of the Surplus contract resulted in a decrease of approximately $13.9 million. Also, contributing to the decrease is the lower volume of goods sold, as well as a change to lower value commodities under the Scrap contract, partially offset by a change in mix to higher value commodities resulting in a net decrease of approximately $1.0 million. These overall reductions were partially offset by an increase in GMV of $7.3 million from our CAG Commercial business. Gross profit within the CAG segment decreased 49.5% , or $8.7 million , to $8.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from $17.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017. This decrease can primarily be attributed to the wind-down of the Surplus Contract and lower sales volumes described above. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit increased to 57.4% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 from 54.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2017. RSCG. Revenue from our RSCG segment increased 43.9% , or $9.0 million , due to increases in revenue from both the purchase and consignment transaction models. GMV from our RSCG segment increased 23.3% , or $6.7 million , due to approximately $7.8 million increases in GMV in purchase transaction model, partially offset by approximately $1.1 million decrease in GMV in consignment transaction models. Gross profit within the RSCG segment increased 41.9% , or $2.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, due to the increases in revenue described above. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit decreased to 32.4% , from 32.8% . Machinio. Machinio was acquired on July 10, 2018. Machinio earns revenue from subscription fees charged to customers for promotional placements on Machinio's search engine. Corporate & Other. The decrease in revenue of $1.1 million is attributable to a decrease in revenue from IronDirect. GMV from our Corporate & Other segment decreased 72.0% , or $1.1 million , due to lower heavy equipment sales. Gross profit within Corporate & Other increased $0.8 million , attributable to lower cost of goods sold and a $0.6 million inventory reserve recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which did not occur in the quarter ended December 31, 2018. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, sales were primarily drop ship parts resulting in higher margins and during the three months ended December 31, 2017 sales included equipment and inventory. Consolidated Results Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold decreased $2.6 million , or 9.7% , to $25.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from $27.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Cost of goods sold decreased approximately $8.8 million due to the wind-down of the Surplus Contract. In addition, cost of goods sold decreased $1.9 million in our IronDirect business due to a lower volume of heavy equipment sales, partially offset by a $1.6 million increase in our CAG Commercial business, and a $6.1 million increase in our RSCG segment, primarily due to increased sales. Seller distributions. Seller distributions decreased $0.7 million , or 20.8% , to $2.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from $3.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, due to lower sales under our Scrap Contract during the three months ended December 31, 2018. Technology and operations expenses. Technology and operations expenses decreased $5.6 million , or 30.8% , to $12.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from $18.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, due to the loss of the Surplus Contract of approximately $3.5 million and a decrease of approximately $1.5 million due to a reduction in technology labor costs, external contractors' fees and travel costs as a result of completing a certain phase of development of the new LiquidityOne platform as well as lower license fees and other information technology service costs. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $0.7 million , or 8.1% , to $9.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from $8.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, due primarily to a $0.6 million increase within our Machinio segment, which was acquired in July 2018, from a full quarter of sales and marketing expense that did not occur in the prior year quarter, an increase in marketing labor in our Corporate & Other segment of 31 approximately $0.5 million offset by approximately a $0.6 million decrease within our CAG segment from a reduction in sales labor. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased $0.9 million , or 12.7% , to $8.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from $7.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017. This is due to an increase in overall staff cost of approximately $0.5 million and corporate overhead expense of $0.4 million. The increase in overall staff cost is attributable to $0.2 million staff cost in our Machinio segment, that did not occur in the prior quarter. In addition staff cost increased $0.5 million in our Corporate & Other and RSCG segments, partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in our CAG and GovDeals segments. Other operating expenses. Other operating expenses reflected an expense of approximately $0.2 million in the three months ended December 31, 2018, which consisted of a change in the fair value of our earn-out liability of $0.1 million and approximately $0.1 million primarily due to acquisition and restructuring costs. In the three months ended December 31, 2017, Other operating expense of $1.5 million represented approximately $1.3 million of restructuring cost (for further information, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report), and a $0.1 million loss on the value of a right we held from our participation in certain principal transactions in the CAG segment. Interest and other income, net. Interest and other income, net, reflected income of approximately $0.3 million in the three months ended December 31, 2018, which consisted of approximately $0.4 million of interest income mainly from our short-term investments, and $0.1 million of net periodic pension benefit other than the service cost component, partially offset by approximately $0.2 million of other miscellaneous expenses. In the three months ended December 31, 2017, Interest and other income, net represented an income of $0.5 million , which consisted of approximately $0.1 million of interest income, $0.1 million of net periodic pension benefit other than the service cost component, and $0.3 million of other miscellaneous income. Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Provision (benefit) for income taxes increased $5.1 million, to a provision of $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, from a benefit of $4.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, due to benefits resulting from the new Tax Cut and Jobs Act enacted in fiscal year 2018 and the impact of foreign, state, and local taxes and permanent tax adjustments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary cash needs have been working capital (including capital used for inventory purchases), which we have funded through cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $38.5 million in cash as well as $30.0 million in short-term investments. We continue to advance the design and development of our LiquidityOne platform, services and analytical tools. We will continue to incur additional costs throughout the duration of this initiative to implement the new platform and educate our employees and our buyers and sellers about the initiative. We have also invested in new business ventures, such as Machinio in July 2018, which operates a global online platform for listing used equipment for sale in the construction, machine tool, transportation, printing and agriculture sectors. The consideration paid to the sellers was approximately $16.7 million in net cash, equity consideration of approximately $2.0 million, and contingent consideration payable in 2020 in an amount up to $5.0 million. We did not record a provision for deferred U.S. tax expense on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries because we intend to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries outside the United States. The amount of such undistributed foreign earnings was approximately $8.3 million as of December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, approximately $12.6 million and $14.4 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents was held overseas. We are authorized to repurchase issued and outstanding shares of our common stock under a share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors. Share repurchases may be made through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. The repurchase program may be discontinued or suspended at any time and will be funded using our available cash. We did not repurchase shares under this program during the three months ended December 31, 2018 or 2017. As of December 31, 2018, we may repurchase an additional $10.1 million in shares under this program. 32 Most of our sales are recorded subsequent to receipt of payment authorization, utilizing credit cards, wire transfers and PayPal, an Internet based payment system, as methods of payments. As a result, we are not subject to significant collection risk, as goods are generally not shipped before payment is received. Changes in Cash Flows: Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 Net cash used in operating activities was $8.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $3.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The $11.6 million increase in cash used in operations between periods was attributable to changes in working capital primarily from change in accounts receivable, settlement of accounts payable, payables to sellers and purchase of inventory. Net cash used in investing activities was $11.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and $1.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2018 consisted of the purchase of certificates of deposit in the amount of $10 million, as well as expenditures for capitalized software, purchases of equipment, and leasehold improvements. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2017 consisted primarily of expenditures for capitalized software, purchases of equipment, and leasehold improvements. Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.01 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to no cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Net cash provided by financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds from the exercise of common stock options. Capital Expenditures. Our capital expenditures consist primarily of capitalized software, computers and purchased software, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, and leasehold improvements. Capitalized software includes costs associated with our LiquidityOne platform. The timing and volume of capital expenditures in the future will be affected by the addition of new customers or expansion of existing customer relationships, as well as our development of our LiquidityOne platform. We intend to fund those expenditures primarily from operating cash flows. Our capital expenditures for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $1.6 million . As of December 31, 2018, we had no outstanding commitments for capital expenditures. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the development and deployment of new marketplaces, the introduction of new value-added services and the costs to establish additional distribution centers. Although we are currently not a party to any definitive agreement with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased interest expense and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. There is no assurance that such financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements that could be considered material off-balance sheet arrangements.