Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of F inancial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include but are not limited to the factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, would, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continues or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There may be other factors of which we are currently unaware or deem immaterial that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this document and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained elsewhere in this document. Overview About us . Liquidity Services is a leading global commerce company providing trusted marketplace platforms that power the circular economy. We create a better future for organizations, individuals, and the planet by capturing and unleashing the intrinsic value of surplus. We connect millions of buyers and thousands of sellers through our leading auction marketplaces, search engines, asset management software, and related services. Our comprehensive solutions enable the transparent, efficient, sustainable recovery of value from excess items owned by business and government sellers. Our business delivers value to shareholders by unleashing the intrinsic value of surplus through our marketplace platforms. These platforms ignite and enable a self-reinforcing cycle of value creation where buyers and sellers continue to attract one another in ever-increasing numbers. The result is a continuous flow of goods that becomes increasingly valuable as more participants join the platform, thereby creating positive network effects that benefit sellers, buyers, and shareholders. Results from our operations are organized into four reportable segments: GovDeals, Retail Supply Chain Group (RSCG), Capital Assets Group (CAG), and Machinio. See Note 14 - Segment Information to the condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our segments. Macroeconomic Conditions Supply chain challenges and shifting consumer sentiment . Constraints in the production of new vehicles, particularly as it relates to new fleet sales, are currently limiting the supply of used vehicles available for sale on our marketplaces, while used car market price indices are simultaneously experiencing heightened volatility. In addition, general consumer behavior appears to be more cautious, focused more on essential goods with limited discretionary high-value purchases. These conditions are slowing our GMV, Revenues, Segment direct profit and Segment direct profit margins, and may continue to do so while these conditions persist, or if similar challenges emerge in other key asset categories. Effects of Inflation . Rising inflation in both the U.S. and internationally has weighed on the global economy, increasing prices for energy, shipping, and labor, among other areas of the macroeconomic environment. These events have caused a rise in borrowing costs as well, partly driven by actions taken by central banks to curb rising inflation. Currently, the Company is unable to predict the likelihood, magnitude and timing of inflationary risk to our business, if any. As a marketplace operator, the GMV, revenues and costs of revenues that result from our primarily auction-based sales may be influenced by macroeconomic factors, including but not limited to inflation, whose impacts may vary across each of our individual asset classes. Russia-Ukraine Conflict . The global financial markets have experienced volatility subsequent to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia in February 2022, a conflict which remains ongoing. In response to the invasion, numerous countries, including the United States, imposed significant new sanctions and export controls against Russia, Russian banks and certain Russian individuals. The conflict has further heightened global supply chain disruptions and impacted the international trade and energy markets. For the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, the Company's total revenues directly associated with Russia and Ukraine were not material to our consolidated financial results. We will continue monitoring the events in Ukraine and any potential future impacts on our business. 19 COVID-19 Pandemic . The Company has been closely monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2020, the Company experienced the largest impacts on its operations thus far stemming from the initial actions taken by governments and the private sector to limit the spread of COVID-19. The restrictions on economic activity were caused, in part, by business closures, limitations on the operations of business activity and significant prioritization of essential business functions. COVID-19 and its variants continue to impact the global economy, supply chains, and the ability to conduct commerce due to ongoing travel restrictions in various countries, and episodic lockdowns within regions of China. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic in combination with various macroeconomic factors has impacted the supply chain of new vehicles, and construction and heavy equipment production, which in turn negatively affected the supply of used vehicles and construction and heavy equipment being sold in North America. At this time, the likelihood, magnitude and timing of business developments across our reportable segments are difficult to predict given the current economic uncertainty, unknown duration and overall impact of the global pandemic. As a result, prior trends in the Company's results of operations may not be applicable throughout the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company has actively monitored its liquidity position and working capital needs. The Company believes that its liquidity position and working capital are more than sufficient to meet its projected needs. Industry Trends We believe there are several industry trends positively impacting the long-term growth of our business including: the increase in volume of returned merchandise handled both online and in stores as online and omni-channel retail grow as a percentage of overall retail sales; the increase in government regulations and the need for corporations to have sustainability solutions with verifiable recycling and remarketing of surplus assets; the increase in outsourcing surplus disposition and end-of-life assets by corporations and government entities as they focus on reducing costs, improving transparency, compliance and working capital, and increasingly prefer service providers with proven track records, innovative scalable solutions and the ability to make a strategic impact in the reverse supply chain; an increase in buyer demand for surplus merchandise as consumers trade down by purchasing less expensive goods and seek greater value from their purchases, which could impact our long term growth; the increase in demand from sellers and buyers to transact in a low touch, online solution as compared to live, in-person auctions or public sale events; and in the long-term we expect innovation in the retail supply chain will increase the pace of product obsolescence and, therefore, increase the supply of surplus assets. Our Marketplace Transactions We believe our marketplaces benefit over time from greater scale and adoption by our constituents creating a continuous flow of goods benefiting our buyers and sellers. As of December 31, 2022, we had 5.0 million registered buyers in our marketplaces. We had access to millions of additional end-users through a range of external consumer marketplaces. Aggregating this level of buyer demand and market data enables us to generate a continuous flow of goods from corporate and government sellers, which in turn attracts an increasing number of buyers. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, the approximate number of registered buyers increased from 4,713,000 to 4,958,000, or 5%. As buyers continue to discover and use our e-commerce marketplaces as an effective method to source assets, we believe our solutions become an increasingly attractive sales channel for corporate and government agency sellers. We believe this self-reinforcing cycle results in greater transaction volume and enhances the value of our marketplaces. Revenues Substantially all of our revenue is earned through the following transaction models: Purchase model. Under our purchase transaction model, we recognize revenue within the Purchase revenues line item on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations from the resale of inventory that we purchased from sellers. We consider these sellers to be our vendors. We pay our sellers either a fixed amount or a portion of the net or gross proceeds received from our completed sales based on the value we receive from the sale, in some cases, after deducting a required return to us that we have negotiated with the seller. Because we are the principal in purchase transaction model sales, we recognize as revenue the sale price paid by the buyer upon completion of a transaction. The proceeds paid by buyers also include transaction fees, referred to as buyer premiums. Revenue from our purchase transaction model accounted for 53.4% and 54.3% of our Total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively, and 14.3% and 14.5% of our Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. These amounts included sales of commercial merchandise sourced from multiple vendor contracts with Amazon.com, Inc. by our RSCG segment. The commercial merchandise we purchased under these contracts represented 57.3% and 60.5% of Cost of goods sold for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 20 Consignment model. Under our consignment transaction model, we enable our sellers to sell goods they own in our marketplaces, and we charge them a commission fee based on the gross or net proceeds received from such sales. The revenue from our consignment transaction model is recognized upon auction close or upon collection of auction proceeds, depending upon the settlement service level selected by the seller. Revenue under the consignment model is recorded within the Consignment and other fee revenues line item on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Because we are the agent in consignment model sales, our commission fee revenue, which we refer to as seller commissions, represents a percentage of the sales price the buyer pays upon completion of a transaction. We vary the percentage amount of the seller commission depending on the various value-added services we provide to the seller to facilitate the transaction. For example, we generally increase the percentage amount of the commission if we take possession, handle, ship, or provide enhanced product information for the merchandise. In most cases we collect the seller commission by deducting the appropriate amount from the sales proceeds prior to the distribution to the seller after completion of the transaction. In addition to seller commissions, we also collect buyer premiums. Revenue from our consignment transaction model accounted for 38.9% and 38.4% of our Total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively, and 85.7% and 85.5% of our GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Other fee revenues . We also earn non-consignment fee revenue from Machinio's subscription services, as well as other services including asset valuation. Non-consignment fee revenue is recorded within the Consignment and other fee revenues line item on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Other fee revenues accounted for 7.7% and 7.3% of our Total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Our Vendor Agreements Commercial agreements. We have multiple vendor contracts with Amazon.com, Inc. under which we acquire and sell commercial merchandise. While purchase model transactions account for less than 20% of our total GMV, the cost of inventory for purchase model transactions is the most significant component of our consolidated Costs of goods sold. The property we purchased under these contracts represented 57.3% and 60.5% Cost of goods sold for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. This contract is included within our RSCG segment. Our agreements with our other sellers are generally terminable at will by either party. Key Business Metrics Our management periodically reviews certain key business metrics for operational planning purposes and to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocation of resources, and our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. These key business metrics include: Gross merchandise volume (GMV) . GMV is the total sales value of all merchandise sold by us or our sellers through our marketplaces or by us through other channels during a given period of time. We review GMV because it provides a measure of the volume of goods being sold in our marketplaces and thus the activity of those marketplaces. GMV also provides a means to evaluate the effectiveness of investments that we have made and continue to make, including in the areas of buyer and seller support, value-added services, product development, sales and marketing, and operations. Our GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2022, was $270.8 million. Total registered buyers . We grow our buyer base through a combination of marketing and promotional efforts. A person becomes a registered buyer by completing an online registration process on one of our marketplaces. As part of this process, we collect business and personal information, including name, title, company name, business address and contact information, and information on how the person intends to use our marketplaces. Each prospective buyer must also accept our terms and conditions of use. Following the completion of the online registration process, we verify each prospective buyers e-mail address and confirm that the person is not listed on any banned persons list maintained internally or by the U.S. federal government. After the verification process, which is completed generally within 24 hours, the registration is approved and activated, and the prospective buyer is added to our registered buyer list. Total registered buyers, as of a given date, represent the aggregate number of persons or entities who have registered on one of our marketplaces. We use this metric to evaluate how well our marketing and promotional efforts are performing. Total registered buyers exclude duplicate registrations, buyers who are suspended from utilizing our marketplaces and buyers who have voluntarily removed themselves from our registration database. In addition, if we become aware of registered buyers that are no longer in business, we remove them from our database. As of December 31, 2022, and 2021, we had 5.0 million and 4.7 million, registered buyers, respectively. None of our buyers represented more than 10% of our revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2022. Total auction participants. For each auction we manage, the number of auction participants represents the total number of registered buyers who have bid one or more times in that auction. As a result, a registered buyer who bids, or participates, in more than one auction is counted as an auction participant in each auction in which he or she participates. Thus, total auction participants for a given period is the sum of the auction participants in each auction conducted during that period. We use this metric to allow us to compare our online auction marketplaces to our competitors, including other online auction sites and traditional on-site auctioneers. In addition, we measure total auction participants on a periodic basis to evaluate the activity level of our base of registered buyers and to measure the performance of our marketing and promotional efforts. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, 744,000 and 642,000 participants participated in auctions on our marketplaces, respectively. Completed transactions. Completed transactions represents the number of auctions in a given period from which we have recorded revenue. Similar to GMV, we believe that completed transactions is a key business metric because it provides an additional measurement of the volume of activity flowing through our marketplaces. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, we completed 214,000 and 211,000 transactions, respectively. 21 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company's critical accounting policies and estimates are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2022, and in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements. The following discussion is a supplement to the disclosures referenced in connection with accounting estimates made in preparing the purchase accounting for the Bid4Assets acquisition completed during the year ended September 30, 2022. Earn-out liability . Following the acquisition of Bid4Assets during the year ended September 30, 2022, shareholders of Bid4Assets were eligible to receive up to $37.5 million in cash, payable based on Bid4Assets' achievement of trailing twelve-month EBITDA targets measured at the end of each calendar quarter until the quarter ended December 31, 2022. The earn-out consideration was preliminarily fair valued at approximately $28.0 million as of the acquisition date on November 1, 2021. As of December 31, 2022, $3.5 million in earn out payments have been made, and the remaining earn-out fair value is $0 based upon actual performance through the final earn-out measurement period ending December 31, 2022. During the year ended September 30, 2022, the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy included estimated results of operations over the earn-out period, a high level of volatility of operating results given the nature of the business model and its economic environment create a wider range of potential outcomes over the earn-out period, and the discount rate. Goodwill. Goodwill represents the costs in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired through acquisitions by the Company. Pursuant to our purchase price allocation, goodwill arising from the Bid4Assets acquisition was determined to be $30.1 million. As discussed in Note 11 Fair Value Measurement , the fair value of the Bid4Assets earn-out liability declined by $24.5 million during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, there was determined to be no remaining earn-out liability. The decline in earn-out liability since the acquisition date was due to timing changes, which were not known nor knowable as of the acquisition date, impacting the level of auction events and transactions that were expected to occur during the earn-out period ending December 31, 2022. These timing changes have not reflected substantive changes to the long-term outlook for real estate sales within the GovDeals segment and were not considered a triggering event for testing goodwill or long-lived assets for impairment as of December 31, 2022. The Company will continue to monitor for changes that could impact the recoverability of its goodwill. Components of Revenue and Expenses Revenue. Refer to the discussion in the Our revenue section above, and to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of the Company's related accounting policies. Cost of goods sold. Refer to the discussion in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of the Company's Costs of goods sold and related accounting policies. Technology and operations. Technology expenses primarily consist of the cost of technical staff (including stock compensation), third party services, licenses, and infrastructure, all as required to develop, configure, deploy, maintain, and secure our marketplace platforms, business operational systems, and facilities. Technology expenses are net of the required capitalization of costs associated with enhancing our marketplace platforms and other software development activities. Depreciation and amortization of capitalized software development costs, purchased software, acquired developed software intangible assets, and computer hardware are included within Depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Technology expenses are presented separately from Costs of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as these expenses provide for the general availability of our marketplace platforms and other business operational systems and are not attributable to specific revenue generating transaction activity occurring on our marketplaces. Because our marketplaces and support systems require frequent upgrades and enhancements to maintain viability, we have determined that the useful life for certain internally developed software is less than one year. As a result, we expense those costs as incurred. However, where we determine that the useful life of the internally developed software will be greater than one year, we capitalize development costs in accordance with ASC 350-40, Internal-use software . As such, we are capitalizing certain development costs associated with our e-commerce platform, as well as other software development activities. Operations expenses consist primarily of costs to operate our distribution centers, including shipping logistics, inventory management, refurbishment, and administrative functions; costs to enhance our online auctions listings and provide customer support; and costs associated with field support and preparation and transfer of goods from sellers to buyers. Operations expenses include both internal and external labor costs, as well as other third-party charges. These costs are expensed as incurred. Sales and marketing . Sales and marketing expenses include the cost of our sales and marketing personnel as well as the cost of marketing and promotional activities, including buyer and seller acquisition, as well as general brand marketing. These activities include online marketing campaigns such as paid search advertising, as well as offline marketing efforts, trade shows, and marketing analytics. General and administrative . General and administrative expenses include all corporate and administrative functions that support our operations and provide an infrastructure to facilitate our future growth. These expenses are generally more fixed in nature than our other operating expenses and do not significantly vary in response to the volume of merchandise sold through our marketplaces. Depreciation and amortization . Depreciation and amortization consist of depreciation of property and equipment, amortization of internally developed software, and amortization of intangible assets. 22 Fair value adjustment of acquisition earn-outs . Fair value adjustment of acquisition earn-outs consists of the change in fair value of earn-out consideration following a business combination. Other operating expenses (income) . Other operating expenses, net includes impairment of long-lived and other assets, impacts of lease terminations, as well as business realignment expenses, including those associated with restructuring initiatives and the exit of certain business operations. Interest and other income, net . Interest and other income, net consists of interest income on interest bearing checking accounts, money market funds, interest and unused commitment fees in connection with the Company's Credit Agreement, the components of net periodic pension (benefit) other than the service component, and impacts of foreign currency fluctuations. Income taxes. For interim income tax reporting, we estimate our annual effective tax rate and apply this effective tax rate to our year-to-date pre-tax income (loss). Our effective income tax rate after discrete items was 22.5% for the three months ended December 31, 2022. The effective tax rate differed from the statutory federal rate of 21% primarily as a result of the impact of foreign, state, and local income taxes and permanent tax adjustments. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our operating results: Three Months Ended December 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % Purchase revenues $ 38,634 $ 36,217 $ 2,417 6.7 % Consignment and other fee revenues 33,648 30,490 3,158 10.4 % Total revenue 72,282 66,707 5,575 8.4 % Costs and expenses from operations: Cost of goods sold (excludes depreciation and amortization) 31,773 27,762 4,011 14.4 % Technology and operations 14,704 13,918 786 5.6 % Sales and marketing 10,790 10,044 746 7.4 % General and administrative 7,385 8,230 (845 ) (10.3 )% Depreciation and amortization 2,764 2,302 462 20.1 % Other operating expenses (income), net 139 (32 ) 171 NM Total costs and expenses 67,555 62,224 5,331 8.6 % Income from operations 4,727 4,483 244 5.4 % Interest and other income, net (389 ) (131 ) (258 ) (196.7 )% Income before provision for income taxes 5,116 4,614 502 10.9 % Provision for income taxes 1,149 1,012 137 13.5 % Net income $ 3,967 $ 3,602 $ 365 10.1 % NM = not meaningful The following table presents reportable segment GMV, revenue, segment direct profit (previously referred to as segment gross profit which continues to be calculated as total revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization)), and segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, (dollars in thousands) 2022 2021 GovDeals: GMV $ 161,122 $ 156,935 Total revenue $ 13,607 $ 13,984 Segment direct profit $ 12,892 $ 13,295 Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue 94.7 % 95.1 % RSCG: GMV $ 64,897 $ 53,369 Total revenue $ 46,015 $ 38,684 Segment direct profit $ 16,011 $ 14,257 Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue 34.8 % 36.9 % CAG: GMV $ 44,756 $ 49,862 Total revenue $ 9,393 $ 11,207 Segment direct profit $ 8,502 $ 8,719 Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue 90.5 % 77.8 % Machinio: GMV Total revenue $ 3,267 $ 2,832 Segment direct profit $ 3,105 $ 2,674 Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue 95.0 % 94.4 % Consolidated: GMV $ 270,775 $ 260,166 Total revenue $ 72,282 $ 66,707 23 Three Months Ended December 31, 2022, Compared to the Three Months Ended December 31, 2021 Segment Results GovDeal s. Total revenues from our GovDeals reportable segment decreased 2.7%, or $0.4 million, as macroeconomic challenges have slowed the supply of used vehicles. While GMV increased 2.7%, or $4.2 million, which also reflects an increase in market share and expansion of our real estate category, the used vehicles headwinds increased the relative mix of real estate sales, which are generally conducted at a lower take-rate (i.e., revenue as a percentage of GMV) than our traditional GovDeals asset categories, and caused revenue as a percentage of GMV to decrease to 8.4% from 8.9% last year. As a result of the decrease in revenues, segment direct profit decreased 3.0%, or $0.4 million. Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue remained relatively consistent between the periods. RSCG. Revenue from our RSCG reportable segment increased $7.3 million, or 18.9%, due to an $11.5 million, or 21.6%, rise in GMV through continued diversification in its client programs, primarily under the consignment model, as well as expanded buyer channels and distribution networks. Segment direct profit increased by $1.8 million, or 12.3%, while segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue declined from 36.8% to 34.8%, as changes in consumer sentiment have affected our product mix, which has a higher proportion of lower value products than the prior year. CAG. Revenue from the CAG reportable segment decreased by $1.8 million, or 16.2%, due to a $5.1 million, or 10.2%, decrease in GMV primarily due to project timing and the availability of international spot purchase transactions. As a result of the decrease in revenues, segment direct profit decreased $0.2 million, or 2.5%. Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue increased 12.7% due to favorable margins for international transactions as compared to the prior year. Challenged global supply chains are experiencing heightened disruptions from the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its impacts on international trade and energy markets, COVID-19 and other disruptions, which could limit the volume of assets made available for sale in any period. Machinio. Revenue from our Machinio reportable segment increased 15.3%, or $0.4 million, due to continued increases in subscriptions. As a result of the increase in revenues, segment direct profit increased 16.0%, or $0.4 million. Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue remained relatively consistent between the periods. Consolidated Results Total revenues - Total consolidated revenue increased $5.6 million, or 8.4%. Refer to the discussion of Segment Results above for discussion of the increase in revenue. Cost of goods sold (excludes depreciation and amortization). Cost of goods sold increased $4.0 million, or 14.4%, which changed at a higher rate than Total revenues primarily due to an increase in purchase transactions at the RSCG segment. Technology and operations expenses. Technology and operations expenses increased $0.8 million, or 5.6%, from the impact of the growth in our distribution network facilities, market share expansion, and client diversification efforts that occurred throughout the past year, as well as other inflationary cost increases. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $0.7 million, or 7.4%, from the impact of our market share expansion and client diversification efforts that occurred throughout the past year, as well as other inflationary cost increases, and partially offset by a $0.9 million non-recurring benefit from a concluded client program. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.8 million, or 10.3%, as variable costs were incurred in the past year to support the expansion of our sales, marketing, technology and operations functions. Depreciation and amortization . Depreciation and amortization expense increased $0.5 million, or 20.0%, primarily due to the increase in intangible assets following our acquisition of Bid4Assets on November 1, 2021. Other operating expenses (income) . Other operating expenses (income) was consistent between the three months ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Interest and other (income), net. Interest and other expenses (income), net increased $0.3 million, due to the effect of rising interest rates on our cash equivalent and short-term investment holdings. Provision for income taxes . Provision for income taxes increased $0.1 million due to the impact of foreign, state, and local taxes and permanent tax adjustments. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA. Non-GAAP EBITDA is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure and is equal to Net income (loss) plus Interest and other expense (income), net excluding the non-service components of net periodic pension (benefit); Provision (benefit) for income taxes; and Depreciation and amortization. Interest and other expense (income), net, can include non-operating gains and losses, such as from foreign currency fluctuations. Our definition of Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA differs from Non-GAAP EBITDA because we further adjust Non-GAAP EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition costs such as transaction expenses and changes in earn out estimates, business realignment expense, and goodwill, long-lived asset and other non-current asset impairment. 24 We believe Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA are useful to an investor in evaluating our performance for the following reasons: Depreciation and amortization expense primarily relates to property and equipment and the amortization of intangible assets. These expenses are non-cash charges that have fluctuated significantly in the past. As a result, we believe that adding back these non-cash charges is useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. As a result of varying federal and state income tax rates, we believe that presenting a financial measure that adjusts for provision for income taxes is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance for stock-based compensation requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to be recognized in the income statement based on their estimated fair values over the requisite vesting period. We believe adjusting for this stock-based compensation expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance related to business combinations requires the initial recognition of contingent consideration at fair value based upon information known or knowable as of the acquisition date, with subsequent changes in fair value recorded through the Consolidated Statements of Operations and disallows the capitalization of transaction costs. We believe adjusting for these acquisition related expenses is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. We believe adjusting for business realignment expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year, as these expenses are outside our ordinary course of business. We believe isolating non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our performance. We believe Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA are important indicators of our operational strength and the performance of our business because they provide a link between profitability and operating cash flow. We also believe that analysts and investors use Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA as supplemental measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of companies in our industry. Our management uses Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA: as measurements of operating performance because they assist us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as they remove the impact of items not directly resulting from our core operations; for planning purposes, including the preparation of our internal annual operating budget; to allocate resources to enhance the financial performance of our business; to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies; and to evaluate our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA as calculated by us are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In addition, Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA: (a) do not represent net income (loss) or cash flows from operating activities as defined by GAAP; (b) are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss), income (loss) from operations, cash provided by (used in) operating activities or our other financial information as determined under GAAP. We prepare Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA by eliminating from Non-GAAP EBITDA the impact of items that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. You are encouraged to evaluate these adjustments and the reasons we consider them appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to Non-GAAP EBITDA. Our presentation of Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an implication that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. The table below reconciles Net income to Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented. Three Months Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net income $ 3,967 $ 3,602 Interest and other income, net 1 (303 ) (33 ) Provision for income taxes 1,149 1,012 Depreciation and amortization 2,764 2,302 EBITDA $ 7,577 $ 6,883 Stock compensation expense 2,081 2,280 Acquisition costs and impairment of long-lived and other non-current assets 2 184 211 Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA $ 9,842 $ 9,374 1 Interest and other expenses (income), net excludes non-services pension and other postretirement benefit expenses. 25 2 Acquisition costs and impairment of long-lived and other non-current assets, are components of Other operating expenses (income), net on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our operational cash needs primarily relate to working capital, including staffing costs, technology expenses, leases of real estate and equipment used in our operations, and capital used for inventory purchases, which we have funded through existing cash balances and cash generated from operations. From time to time, we may use our capital resources for other activities, such as contract start-up costs, joint ventures, share repurchases and acquisitions. As of December 31, 2022, we had $76.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, which we believe is sufficient to meet the Companys anticipated cash needs for at least one year from the date of these financial statements. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures consist primarily of capitalized software, warehouse equipment, computers and purchased software, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, and leasehold improvements. The timing and volume of such capital expenditures in the future will be affected by the addition of new sellers or buyers or expansion of existing seller or buyer relationships. We intend to fund those expenditures primarily from our existing cash balances and operating cash flows. Our capital expenditures for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021, were $1.2 million and $2.0 million, respectively. This decrease was primarily driven by prior year growth in our distribution network facilities. As of December 31, 2022, we had no significant outstanding commitments for capital expenditures. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the development and deployment of new marketplaces, the introduction of new value-added services and the costs to establish additional distribution centers. We may seek to enter agreements with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, products or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased interest expense and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. There is no assurance that such financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Credit Agreement The Company maintains a $25.0 million Credit Agreement due March 31, 2024 (Credit Agreement). The Company may draw upon the Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes. Repayments of any borrowings under the Credit Agreement shall become available for redraw at any time by the Company. The interest rate on borrowings under the Credit Agreement is a variable rate per annum equal to the Daily Simple Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) in effect plus a margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%. Interest is payable monthly. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, the Company did not make any draws under the Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had no outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement and our borrowing availability was $25.0 million. The obligations under the Credit Agreeunment are unconditionally guaranteed by us and each of our existing and subsequently acquired or organized domestic subsidiaries and secured on a first priority basis by a security interest (subject to permitted liens) in substantially all assets owned by us, and each of our other domestic subsidiaries, subject to limited exceptions. The Credit Agreement contains certain financial and non-financial restrictive covenants including, among others, the requirement to maintain a minimum level of earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The Credit Agreement contains a number of affirmative and restrictive covenants including limitations on mergers, consolidations and dissolutions, investments and acquisitions, indebtedness and liens, and dividends and other restricted payments. As of December 31, 2022, the Company was in full compliance with the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. Working Capital Management Most of our sales are recorded subsequent to receipt of payment authorization, utilizing credit cards, wire transfers, and PayPal, an Internet based payment system, as methods of payments. As a result, we are not subject to significant collection risk, as goods are generally not shipped before payment is received. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused the Company's GMV and revenues to fluctuate, and the Company initially implemented cost control measures to protect against the uncertainties created by the severe economic restrictions in its initial phases. From a cash flow perspective, the Company employed working capital management practices, primarily in the form of temporary extensions to vendor payment terms, and also experienced accumulation in its payables to sellers balance due to COVID-19 restrictions, which continue to be a factor in certain countries, causing some buyer delays in their ability to pick up purchased assets. The Company is prepared to reimplement these measures should it face conditions consistent with the initial phases of the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect to continue to invest in enhancements to our e-commerce technology platform, marketplace capabilities and tools for data-driven product recommendations, omni-channel behavioral marketing, expanded analytics, and buyer/seller payment optimization. We intend to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside the United States. As a result, we did not record a provision for deferred U.S. tax expense on the $9.8 million of undistributed foreign earnings as of December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, and September 30, 2022, $18.0 million and $20.3 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. 26 Other Uses of Capital Resources Bid4Assets Earn-out Liability. As of December 31, 2022, the remaining earn-out fair value is $0 based upon actual performance through the final earn-out measurement period ending December 31, 2022. Share Repurchases . From time to time, we have been authorized to repurchase issued and outstanding shares of our common stock under a share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors. Share repurchases may be made through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. The repurchase program may be discontinued or suspended at any time and will be funded using our available cash. As of September 30, 2022, the Company had $6.6 million remaining share repurchase authorization. On December 6, 2022, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase plan of up to $8.4 million of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock through December 31, 2024. The Company repurchased 531,819 shares for $7.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had $7.8 million of remaining authorization to repurchase shares. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not have any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements that could be considered material off-balance sheet arrangements. Changes in Cash Flows: Three Months Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to the Three Months Ended December 31, 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was ($10.7) million and $1.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. The $12.6 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities between periods was attributable to cash flows associated with accounts payable and payables to sellers which had a net decrease of $18.7 million. While a decrease in the first fiscal quarter generally occurs due to seasonality in the timing of auction events and settlement payments, including lower transaction volumes around the holidays at the end of the quarter, the larger decrease towards the end of the three months ended December 31, 2022, was also affected by macroeconomic challenges slowing the supply of used vehicles. Net cash used in investing activities was $3.0 million and $13.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. The $10.0 million decrease in cash used in investing activities was driven by the prior year $11.2 million in cash paid at closing to acquire Bid4Assets on November 1, 2021, net of cash acquired. See Note 3 - Bid4Assets Acquisition for further information. This decrease was offset by $1.8 million in short-term investments purchased during the three months ended December 31, 2022. Net cash used in financing activities was $6.9 million and $3.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. The $3.1 million increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily driven by a $4.2 million increase in share repurchases, offset by $0.6 million in lower taxes paid in connection with the net settlement of stock compensation awards, and $0.5 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 27