Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include but are not limited to the factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, would, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continues or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There may be other factors of which we are currently unaware or deem immaterial that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this document and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained elsewhere in this document. Overview The Company operates a network of e-commerce marketplaces that enable buyers and sellers to transact in an efficient, automated environment offering over 500 product categories. The Companys marketplaces provide professional buyers access to a global, organized supply of new, surplus, and scrap assets presented with digital images and other relevant product information. Additionally, the Company enables its corporate and government sellers to enhance their financial return on offered assets by providing a liquid marketplace and value-added services that encompass the consultative management, valuation, and sale of surplus assets. The Company's services include program management, valuation, asset management, reconciliation, refurbishment and recycling, fulfillment, marketing and sales, warehousing and transportation, buyer support, compliance and risk mitigation, as well as self-directed service tools for its sellers. The Company organizes the products on its marketplaces into categories across major industry verticals such as consumer electronics, general merchandise, apparel, scientific equipment, aerospace parts and equipment, technology hardware, energy equipment, industrial capital assets, fleet and transportation equipment and specialty equipment. Currently, the Companys marketplaces are: www.liquidation.com, www.govdeals.com, www.networkintl.com, www.secondipity.com, and www.go-dove.com. We also operate a global search engine for used machinery and equipment at www.machinio.com. The Company has over 13,000 sellers, including Fortune 1000 and Global 500 organizations as well as federal, state, and local government agencies. We believe our ability to create liquid marketplaces for surplus and salvage assets generates a continuous flow of goods from our corporate and government sellers. This flow of goods in turn attracts an increasing number of professional buyers to our marketplaces. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2019, the approximate number of registered buyers increased from 3,514,000 to 3,630,000, or 3.3%. Our revenue. Substantially all of our revenue is earned through the following transaction models: Purchase model. Under our purchase transaction model, we recognize revenue within the Revenue line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations from the resale of inventory that we purchased from sellers. We consider these sellers to be our vendors. We pay our sellers either a fixed amount or a portion of the net or gross proceeds received from our completed sales based on the value we receive from the sale, in some cases, after deducting a required return to us that we have negotiated with the seller. Because we are the principal in purchase transaction model sales, we recognize as revenue the sale price paid by the buyer upon completion of a transaction. The proceeds paid by buyers also include transaction fees, referred to as buyer premiums. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, our purchase transaction model accounted for 20.5% and 21.9% of our GMV, and 61.3% and 66.1% of our total revenues, respectively. These amounts included sales of commercial merchandise sourced from vendor contracts with Amazon.com, Inc. by our RSCG segment. The commercial merchandise we purchased under these contracts represented 48.3% and 40.5% of consolidated Costs of goods sold for three months ended December 31, 2019 and 21 2018. For the three months ended December 31, 2018, purchase model revenues also included revenue earned from the sale of property obtained under the Scrap Contract, which concluded on September 30, 2019, and accounted for 7.5% of our total revenue for the that period. Consignment model fee revenue. Under our consignment transaction model, we enable our sellers to sell goods they own in our marketplaces and we charge them a commission fee based on the gross or net proceeds received from such sales. The revenue from our consignment transaction model is recognized within the Fee revenue line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Because we are the agent in consignment model sales, our commission fee revenue, which we refer to as seller commissions, represents a percentage of the sales price the buyer pays upon completion of a transaction. We vary the percentage amount of the seller commission depending on the various value-added services we provide to the seller to facilitate the transaction. For example, we generally increase the percentage amount of the commission if we take possession, handle, ship, or provide enhanced product information for the merchandise. In most cases we collect the seller commission by deducting the appropriate amount from the sales proceeds prior to the distribution to the seller after completion of the transaction. In addition to seller commissions, we also collect buyer premiums. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, our consignment model accounted for 79.5% and 78.1% of our GMV, and 32.0% and 29.8% of our total revenues, respectively. Other fee revenue . We also earn non-consignment fee revenue from Machinio's sales listing subscription service, as well as other services including returns management and refurbishment of assets, as well as asset valuation services. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, our other revenues accounted for 6.7% and 4.1% of our total revenues, respectively. Industry trends. We believe there are several industry trends positively impacting the growth of our business including: (1) the increase in the volume of returned merchandise handled both online and in stores as online and omni-channel retail grow as a percentage of overall retail sales; (2) the increase in government regulations and the need for corporations to have sustainability solutions necessitating verifiable recycling and remarketing of surplus assets; (3) the increase in outsourcing by corporate and government organizations of disposition activities for surplus and end-of-life assets as they focus on reducing costs, improving transparency, compliance and working capital flows, and increasingly prefer service providers with a proven track record, innovative scalable solutions and the ability to make a strategic impact in the reverse supply chain, which we expect to increase our seller base; (4) an increase in buyer demand for surplus merchandise as consumers trade down by purchasing less expensive goods and seek greater value from their purchases, which results in lower per unit prices and margins in our retail goods vertical, and (5) in the long-term we expect innovation in the retail supply chain will increase the pace of product obsolescence and, therefore, increase the supply of surplus assets. Our Vendor Agreements Our commercial agreements. We have vendor contracts with Amazon.com, Inc. under which we acquire and sell commercial merchandise. The property we purchased under these contracts represented 48.3%, and 40.5% of consolidated Cost of goods sold for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Scrap Contract. Under the Scrap Contract, which concluded on September 30, 2019, we acquired, managed and sold all non-electronic scrap property of the DoD turned into the DLA, and paid the DLA a revenue-sharing payment equal to 64.5% of the gross resale proceeds. Scrap property generally consisted of items determined by the DoD to have no use beyond their base material content, such as metals, alloys, and building materials. We bore all of the costs for the sorting, merchandising and sale of the property. The resale transactions for scrap property sourced under this contract followed the purchase model. For the three months ended December 31, 2018, the resale of scrap property that we purchased under the Scrap Contract accounted for 2.6% of our GMV and 7.5% of our total revenues. The results of the Scrap Contract were included in our CAG segment. Key Business Metrics Our management periodically reviews certain key business metrics for operational planning purposes and to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocation of resources and our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. These key business metrics include: Gross merchandise volume (GMV). GMV is the total sales value of all merchandise sold by us or our sellers through our marketplaces or by us through other channels during a given period of time. We review GMV because it provides a measure of the volume of goods being sold in our marketplaces and thus the activity of those marketplaces. GMV also provides a means to 22 evaluate the effectiveness of investments that we have made and continue to make, including in the areas of buyer and seller support, value-added services, product development, sales and marketing, and operations. Total Registered Buyers. We grow our buyer base through a combination of marketing and promotional efforts. A person becomes a registered buyer by completing an online registration process on one of our marketplaces. As part of this process, we collect business and personal information, including name, title, company name, business address and contact information, and information on how the person intends to use our marketplaces. Each prospective buyer must also accept our terms and conditions of use. Following the completion of the online registration process, we verify each prospective buyers e-mail address and confirm that the person is not listed on any banned persons list maintained internally or by the U.S. federal government. After the verification process, which is completed generally within 24 hours, the registration is approved and activated, and the prospective buyer is added to our registered buyer list. Total registered buyers, as of a given date, represent the aggregate number of persons or entities who have registered on one of our marketplaces. We use this metric to evaluate how well our marketing and promotional efforts are performing. Total registered buyers exclude duplicate registrations, buyers who are suspended from utilizing our marketplaces and those buyers who have voluntarily removed themselves from our registration database. In addition, if we become aware of registered buyers that are no longer in business, we remove them from our database. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had approximately 3,630,000 and 3,514,000 registered buyers, respectively. Total auction participants. For each auction we manage, the number of auction participants represents the total number of registered buyers who have bid one or more times in that auction. As a result, a registered buyer who bids, or participates, in more than one auction is counted as an auction participant in each auction in which he or she participates. Thus, total auction participants for a given period is the sum of the auction participants in each auction conducted during that period. We use this metric to allow us to compare our online auction marketplaces to our competitors, including other online auction sites and traditional on-site auctioneers. In addition, we measure total auction participants on a periodic basis to evaluate the activity level of our base of registered buyers and to measure the performance of our marketing and promotional efforts. During the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, approximately 453,000 and 493,000, respectively, total auction participants participated in auctions on our marketplaces. Completed transactions. Completed transactions represents the number of auctions in a given period from which we have recorded revenue. Similar to GMV, we believe that completed transactions is a key business metric because it provides an additional measurement of the volume of activity flowing through our marketplaces. During the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we completed approximately 136,000 and 145,000 transactions, respectively. Non-GAAP Financial Measures EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure and is equal to net (loss) income plus interest and other expense, net excluding the non-service components of net periodic pension (benefit) expense; provision (benefit) for income taxes; and depreciation and amortization. Interest and other expense, net, can include non-operating gains and losses, such as from foreign currency fluctuations. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA differs from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition costs such as transaction expenses and changes in earn out estimates, business realignment expense, deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustments, and goodwill and long-lived asset impairment. We believe EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are useful to an investor in evaluating our performance for the following reasons: Depreciation and amortization expense primarily relates to property and equipment and the amortization of intangible assets. These expenses are non-cash charges that have fluctuated significantly in the past. As a result, we believe that adding back these non-cash charges is useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. As a result of varying federal and state income tax rates, we believe that presenting a financial measure that adjusts for provision (benefit) for income taxes is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance for stock-based compensation requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to be recognized in the income statement based on their estimated fair values. We believe adjusting for this stock-based compensation expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance related to business combinations requires the initial recognition of contingent consideration at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recorded through the statements of operations, and disallows the 23 capitalization of transaction costs. We believe adjusting for these acquisition related expenses is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. We believe adjusting for business realignment expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year, as these expenses are outside our ordinary course of business. We believe isolating non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our performance. We believe EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are important indicators of our operational strength and the performance of our business because they provide a link between profitability and operating cash flow. We also believe that analysts and investors use EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as supplemental measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of companies in our industry. Our management uses EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA: as measurements of operating performance because they assist us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as they remove the impact of items not directly resulting from our core operations; for planning purposes, including the preparation of our internal annual operating budget; to allocate resources to enhance the financial performance of our business; to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies; and to evaluate our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA as calculated by us are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In addition, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA: (a) do not represent net (loss) income or cash flows from operating activities as defined by GAAP; (b) are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as alternatives to net (loss) income, income from operations, cash provided by operating activities or our other financial information as determined under GAAP. We prepare Adjusted EBITDA by adjusting EBITDA to eliminate the impact of items that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. You are encouraged to evaluate these adjustments and the reasons we consider them appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, Adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an implication that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. The table below reconciles net loss to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented. Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) (Unaudited) Net loss $ (5,196) $ (5,022) Interest and other income, net 1 (166) (233) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 458 266 Depreciation and amortization 1,572 1,204 EBITDA (3,332) (3,785) Stock compensation expense 2 1,039 1,513 Acquisition costs and impairment of long-lived assets 3 5 82 Business realignment expenses 3,4 34 Fair value adjustments to acquisition earn-outs 3 200 Deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustment 3 432 Adjusted EBITDA $ (2,085) $ (1,724) 1 Represents Interest and other income, net, per the Statement of Operations, excluding the non-service components of net periodic pension (benefit) expense. 2 Excludes the impact of forfeitures of stock awards by employees terminated by business realignment actions, which is included in the business realignment expenses line. There were no impacts for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. 3 Acquisition costs, impairment of long-lived assets, fair value adjustments to acquisition earn-outs, and business realignment expenses are components of Other operating expenses on the Statements of Operations. 24 4 Business realignment expense includes the amounts accounted for as exit costs under ASC 420 as described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the related impacts of business realignment actions subject to other accounting guidance. There were no related impacts for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company's critical accounting policies and estimates are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2019, and in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements. As discussed in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , we adopted ASC 842, Leases , as of October 1, 2019, using a modified retrospective approach where our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2019 was not changed. Relative to the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, there have been no other material changes to the Company's accounting policies used in preparing these interim consolidated financial statements. As of July 1, 2019, the Company performed its annual impairment testing using a fair-value based test for all reporting units, and determined the fair value for each of its reporting units with goodwill balances substantially exceeded their carrying values except for the Machinio reporting unit, which exceeded its carrying value by approximately 11%. The Machinio reporting unit, which includes $14.6 million of goodwill, was acquired by the Company on July 10, 2018. The Company continues to monitor this reporting unit for changes that could impact the recoverability of goodwill, which will depend on Machinio's ability to grow in size, enhance its business models, and accumulate historical financial results, which will affect the company specific risk premium used in subsequent impairment tests. As no changes occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2019 that represented impairment indicators, no interim impairment testing was performed. Components of Revenue and Expenses Revenue. Refer to the discussion in the Our revenue section above, and to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of the Company's related accounting policies. Cost of goods sold. Refer to the discussion in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of the Company's Costs of goods sold and related accounting policies. Seller distributions. Under the Scrap Contract, which concluded on September 30, 2019, we acquired scrap property from the DLA for resale and paid the DLA seller distributions equal to 64.5% of the gross resale proceeds. Technology and operations. Technology expenses consist primarily of the cost of technical staff who develop, deploy, and maintain our marketplaces and corporate infrastructure. These personnel also develop and upgrade the software systems that support our operations, such as sales processing. Technology expenses also includes certain costs associated with our e-commerce platform. Because our marketplaces and support systems require frequent upgrades and enhancements to maintain viability, we have determined that the useful life for certain internally developed software is less than one year. As a result, we expense those costs as incurred. However, where we determine that the useful life of the internally developed software will be greater than one year, we capitalize development costs in accordance with ASC 350-40, Internal-use software. As such, we are capitalizing certain development costs associated with our e-commerce platform, as well as other software development activities. Operations expenses consist primarily of operating costs, including buyer relations, shipping logistics and distribution center operating costs. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses include the cost of our sales and marketing personnel as well as the cost of marketing and promotional activities. These activities include all sales and marketing-related activity, including but not limited to trade shows and online marketing campaigns such as paid search advertising. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses include all corporate and administrative functions that support our operations and provide an infrastructure to facilitate our future growth. These expenses are generally more fixed in nature than our other operating expenses and do not significantly vary in response to the volume of merchandise sold through our marketplaces. 25 Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of depreciation of property and equipment, amortization of internally developed software, and amortization of intangible assets. Other operating expenses (income). Other operating expense includes the change in fair value of contingent consideration, as well as business realignment expenses, including those associated with restructuring initiatives and the exit of certain business operations. Interest and other (income) expense, net. Interest (income) expense and other expense, net consists of interest income on short-term investments and the promissory note issued to JTC, the components of net periodic pension (benefit) other than the service component, and impacts of foreign currency fluctuations. Income taxes. For interim income tax reporting, we estimate our annual effective tax rate and apply this effective tax rate to our year-to-date pre-tax (loss) income. Our effective income tax rate before discrete items was (9.7%) for the three months ended December 31, 2019. The effective tax rate differed from the statutory federal rate of 21% primarily as a result of the valuation allowance charge on current year losses and the impact of foreign, state, and local income taxes and permanent tax adjustments. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our operating results: Three Months Ended December 31, (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 30,349 $ 35,735 $ (5,386) (15.1) % Fee revenue 19,155 18,318 837 4.6 Total revenue 49,504 54,053 (4,549) (8.4) Costs and expenses from operations: Cost of goods sold (excludes depreciation and amortization) 24,176 24,956 (780) (3.1) Seller distributions 2,624 (2,624) (100.0) Technology and operations 11,241 12,524 (1,283) (10.2) Sales and marketing 9,605 8,981 624 6.9 General and administrative 7,707 8,634 (927) (10.7) Depreciation and amortization 1,572 1,204 368 30.6 Other operating expenses 193 205 (12) (5.9) Total costs and expenses 54,494 59,128 (4,634) (7.8) Loss from operations (4,990) (5,075) 85 1.7 Interest and other income, net (252) (319) 67 21.0 Loss before provision (benefit) for income taxes (4,738) (4,756) 18 0.4 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 458 266 192 72.2 Net loss $ (5,196) $ (5,022) $ (174) (3.5) % 26 The following table presents segment GMV, revenue, gross profit (which is calculated as total revenue less cost of goods sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) and Seller distributions), and gross profit margin for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 GovDeals: GMV $ 79,191 $ 76,309 Total revenue 8,015 7,658 Gross profit 7,446 7,061 Gross profit margin 92.9 % 92.2 % RSCG: GMV 39,870 35,444 Total revenue 31,697 29,478 Gross profit 10,305 9,549 Gross profit margin 32.5 % 32.4 % CAG: GMV 29,533 46,360 Total revenue 7,942 15,482 Gross profit 5,814 8,883 Gross profit margin 73.2 % 57.4 % Machinio: GMV Total revenue 1,850 991 Gross profit 1,763 878 Gross profit margin 95.3 % 88.6 % Corporate & Other: GMV 435 Total revenue 444 Gross profit 102 Gross profit margin % 23.0 % Consolidated: GMV 148,594 158,548 Total revenue 49,504 54,053 Gross profit 25,328 26,473 Gross profit margin 51.2 % 49.0 % Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Segment Results GovDeals. Revenue from our GovDeals segment increased 4.7%, or $0.4 million, due to a 3.8%, or $2.9 million increase in GMV from adding new sellers. As a result of the increase in revenues, gross profit increased 5.5%, or $0.4 million. Gross profit margin was consistent between the periods. RSCG. Revenue from our RSCG segment increased 7.5%, or $2.2 million, due to a 12.5%, or $4.4 million, increase in GMV driven by transactions under both the purchase and consignment models related to growing volumes within existing and new 27 seller accounts, partially offset by a decline in shipping fees charged on transactions conducted under the purchase model. As a result of the increase in revenues, gross profit increased 7.9%, or $0.8 million. Gross profit margin was consistent between the periods. CAG. Revenue and GMV from the CAG segment decreased 48.7%, or $7.5 million, and 36.3%, or $16.8 million, respectively. The conclusion of the Scrap Contract caused revenue and GMV to each decline by $4.0 million. Excluding the impact of the completed Scrap Contract, revenue decreased by 31.2%, or $3.6 million, and GMV decreased by 30.4%, or $12.8 million. The declines were influenced by a strong prior year performance in the Asia-Pacific region, and associated with softness in the energy and industrial verticals. Gross profit within the CAG segment decreased 34.5%, or $3.1 million, due to a $1.4 million impact from the completion of the Scrap Contract, and as a result of reduction in revenues. Gross profit margin increased to 73.2% from 57.4% due the completion of the Scrap Contract, which had lower gross profit margins than the remaining business, and from the increase in mix of revenues earned from the consignment model. Machinio. Revenue from our Machinio segment increased 86.7%, or $0.9 million, due to an increase in subscription activity, and $0.4 million due to revenue earned from deferred revenues no longer containing effects from purchase accounting. As a result of the increase in revenues, gross profit increased 100.8%, or $0.9 million. Corporate & Other. The changes in revenue, GMV, gross profit and gross profit margin are due to the Company's exit from the IronDirect business in January 2019. Consolidated Results Revenue - Total consolidated revenue decreased $4.5 million, or 8.4%. Refer to the discussion of Segment Results above for discussion of the decrease in revenue. Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold decreased $0.8 million, or 3.1%, primarily due to the revenue declines in CAG and the Company's exit from the IronDirect business in January 2019, partially offset by the revenue increases in RSCG. Seller distributions. Seller distributions decreased $2.6 million, or 100.0%, due to the completion of the Scrap Contract. Technology and operations expenses. Technology and operations expenses decreased $1.3 million, or 10.2%. The decrease included $1.3 million due to the completion of the Scrap Contract and $0.8 million in reductions in Corporate and CAG (excluding the Scrap Contract) driven by benefits from restructuring and other organizational changes performed in fiscal 2019. These decreases were partially offset by a $1.0 million increase in RSCG and GovDeals driven by increased customer support and operations expenses from the continued growth in those segments. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $0.6 million, or 6.9%, due to a $0.2 million increase in sales expenses driven by the increases in revenues at GovDeals and RSCG, partially offset by the reduced revenues in CAG, and a $0.4 million increase in marketing labor expenses to promote our new e-commerce technology platform and develop our consolidated marketplace. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.9 million, or 10.7%, and was impacted by the completion of the Scrap Contract and by benefits from restructuring and other organizational changes performed in fiscal 2019. Other operating expenses. Other operating expense of $0.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 represents the increase in fair value of the Machinio earn-out liability. Other operating expense of $0.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 represents the increase in the fair value of the Machinio earn-out liability and business restructuring activities. Interest and other income, net. Interest and other income, net, decreased by $0.1 million. Provision (benefit) for income taxes . Provision (benefit) for income taxes increased $0.2 million due to the impact of foreign, state, and local taxes and permanent tax adjustments. 28 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our operational cash needs primarily relate to working capital, including capital used for inventory purchases, which we have funded through cash generated from operations. From time to time, we may use our capital resources for other activities, such as acquisitions. As of December 31, 2019, we had $24.2 million in cash as well as $25.0 million in short-term investments. In fiscal 2019, we deployed our new e-commerce technology platform. We expect to continue investment as we prepare for the launch of a new consolidated marketplace capabilities and for the implementation of tools for data-driven product recommendation, omni-channel behavioral marketing and predictive analytics. In addition, the retail supply transaction volume, which has a unique set of services, remains a part of our future integration plans. We may also invest in new business ventures, such as Machinio in July 2018, for which we paid $16.7 million in cash and have a $5.0 million earn-out payment that is expected to settle prior to the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020. We did not record a provision for deferred U.S. tax expense on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries because we intend to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries outside the United States. The amount of such undistributed foreign earnings was $3.6 million as of December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2019 and September 30, 2019, $19.7 million and $21.0 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. We are authorized to repurchase issued and outstanding shares of our common stock under a share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors. Share repurchases may be made through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. The repurchase program may be discontinued or suspended at any time and will be funded using our available cash. We did not repurchase shares under this program during the three months ended December 31, 2019 or 2018. As of December 31, 2019, we are authorized to repurchase up to an additional $10.1 million in shares under this program. Most of our sales are recorded subsequent to receipt of payment authorization, utilizing credit cards, wire transfers, and PayPal, an Internet based payment system, as methods of payments. As a result, we are not subject to significant collection risk, as goods are generally not shipped before payment is received. Changes in Cash Flows: Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Net cash used in operating activities was $18.6 million and $8.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The $10.5 million increase in cash used in operations between periods was attributable to higher year-end compensation payments made due to the improved financial performance in FY19 compared to FY18, final payments of seller distributions associated with the completion of the Scrap Contract, the settlement of the sales tax audit performed by the State of California, and changes in working capital primarily from change in accounts receivable, settlement of accounts payable, payables to sellers and purchase of inventory. Our working capital accounts are subject to natural variations depending on the timing of cash receipts and payments, however, other than the Machinio earn-out that will be paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, there have been no additional significant changes to the working capital requirements for the Company. Net cash provided by investing activities was $6.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019, and $11.6 million was used by investing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2018. The $17.8 million increase in cash provided by investing activities was driven by a $15.0 million increase in activity related to short-term investments which are used to manage the Company's excess cash balances, and $2.5 million principal payment on the promissory note issued to JTC. As discussed in Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Company's consolidated financial statements, the Company concluded that it remains probable that the Company will collect the amounts related to the promissory note issued to JTC. However, the Company will continue to monitor for changes that could impact the recoverability of the promissory note, which will depend on JTC's subsequent operating performance and ability to make the payments required by the new repayment schedule. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019. The $0.5 million increase in cash used by financing activities consisted of taxes paid associated with net settlement of stock compensation awards. Net settlement was not used in the prior year comparable period. Capital Expenditures. Our capital expenditures consist primarily of capitalized software, computers and purchased software, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, and leasehold improvements. The timing and volume of such capital expenditures in the future will be affected by the addition of new sellers or buyers or expansion of existing seller or buyer relationships. We 29 intend to fund those expenditures primarily from operating cash flows. Our capital expenditures for the three months ended December 31, 2019 were $1.3 million. As of December 31, 2019, we had no significant outstanding commitments for capital expenditures. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the development and deployment of new marketplaces, the introduction of new value-added services and the costs to establish additional distribution centers. Although we are currently not a party to any definitive agreement with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased interest expense and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. There is no assurance that such financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements that could be considered material off-balance sheet arrangements.