Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include but are not limited to the factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2017 and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, would, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continues or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There may be other factors of which we are currently unaware or deem immaterial that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this document and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained elsewhere in this document. Overview About us. We manage, value, and sell inventory and equipment for business and government clients by operating a network of leading ecommerce marketplaces that enable buyers and sellers to transact in an efficient, automated environment offering over 500 product categories. Our marketplaces provide professional buyers access to a global, organized supply of new, surplus, and scrap assets presented with digital images and other relevant product information. Additionally, we enable corporate and government sellers to enhance their financial return on offered assets by providing a liquid marketplace and value-added services that encompass the consultative management, valuation, and sale of surplus assets. Our broad range of services include program management, valuation, asset management, reconciliation, Return to Vendor ("RTV") and Returns Management Authorization ("RMA"), refurbishment and recycling, fulfillment, marketing and sales, warehousing and transportation, buyer support, and compliance and risk mitigation, as well as self-service tools. We organize the products on our marketplaces into categories across major industry verticals such as consumer electronics, general merchandise, apparel, scientific equipment, aerospace parts and equipment, technology hardware, energy equipment, industrial capital assets, fleet and transportation equipment and specialty equipment. Our network of marketplaces includes: www.liquidation.com, www.govliquidation.com, www.govdeals.com, www.networkintl.com, www.secondipity.com, www.go-dove.com, www.unclesamsretailoutlet.com, www.irondirect.com, and www.auctiondeals.com. We have over 10,000 sellers, including Fortune 1000 and Global 500 organizations as well as federal, state, and local government agencies. We have three reportable segments, Retail Supply Chain Group (RSCG), Capital Assets Group (CAG), and GovDeals. See Note 13 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for Segment Information. 20 We believe our ability to create liquid marketplaces for surplus and salvage assets generates a continuous flow of goods from our corporate and government sellers. This flow of goods in turn attracts an increasing number of professional buyers to our marketplaces. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, the number of registered buyers grew from 3,018,000 to 3,209,000, or approximately 6.0%. Our revenue. Substantially all of our revenue is earned through the following transaction models. Purchase model. Under our purchase transaction model, we recognize revenue from the resale of inventory that we purchased from sellers. We consider these sellers to be our vendors. We pay our vendors either a fixed amount or a portion of the net or gross proceeds received from our completed sales based on the value we receive from the sale, in some cases, after deducting a required return to us that we have negotiated with the seller. Because we are the primary obligor, and take general and physical inventory risks and credit risk under this transaction model, we recognize as revenue the sale price paid by the buyer upon completion of a transaction. Also included in the proceeds paid by buyers are transaction fees charged to the buyers, referred to as buyer premiums. Revenue from our purchase transaction model accounted for approximately 65.9% of our total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Included in these amounts is revenue earned from the sale of property obtained under the Scrap Contract, where the price we pay the Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services (DLA) of the Department of Defense (DoD) for the property purchased is based on a revenue share model, and which accounted for approximately 8.4% of our total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The merchandise sold under our purchase transaction model accounted for approximately 24.7% of our gross merchandise volume, which is the total sales value of all merchandise sold through our marketplaces during a given period, for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The revenue from our purchase transaction model is recognized within the Revenue line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Consignment model fee revenue. Under our consignment transaction model, we enable our sellers to sell goods they own in our marketplaces and we charge them a commission fee based on the gross or net proceeds received from such sales. This commission fee revenue, which we refer to as seller commissions, represents a percentage of the sales price the buyer pays upon completion of a transaction. We vary the percentage amount of the seller commission depending on the various value-added services we provide to the seller to facilitate the transaction. For example, we generally increase the percentage amount of the commission if we take possession, handle, ship, or provide enhanced product information for the merchandise. In most cases we collect the seller commission by deducting the appropriate amount from the sales proceeds prior to their distribution to the seller after completion of the transaction. In addition to the seller commissions, we also collect transaction fees charged to buyers, referred to as buyer premiums. Revenue from our consignment model accounted for approximately 29.1% of our total revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The merchandise sold under our consignment model accounted for approximately 75.3% of our GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The revenue from our consignment transaction model is recognized within the Fee Revenue line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. We also earn non-consignment fee revenue, which is largely made up of service revenue related to our Surplus Contract. This revenue is recognized within the Fee revenue line item on our Consolidated Statements of Operations, and is discussed in further detail in Note 3 - Significant Contracts of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We collect a buyer premium on substantially all transactions under the transaction models we offer to sellers. Buyer premiums are calculated as a percentage of the sale price of the merchandise sold and are paid to us by the buyer. Buyer premiums are in addition to the price of the merchandise. Industry trends. We believe there are several industry trends positively impacting the growth of our business including: (1) the increase in the adoption of the Internet by businesses to conduct ecommerce both in the United States and abroad; (2) the increase in the volume of returned merchandise handled both online and in stores as online and omni-channel retail grow as a percentage of overall retail sales; (3) the increase in government regulations and the need for corporations to have sustainability solutions necessitating verifiable recycling and remarketing of surplus assets; (4) the increase in outsourcing by corporate and government organizations of disposition activities for surplus and end-of-life assets as they focus on reducing costs, improving transparency, compliance and working capital flows, and increasingly prefer service providers with a proven track record, innovative scalable solutions and the ability to make a strategic impact in the reverse supply chain, which we expect to increase our seller base; (5) an increase in buyer demand for surplus merchandise as consumers trade down by purchasing less expensive goods and seek greater value from their purchases, which results in lower per unit prices and margins in our retail goods vertical, and (6) in the long-term we expect innovation in the retail supply chain will increase the pace of product obsolescence and, therefore, the supply of surplus assets. 21 Our Vendor Agreements Our DoD agreements. We have two vendor contracts with the DoD pursuant to which we acquire, manage and sell excess property. Surplus Contract. The Surplus Contract is a competitive-bid contract under which we acquire, manage and sell usable DoD surplus personal property turned into the DLA. Surplus property generally consists of items determined by the DoD to be no longer needed, and not claimed for reuse by any federal agency, such as electronics, industrial equipment, office supplies, scientific and medical equipment, aircraft parts, clothing and textiles. The Surplus Contract requires us to purchase substantially all usable non-rolling stock surplus property offered by the DoD at 4.35% of the DoDs original acquisition value (OAV). The current Surplus Contract, which is the third such contract awarded to us since 2001, became effective in December 2014, covers only non-rolling stock and has a base term of two years with four one-year options to extend. The prior, or second, Surplus contract required us to purchase substantially all rolling and non-rolling usable surplus property offered by the DoD at 1.8% of the DoDs OAV; the wind-down period under the second Surplus contract was in effect until January 2017 to allow for the continued processing of usable recycling control point non-rolling stock surplus property. The initial two-year base period of the current Surplus contract ended in December 2016 and was extended through December 14, 2017. Transactions under this contract follow the purchase transaction model described above. This contract is included within our CAG segment. On October 11, 2017, the DLA published a Request for Technical Proposal (RFTP) and draft Invitation for Bid (IFB) for the sale of surplus, useable non-rolling stock property. The RFTP and IFB related to the DLAs award of two term contracts. On December 5, 2017, the DLA determined that we were not the high bidder for either of the two contracts. We made our final inventory purchase under the Surplus Contract during December 2017, and we are currently in the process of winding down the Surplus Contract. The Surplus Contract accounted for $74.6 million, or 27.6% of revenue in fiscal year 2017, $21.1 million or 29.9% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and $16.2 million or 26.5% of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We expect revenue to continue to decline further in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2018, and no further revenue from this contract in future periods. The property sold under the Surplus Contract accounted for approximately 8.9% and 9.9% of our GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. In regards to the impact on our profitability resulting from the Surplus contract revenue change noted above, we anticipate the lost profits will be offset by benefits from the reorganization and realignment efforts in fiscal 2017 and Q1-FY18 (see Note 11 Business realignment expenses). The reorganization efforts in our CAG commercial business and Corporate functions are expected to generate a benefit during FY18 and beyond, which combined with the 2017 realignments of our Truckcenter and Iron Direct businesses, are expected to offset the impact of the DoD Surplus contract. We recorded approximately $0.5 million of severance and occupancy cost during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as a result of the restructuring and realignment efforts undertaken due to the loss of the Surplus Contract. The wind-down is expected to be completed within fiscal 2018. Scrap Contract. On April 8, 2016, the DLA awarded us the second Scrap Contract. Under the second Scrap Contract, we acquire scrap property from the DLA and pay the DLA a revenue-sharing payment equal to 64.5% of the gross resale proceeds. The Scrap Contract is a competitive-bid contract under which we acquire, manage and sell substantially all scrap property of the DoD turned into the DLA. Scrap property generally consists of items determined by the DoD to have no use beyond their base material content, such as metals, alloys, and building materials. We bear all of the costs for the sorting, merchandising and sale of the property. The second Scrap Contract has a 36-month base term, commencing in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, with two 12-month extension options exercisable by the DLA. Transactions under this contract follow the purchase transaction model described above. Under the first Scrap contract, we acquired scrap property at a per pound price and disbursed to the DLA a percentage of the profits, most recently 65% of the amount realized from the sale of the inventory, after deduction for allowable expenses. We refer to these disbursement payments to the DoD as profit-sharing distributions. We recognized as revenue the gross proceeds from these sales. The DoD reimbursed us for certain direct expenses deemed to be payable by the DoD rather than by us. During fiscal year 2015, if our buyer base met certain small business criteria as defined in the contract, we received an additional incentive payment which was withheld from payments to the DLA. The prior Scrap contract expired on September 30, 2016. 22 Resale of scrap property that we purchased under the Scrap Contract accounted for 8.4% and 10.0% of our revenue, and 3.3%, and 4.5% of our GMV for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. This contract is included within our CAG segment. Our commercial agreements. We have a vendor contract with Amazon.com, Inc. under which we acquire and sell commercial merchandise. The property we purchased under this contract represented approximately 19.4%, and 17.8% of cost of goods sold for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. This contract is included within our RSCG segment. Key Business Metrics Our management periodically reviews certain key business metrics for operational planning purposes and to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocation of resources and our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. These key business metrics include: Gross merchandise volume. Gross merchandise volume, or GMV, is the total sales value of all merchandise sold through our marketplaces during a given period. We review GMV because it provides a measure of the volume of goods being sold in our marketplaces and thus the activity of those marketplaces. GMV also provides a means to evaluate the effectiveness of investments that we have made and continue to make, including in the areas of buyer and seller support, value-added services, product development, sales and marketing, and operations. The GMV of goods sold in our marketplaces during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 totaled $155.4 million and $159.7 million, respectively. Total registered buyers. We grow our buyer base through a combination of marketing and promotional efforts. A person becomes a registered buyer by completing an online registration process on one of our marketplaces. As part of this process, we collect business and personal information, including name, title, company name, business address and contact information, and information on how the person intends to use our marketplaces. Each prospective buyer must also accept our terms and conditions of use. Following the completion of the online registration process, we verify each prospective buyers e-mail address and confirm that the person is not listed on any banned persons list maintained internally or by the U.S. federal government. After the verification process, which is completed generally within 24 hours, the registration is approved and activated, and the prospective buyer is added to our registered buyer list. Total registered buyers, as of a given date, represent the aggregate number of persons or entities who have registered on one of our marketplaces. We use this metric to evaluate how well our marketing and promotional efforts are performing. Total registered buyers exclude duplicate registrations, buyers who are suspended from utilizing our marketplaces and those buyers who have voluntarily removed themselves from our registration database. In addition, if we become aware of registered buyers that are no longer in business, we remove them from our database. As of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had 3,209,000 and 3,171,000 registered buyers, respectively. Total auction participants. For each auction we manage, the number of auction participants represents the total number of registered buyers who have bid one or more times in that auction. As a result, a registered buyer who bids, or participates, in more than one auction is counted as an auction participant in each auction in which he or she participates. Thus, total auction participants for a given period is the sum of the auction participants in each auction conducted during that period. We use this metric to allow us to compare our online auction marketplaces to our competitors, including other online auction sites and traditional on-site auctioneers. In addition, we measure total auction participants on a periodic basis to evaluate the activity level of our base of registered buyers and to measure the performance of our marketing and promotional efforts. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, 519,000 and 544,000 total auction participants participated in auctions on our marketplaces, respectively. Completed transactions. Completed transactions represents the number of auctions in a given period from which we have recorded revenue. Similar to GMV, we believe that completed transactions is a key business metric because it provides an additional measurement of the volume of activity flowing through our marketplaces. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we completed 122,280 and 129,000 transactions, respectively. Non-GAAP Financial Measures EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. EBITDA is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure and is equal to net income plus interest and other (income) expense, net; provision for income taxes; and depreciation and amortization. Interest and other (income) expense, net, can include nonoperating gains and losses, such as from foreign currency fluctuations and disposals of 23 fixed assets. Our definition of adjusted EBITDA differs from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition costs such as transaction expenses and changes in earn out estimates, business realignment expense, disposition expenses, and goodwill and long-lived asset impairment. We believe EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are useful to an investor in evaluating our performance for the following reasons: Depreciation and amortization expense primarily relates to property and equipment, and the amortization of intangible assets. These expenses are non-cash charges that have fluctuated significantly over the past five years. As a result, we believe that adding back these non-cash charges to net income is useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. As a result of varying federal and state income tax rates, we believe that presenting a financial measure that adjusts net income for provision for income taxes is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance for stock-based compensation requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to be recognized in the income statement based on their estimated fair values. We believe adjusting net income for this stock-based compensation expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance related to business combinations requires the recognition of contingent consideration so that it is recognized at the time of acquisition rather than when it is probable and disallows the capitalization of transaction costs. We believe adjusting net income for these acquisition related expenses is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. We believe adjusting net income for business realignment expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year, as these expenses are outside our ordinary course of business. We believe isolating non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our performance. We believe EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are important indicators of our operational strength and the performance of our business because they provide a link between profitability and operating cash flow. We also believe that analysts and investors use EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as supplemental measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of companies in our industry. Our management uses EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA: as measurements of operating performance because they assist us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as they remove the impact of items not directly resulting from our core operations; for planning purposes, including the preparation of our internal annual operating budget; to allocate resources to enhance the financial performance of our business; to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies; and to evaluate our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as calculated by us are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In addition, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA: (a) do not represent net income or cash flows from operating activities as defined by GAAP; (b) are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as alternatives to net income, income from operations, cash provided by operating activities or our other financial information as determined under GAAP. We prepare adjusted EBITDA by adjusting EBITDA to eliminate the impact of items that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. You are encouraged to evaluate these adjustments and the reasons we consider them appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to EBITDA. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an implication that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. The table below reconciles income from continuing operations to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations for the periods presented. 24 Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 2016 (In thousands) (Unaudited) Net loss $ (1,212 ) $ (8,397 ) Interest and other (income) expense, net (425 ) 34 (Benefit) provision for income taxes (4,815 ) 103 Depreciation and amortization 1,211 1,429 EBITDA (5,241 ) (6,831 ) Stock compensation expense 930 2,500 Business realignment expenses* 1,349 Adjusted EBITDA $ (2,962 ) $ (4,331 ) * Business realignment expenses, which are excluded from Adjusted EBITDA, are included in Other operating expenses (income) on the Statement of Operations. See Note 11 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. A critical accounting estimate is one which is both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We continuously evaluate our critical accounting estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue recognition. For transactions in our ecommerce marketplaces, which generate substantially all of our revenue, we recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met: a buyer submits the winning bid in an auction and, as a result, evidence of an arrangement exists, and the sale price has been determined; the buyer has assumed risks and rewards of ownership; and collection is reasonably assured. Most of our sales are recorded subsequent to receipt of payment authorization, utilizing credit cards, wire transfers and PayPal, an Internet based payment system, as methods of payments. As a result, we are not subject to significant collection risk, as goods are generally not shipped before payment is received. Fee revenue is principally revenue earned under the consignment model, and is presented separately as it accounts for more than 10% of total revenue. Transactions are also evaluated to determine whether we should report gross proceeds as revenue, for example, when we act as the principal in the arrangement, or if we should report revenue as our net commissions, for example, when we act as an agent. In arrangements in which we are deemed to be the primary obligor, bear physical and general inventory risk, and credit risk, we recognize as revenue the gross proceeds from the sale, including buyers premiums. In arrangements in which we act as an agent or broker on a consignment basis, without taking general or physical inventory risk, revenue is recognized based on the sales commissions that are paid to us by the sellers for utilizing our services; in this situation, sales commissions represent a percentage of the gross proceeds from the sale that the seller pays to us upon completion of the transaction. We have evaluated our revenue recognition policy related to sales under our purchase transaction model and determined it is appropriate to account for these sales on a gross basis. The following factors were most heavily relied upon in our determination: We are the primary obligor in the arrangement. 25 We are the seller in substance and in appearance to the buyer; the buyer contacts us if there is a problem with the purchase. Only we and the buyer are parties to the sales contract and the buyer has no recourse to the supplier. If the buyer has a problem, he or she looks to us, not the supplier. The buyer does not and cannot look to the supplier for fulfillment or for product acceptability concerns. We have general inventory risk. We take title to the inventory upon paying the amount set forth in the contract with the supplier. Such amount is generally a percentage of the suppliers original acquisition cost and varies depending on the type of the inventory purchased or a fixed nominal amount under our Scrap contract. We are at risk of loss for all amounts paid to the supplier in the event the property is damaged or otherwise becomes unsaleable. In addition, under the previous Scrap contract, as payments made for inventory were excluded from the calculation for the profit-sharing distribution under our DoD contracts, we effectively bore inventory risk for the full amount paid to acquire the property ( i.e. , there was no sharing of inventory risk). The amount of our revenue that was generated outside of the U.S. for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was 13.4% and 13.3%, respectively. Inventory. Inventory consists of products available for sale and is valued at net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments based on currently available information about expected recoverable value. Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets. We identify and value intangible assets that we acquire in business combinations, such as customer arrangements, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, that arise from contractual or other legal rights or that are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. The fair value of identified intangible assets is based upon an estimate of the future economic benefits expected to result from ownership, which represents the amount at which the assets could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. We test our goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. Examples of such events or circumstances could include a significant change in business climate, a loss of significant sellers or buyers, or a significant decline in stock price. We make a qualitative evaluation about the likelihood of goodwill impairment to determine whether we should calculate the fair value of a reporting unit. If our evaluation indicates a likelihood of goodwill impairment, we apply a two-step fair value-based test to assess goodwill for impairment of our four reporting units, which are the same as our four operating segments (RSCG, CAG, GovDeals, and IronDirect). The first step compares the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we perform the second step, which compares the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill to the implied fair value of the goodwill. If the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss would be recorded in our statements of operations. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are also reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be realizable. Our management makes certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine the fair value of net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. The valuations employ a combination of present value techniques to measure fair value, corroborated by comparisons to estimated market multiples. These valuations are based on a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgments about the appropriate discount rates, terminal growth rates, weighted average costs of capital, exit multiples, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The judgments used in determining the fair value of our reporting units are based on significant unobservable inputs which causes the determination of the implied fair value of goodwill to fall within level three of the GAAP fair value hierarchy. The cash flows employed in the discounted cash flow analysis are based on the most recent budgets, forecasts, and business plans as well as various growth rate assumptions for years beyond the current business plan period. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future revenue streams and cash flows of the reporting unit. Various factors, including the failure to successfully implement our business plan for any of our reporting units, as well as other factors beyond our control, could have a negative effect on the fair value of such reporting unit, and increase the risk of further impairments of goodwill in the future. A reporting unit represents a component of an operating segment that (a) constitutes a business, (b) has discrete financial information, and (c) its performance is reviewed by management. During fiscal year 2016 we concluded we had five 26 reporting units-RSCG, CAG, GovDeals, TruckCenter, and IronDirect. On January 30, 2017, we decided to exit certain TruckCenter operations in order to focus our time and resources on our ecommerce marketplace strategy. As a result, as of December 31, 2017, we have four reporting units. We will continue to sell trucks and related equipment through our other ecommerce marketplaces. As part of our fiscal year 2017 annual impairment assessment performed as of July 1, 2017, we believed that certain events required performing a step one evaluation of goodwill to identify potential impairment. As a result of the step one test, we determined that our reporting units with goodwill had fair values as of September 30, 2017, that substantially exceeded their respective book values. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we did not identify any indicators of impairment. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets, which totaled $45.9 million at December 31, 2017. Such events may include strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our base of buyers and sellers or material negative changes in our relationships with material customers. Income taxes. We account for income taxes using the asset and liability approach for measuring deferred taxes based on temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities existing at each balance sheet date using enacted tax rates for the years in which the taxes are expected to be paid or recovered. We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe that these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence to estimate whether future taxable income will be generated to permit use of the existing deferred tax asset. A significant piece of subjective negative evidence evaluated was the cumulative loss incurred over the three-year period ended September 30, 2017, and projected losses in the near-term future. Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence, such as our projections for future growth. On the basis of the evaluation, we recorded a charge of $10.1 million to our valuation allowance during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a reduction to our valuation allowance of $10.3 million. The reduction is comprised of $10.3 million for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets at the newly enacted tax rate and $1.7 million for the recognition of tax credits resulting from the repeal of the alternative minimum tax, netted against a charge of $1.7 million of net operating losses generated in the first quarter. We apply the authoritative guidance related to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. A benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of the technical merits. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we did not identify new uncertain tax benefits. We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of federal and state tax liabilities. These estimates include, among other items, effective rates for state and local income taxes, estimates related to depreciation and amortization expense allowable for tax purposes, and the tax deductibility of certain other items. Our estimates are based on the information available to us at the time we prepare the income tax provision. We generally file our annual income tax returns several months after our fiscal year-end. Income tax returns are subject to audit by federal, state and local governments, generally years after the returns are filed. These returns could be subject to material adjustments or differing interpretations of the tax laws. Stock-based compensation. We recognize all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, in the statements of operations based on their estimated fair values. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model as well as a Monte Carlo simulation to estimate the fair values of certain share-based payments. The above list is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting estimates. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with little need for managements judgment in their application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. See our audited financial statements and related notes, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP. Components of Revenue and Expenses Revenue. We generate a large portion of our revenue from the proceeds of sales of merchandise held in inventory. We also generate commission revenue from sales in our marketplaces of merchandise that is owned by others. Our revenue recognition practices are discussed in more detail in the section above entitled Critical Accounting Estimates . 27 Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold includes the costs of purchasing and transporting property for auction, as well as credit card transaction fees. Seller distributions. Under the current Scrap contract, we acquire scrap property from the DLA for resale and pay the DLA a revenue-sharing payment equal to 64.5% of the gross resale proceeds. We bear all of the costs for the sorting, merchandising and sale of the property. Our previous Scrap contract with the DoD was structured as a profit-sharing arrangement in which we purchased and took possession of all goods we received from the DoD at a contractual price per pound. After deducting allowable operating expenses, we disbursed to the DoD on a monthly basis a percentage of the profits of the aggregate monthly sales. We retained the remaining percentage of these profits after the DoDs disbursement. Technology and operations. Technology expenses consist primarily of the cost of technical staff who develop, deploy, and maintain our marketplaces and corporate infrastructure. These personnel also develop and upgrade the software systems that support our operations, such as sales processing. Technology expenses also includes certain costs associated with our LiquidityOne platform. Because our marketplaces and support systems require frequent upgrades and enhancements to maintain viability, we have determined that the useful life for certain internally developed software is less than one year. As a result, we expense those costs as incurred. However, where we determine that the useful life of the internally developed software will be greater than one year, we capitalize development costs in accordance with ASC 350. As such, we are capitalizing certain development costs associated with our LiquidityOne platform. At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that a seller and buyer management module of the LiquidityOne platform was ready for its intended use. As such, we began amortizing the associated capitalized costs during the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we launched our Network International energy marketplace on the new LiquidityOne platform. As such, we determined that additional modules of the LiquidityOne platform were ready for their intended use, and began amortizing the associated capitalized costs during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed development of our new Return to Vendor ("RTV") module of the LiquidityOne platform, and began amortizing the associated capitalized costs during the quarter. Operations expenses consist primarily of operating costs, including buyer relations, shipping logistics and distribution center operating costs. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses include the cost of our sales and marketing personnel as well as the cost of marketing and promotional activities. These activities include online marketing campaigns such as paid search advertising. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses include all corporate and administrative functions that support our operations and provide an infrastructure to facilitate our future growth. Components of these expenses include executive management and staff salaries, bonuses and related taxes and employee benefits; travel; headquarters rent and related occupancy costs; and legal and accounting fees. The salaries, bonus and employee benefits costs included as general and administrative expenses are generally more fixed in nature than our operating expenses and do not vary directly with the volume of merchandise sold through our marketplaces. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expenses consist primarily of the depreciation and amortization of amounts recorded in connection with the purchase of furniture, fixtures and equipment and amortization of intangible assets from our acquisitions. Other operating expenses (income). Other operating expenses (income) includes the change in fair value of financial assets and liabilities, as well as business realignment expenses, including those associated with restructuring initiatives and the exit of certain business operations. Interest and other (income) expense, net. Interest and other (income) expense, net, consists of interest income on the note receivable related to the sale of the Jacobs Trading business, impacts of foreign currency fluctuations, and gains and losses on the sale of fixed assets. Income taxes. For interim income tax reporting, the Company estimates its annual effective tax rate and applies this effective tax rate to its year to date pre-tax (loss) income. The Companys effective income tax rate before discrete items was -5.8% for the three months ended December 31, 2017. The 2018 effective tax rate differed from the statutory federal rate of 24.53% primarily as a result of the valuation allowance charge for fiscal 2017 and the impact of foreign, state, and local income taxes and permanent tax adjustments. 28 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, selected statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses from operations: Cost of goods sold 45.2 45.7 Seller distributions 5.4 6.4 Technology and operations 29.6 30.9 Sales and marketing 13.6 14.1 General and administrative 12.4 13.9 Depreciation and amortization 2.0 2.0 Other operating expenses (income) 2.4 (1.3 ) Total costs and expenses 110.6 111.7 Loss from operations (10.6 ) (11.7 ) Interest and other (income) expense, net (0.7 ) (Loss) before provision for income taxes (9.9 ) (11.7 ) (Benefit) provision for income taxes (7.9 ) 0.2 Net loss (2.0 )% (11.9 )% 29 The following table presents segment revenue, gross profit, and gross profit margin for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 2016 GovDeals: Total revenue $ 7,040 $ 5,813 Gross profit 6,543 5,438 Gross profit margin 92.9 % 93.5 % CAG: Total revenue 32,063 42,506 Gross profit 17,603 21,202 Gross profit margin 54.9 % 49.9 % RSCG: Total revenue 20,485 21,411 Gross profit 6,728 7,002 Gross profit margin 32.8 % 32.7 % Corporate & Other: Total revenue 1,555 1,065 Gross profit (675 ) 335 Gross profit margin (43.4 )% 31.5 % Consolidated: Total revenue 61,143 70,796 Gross profit $ 30,199 $ 33,977 Gross profit margin 49.4 % 48.0 % Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 Segment Results GovDeals. Revenue from our GovDeals segment increased 21.1% , or $1.2 million , due to additional sales volume from existing clients and an increase in the number of new sellers. GMV from this segment increased 26.8% , or $15.1 million , also due to additional sales volume from existing clients and an increase in the number of new sellers. Gross profit within this segment increased 20.3% , or $1.1 million , to $6.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $5.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, due to the new business. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit slightly decreased to 92.9%, from 93.5% in the prior year. Gross profit is calculated as total revenue less cost of goods sold and client distributions. CAG. Revenue from our CAG segment decreased 24.6% , or $10.4 million , due to a lower volume of goods sold under our Surplus Contract, and a change in mix of commodities to lower value commodities sold under our Scrap contract. Also contributing to the decrease in revenue is lower service revenue related to our Surplus contract, as well as a decrease in revenue within our CAG Commercial business. GMV from our CAG segment decreased 29.4% , or $22.4 million , due to a lower volume of goods sold under our Surplus Contract, a change in mix of commodities to lower value commodities sold under our Scrap contract, as well as a decrease in GMV related to our CAG Commercial business. Gross profit within the CAG segment decreased 17.0% , or $3.6 million , to $17.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $21.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. This decrease can primarily be attributed to the lower volume of goods sold under our Surplus Contract, a change in mix of commodities to lower value commodities sold under our Scrap Contract, and lower service revenue under the Surplus Contract. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit increased to 54.9%, from 49.9%. RSCG. Revenue from our RSCG segment decreased 4.3% , or $0.9 million . The decrease in revenue is driven by the change in mix from purchase model to consignment model transactions. GMV from our RSCG segment increased 16.9% , or 30 $4.2 million over fiscal 2016. The increase in GMV is attributable to increased sales under our consignment model during fiscal 2018. The overall decrease in revenue, but increase in GMV is due to a change in mix from purchase to consignment model transactions. Gross profit within the RSCG segment decreased 3.9% , or $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, due to the decrease in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit slightly increased to 32.8%, from 32.7%. Corporate & Other. Revenue from Corporate & Other primarily relates to IronDirect and certain TruckCenter operations. The decrease in revenue of $0.5 million is largely made up of the decreases in revenue related to our decision to exit certain TruckCenter operations in January 2017, partially offset by increases in revenue from IronDirect. Gross profit within Corporate & Other decreased $1.0 million over prior year, mostly attributable to a $0.6 million inventory reserve within IronDirect during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and $0.3 million of gross profit related to our Truckcenter operations during the three months ended December 31, 2017, which we subsequently exited. Consolidated Results Total Revenue. Total consolidated revenue decreased $9.7 million , or 13.7% , to $61.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $70.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to a $10.4 million decrease in revenue from our CAG segment, a $0.9 million decrease in revenue from our RSCG segment, partially offset by a $1.2 million increase in revenue from our GovDeals segment. Total consolidated GMV decreased $4.3 million, or 2.8%, to $155.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $159.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to a $22.4 million decrease in GMV from our CAG segment, a $1.2 million decrease within Corporate & Other, partially offset by a $15.1 million increase in GMV from our GovDeals segment, and a $4.2 million increase in GMV from our RSCG segment. Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold decreased $4.7 million , or 14.6% , to $27.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $32.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Approximately $4.3 million of this decrease is attributable to a lower volume of sales under our Surplus Contract during the three months ended December 31, 2017. In line with these changes, cost of goods sold slightly decreased to 45.2% of revenue, from 45.7%. Seller distributions. Seller distributions decreased $1.2 million , or 26.7% , to $3.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $4.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, due to lower sales under our Scrap Contract during the three months ended December 31, 2017. As a percentage of revenue, seller distributions decreased to 5.4% , from 6.4%. Technology and operations expenses. Technology and operations expenses decreased $3.8 million , or 17.4% , to $18.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $21.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, due to a decrease in staff costs of approximately $3.4 million, partially the result of business realignment activities. As a percentage of revenue, technology and operations expenses decreased to 29.6% , from 30.9%. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.7 million , or 17.0% , to $8.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $10.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, due to decreases in staff cost of approximately $1.2 million, as well as lower marketing and promotional expenses. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses decreased to 13.6% , from 14.1% in the prior year. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $2.3 million , or 23.2% , to $7.6 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $9.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Included within this decrease are reductions in overall staff cost of approximately $1.2 million, partially the result of business realignment activities, as well as lower non-income tax regulatory costs, and a decrease in certain lease costs. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses decreased to 12.4% , from 13.9% in the prior year. Depreciation and amortization expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $0.2 million , or 14.3% , to $1.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from $1.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Other operating expenses (income). Other operating expenses (income) reflected an expense of approximately $1.5 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017, which consisted of approximately $1.3 million of restructuring cost (for further information, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report), and a $0.1 million loss on the value of a right the Company holds from its participation in certain principal transactions in the Company's CAG business. In the three months ended December 31, 2016, Other operating expenses (income) reflected income of $0.9 million, which 31 represented a gain on the value of a right the Company holds from its participation in certain principal transactions in the Company's CAG business. Interest and other (income) expense, net. Interest and other (income) expense, net, increased $0.4 million over prior year, consisting of a gain on sale of equipment of approximately $0.3 million, and $0.1 million of interest income on our note receivable. (Benefit) provision for income taxes . (Benefit) provision for income taxes increased $4.9 million, to a benefit of $4.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, from a provision of $0.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, due to a decrease in the deferred tax balance resulting from the newly enacted lower corporate tax rate, a reduction to the valuation allowance, and the impact of foreign, state, and local taxes and permanent tax adjustments. Net loss. Net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $1.2 million , compared to $8.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary cash needs have been working capital (including capital used for inventory purchases), which we have funded primarily through cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $96.8 million in cash. Throughout the quarter, we have continued to advance the design and development of our LiquidityOne platform, services and analytical tools to empower our clients to maximize bottom-line return, and transform their supply chain into a high-performing business function. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we launched our Network International energy marketplace on the new LiquidityOne platform, and during fiscal 2018, we plan to launch further marketplaces onto the platform. We will continue to incur additional costs throughout the duration of this initiative to implement the new platform and educate our employees and clients about the initiative. The effects of the international provisions of the Tax Cuts and Job Act (the Act), which establish a territorial tax system and subject certain foreign earnings on which US tax is currently deferred to a one-time transition tax is uncertain. Based on a preliminary analysis, the Company has not recorded any provisional amounts in the financial statements for the three months ending December 31, 2017 and will re-evaluate its existing accounting position to indefinitely reinvest unremitted foreign earnings. The amount of such unremitted foreign earnings was approximately $8.4 million as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, and September 30, 2017, approximately $17.4 million and $14.9 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents was held overseas We are authorized to repurchase issued and outstanding shares of our common stock under a share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors. Share repurchases may be made through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. The repurchase program may be discontinued or suspended at any time, and will be funded using our available cash. We did not repurchase shares under this program during the three months ended December 31, 2017 or 2016. As of December 31, 2017, we may repurchase an additional $10.1 million in shares under this program. Most of our sales are recorded subsequent to receipt of payment authorization, utilizing credit cards, wire transfers and PayPal, an Internet based payment system, as methods of payments. As a result, we are not subject to significant collection risk, as goods are generally not shipped before payment is received. Changes in Cash Flows: Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, as compared to net cash used by operating activities of $5.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. The $8.5 million increase in cash provided by operations between periods was attributable to improved profitability as well as working capital improvements primarily from collections of receivables and sales of inventory. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, and $2.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2017 consisted primarily of expenditures for capitalized software, purchases of equipment, and leasehold improvements. Net cash provided by financing activities was zero for the three months ended December 31, 2017, and net cash provided by financing activities was $0.03 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Net cash provided by 32 financing activities for the three months ended December 31, 2016 consisted primarily of proceeds from the exercise of common stock options. Capital Expenditures. Our capital expenditures consist primarily of capitalized software, computers and purchased software, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, and leasehold improvements. Capitalized software includes costs associated with our LiquidityOne platform. The timing and volume of such capital expenditures in the future will be affected by the addition of new customers or expansion of existing customer relationships. We intend to fund those expenditures primarily from operating cash flows. Our capital expenditures for the three months ended December 31, 2017 were $1.0 million. As of December 31, 2017, we had no outstanding commitments for capital expenditures. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the development and deployment of new marketplaces, the introduction of new value-added services and the costs to establish additional distribution centers. Although we are currently not a party to any definitive agreement with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased interest expense and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. There is no assurance that such financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any transactions, obligations or relationships that could be considered material off-balance sheet arrangements.