Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include but are not limited to the factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2024, and subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, could, would, expects, intends, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, continues or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. There may be other factors of which we are currently unaware or deem immaterial that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this document and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained elsewhere in this document. Overview About us. Liquidity Services is a leading global commerce company providing trusted online marketplace platforms that power the circular economy. We create a better future for organizations, individuals, and the planet by using technology to capture and unleash the intrinsic value of surplus. We connect millions of buyers and thousands of sellers through our leading e-commerce auction marketplaces, search engines, asset management and auction software, and related services. Our comprehensive solutions enable the transparent, efficient, sustainable recovery of value from excess items owned by business and government sellers. Our business delivers value to shareholders by unleashing the intrinsic value of surplus through our online marketplace platforms. These platforms ignite and enable a self-reinforcing cycle of value creation where buyers and sellers attract one another in greater numbers. The result of this cycle is a continuous flow of goods that becomes increasingly valuable as more participants join the platforms, thereby creating positive network effects that benefit sellers, buyers, and shareholders. Reportable Segments The Company has five operating segments and three reportable segments under which we conduct business: GovDeals, Retail Supply Chain Group (RSCG), and Capital Assets Group (CAG). Our separate Machinio and Software Solutions operating segments, which do not individually meet the quantitative thresholds to be reportable segments, are combined and presented together as Machinio & Software Solutions for segment reporting purposes. Further information and operating results of our reportable segments can be found in Note 14 - Segment Information. GovDeals. The GovDeals reportable segment provides solutions that enable government entities including city, county, state and federal agencies located in the United States and Canada and related commercial businesses to sell surplus property and real estate assets through its GovDeals, Bid4Assets and Sierra marketplaces; see Note 3 - Acquisitions. RSCG. The RSCG reportable segment consists of marketplaces that enable corporations located in the United States and Canada to sell excess, returned, and overstocked consumer goods. RSCG also offers a suite of services that includes returns management, asset recovery, and e-commerce solutions. This segment uses multiple selling channels across our network of marketplaces and others to optimize the best combination of velocity, volume, and value. This segment primarily conducts its business-to-business sales on its Liquidation.com marketplace and through Direct Sales, and direct-to-consumer sales on its AllSurplus Deals and Secondipity marketplaces and other third-party sales channels. CAG. The CAG reportable segment enables commercial businesses to sell surplus assets on our AllSurplus marketplace. The core verticals in which CAG operates include industrial manufacturing, oil and gas, heavy equipment, biopharma, and electronics. CAG also offers a suite of services that includes surplus management, asset valuation, asset sales and marketing. CAG benefits from a global base of buyers and sellers enabling the sale and redeployment of assets wherever theyre most likely to generate the best value and highest use across the world. This segment primarily uses the AllSurplus and GovDeals marketplaces. 20 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Machinio & Software Solutions. The Machinio operating segment operates the Machinio marketplace, a global search engine platform for listing equipment for sale in the construction, machine tool, processing, transportation, printing, agriculture, and laboratory/medical sectors, and the Machinio System platform that provides equipment sellers with a suite of software tools including website hosting, email marketing, and inventory management, to support and enable equipment sellers online business. The Software Solutions operating segment separately serves as the Company's private-label and software-as-a-service (SaaS) arm, offering scalable auction platform services to entrepreneurs and businesses. Macroeconomic Conditions Tariffs and other trade barriers. A number of countries have implemented, or are actively considering, measures affecting cross-border trade. Such actions may impact both our buyers and sellers as well as the availability of assets to list on our marketplaces. Ongoing developments related to the timing, scope and application of tariffs, including changes in tariff rates, the range of affected goods, and the countries subject to such measures, remain fluid and subject to rapid and unpredictable change. Tariffs imposed by the U.S., as well as retaliatory tariffs by other countries on U.S. exports, could adversely affect international commerce and our business. Supply chain challenges and consumer sentiment. The supply of used vehicles available for sale on our marketplaces may be impacted by ongoing tariffs implemented, or actively being considered, by the U.S., as well as the slowing adoption of electric vehicles as a replacement to internal combustion vehicle fleets. Further, used car market price indices continue to experience heightened volatility. In addition, general consumer behavior can be turbulent, and changes in consumer sentiment can cause fluctuation in the mix, volumes, and demand for the products we receive. Change in these conditions or other challenges that may emerge in other key asset categories can impact our financial performance. Effects of inflation and heightened interest rates. Inflation in both the U.S. and internationally has weighed on the global economy, increasing prices for energy, shipping, and labor, among other areas of the macroeconomic environment. These events have caused a rise in borrowing costs as well, partly driven by actions taken by central banks to curb rising inflation, which has impacted buyer qualification and transaction timelines. Currently, the Company is unable to predict the likelihood, magnitude, and timing of inflationary risk to our business, if any. As a marketplace operator, the GMV, revenues and costs of revenues that result from our primarily auction-based sales may be influenced by macroeconomic factors, including but not limited to inflation, the impacts of which may vary across each of our individual asset classes. International armed and geopolitical conflicts. The global financial markets have experienced volatility subsequent to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia in February 2022, a conflict which remains ongoing, as well as the ongoing conflict in and adjacent to Israel. The Russia-Ukraine conflict specifically resulted in numerous countries, including the United States, imposing significant new sanctions and export controls against Russia, Russian banks, and certain Russian individuals. These sanctions and export controls and international responses to the ongoing conflict in and adjacent to Israel, have further heightened global supply chain disruptions and impacted the international trade markets. For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, the Company's total revenues directly associated with Russia, Ukraine, and Israel were not material to our condensed consolidated financial results. We will continue monitoring these armed and geopolitical conflicts around the world and any potential future impacts on our business. Industry Trends We believe there are several industry trends positively impacting the long-term growth of our business including: the increase in volume of returned merchandise handled both online and in stores as online and omni-channel retail grow as a percentage of overall retail sales; the increase in government regulations and the need for corporations to have sustainability solutions with verifiable recycling and remarketing of surplus assets; the increase in outsourcing surplus disposition and end-of-life assets by corporations and government entities as they focus on reducing costs, improving transparency, compliance and working capital, and increasingly prefer service providers with proven track records, innovative scalable solutions and the ability to make a strategic impact in the reverse supply chain; an increase in buyer demand for surplus merchandise as consumers aspire to make more environmentally conscious decisions, while also seeking greater value through purchasing less expensive goods, both of which could impact our long-term growth; the increase in demand from sellers and buyers to transact in an online solution ensuring assets are sold for fair market value; and in the long-term we expect innovation in the retail supply chain will increase the pace of product obsolescence and, therefore, increase the supply of surplus assets. 21 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Our Marketplace Transactions We believe our marketplaces benefit over time from greater scale and adoption by our users creating a continuous flow of goods benefiting our buyers and sellers. As of June 30, 2025, we had 5.9 million registered buyers in our marketplaces. We had access to millions of additional end-users through a range of external consumer marketplaces. Aggregating this level of buyer demand and market data enables us to generate a continuous flow of goods from corporate and government sellers, which in turn attracts more buyers. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2025, the approximate number of registered buyers increased from 5.4 million to 5.9 million, or approximately 9%. As buyers continue to discover and use our e-commerce marketplaces as an effective method to source assets, we believe our solutions become a more attractive sales channel for corporate and government agency sellers. We believe this self-reinforcing cycle results in greater transaction volume and enhances the value of our marketplaces. Revenues Substantially all of our revenue is earned through the following transaction models: Purchase model. Under our purchase transaction model, we recognize revenue within the Purchase revenues line-item on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations from the resale of inventory that we purchased from sellers. We consider these sellers to be our vendors. We pay our sellers either a fixed amount or a portion of the net or gross proceeds received from our completed sales based on the value we receive from the sale, in some cases, after deducting a required return to us that we have negotiated with the seller. Because we are the principal in purchase transaction model sales, we recognize as revenue the sale price paid by the buyer upon completion of a transaction. The proceeds paid by buyers also include transaction fees, referred to as buyer premiums. Consignment modelfee revenue. Under our consignment transaction model, we enable our sellers to sell goods they own in our marketplaces, and we charge them a commission fee based on the gross or net proceeds received from such sales. The revenue from our consignment transaction model is recognized upon auction close or upon collection of auction proceeds, depending upon the settlement service level selected by the seller. Revenue under the consignment model is recorded within the Consignment and other fee revenues line-item on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Because we are the agent in consignment model sales, our commission fee revenue, which we refer to as seller commissions, represents a percentage of the sales price the buyer pays upon completion of a transaction. We vary the percentage amount of the seller commission depending on the various value-added services we provide to the seller to facilitate the transaction. For example, we generally increase the percentage amount of the commission if we take possession, handle, ship, or provide enhanced product information for the merchandise. In most cases we collect the seller commission by deducting the appropriate amount from the sales proceeds prior to the distribution to the seller after completion of the transaction. In addition to seller commissions, we also collect buyer premiums. Other fee revenue. We also earn non-consignment fee revenue from our Machinio and Software Solution subscription services, auction listing service fees for foreclosed real estate at our GovDeals segment (payable regardless of whether or not an auction is completed), as well as other services including asset valuation, product handling, and storage fees. Non-consignment fee revenue is recorded within the Consignment and other fee revenues line-item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Transaction Model Mix. Most of our transactions are conducted under the consignment model, which represented 82.5% and 80.9% of our consolidated GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, and 86.5% and 86.0% of our consolidated GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2024. However, only the consignment fee, representing a small portion of the consignment GMV, is recognized as revenue, causing consignment revenues to account for 30.0% and 28.1% of our total revenues for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, and 35.9% and 36.5% of our total revenues for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2024, respectively. Purchase model transactions are a smaller proportion of our consolidated GMV, representing 17.5% and 19.1% of our consolidated GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, and 13.5% and 14.0% of our consolidated GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2024, respectively. However, all of the GMV associated with the purchase model transaction is generally able to be recognized as revenue, causing purchase revenues to account for 63.8% and 66.1% of our total revenues for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, and 57.0% and 55.7% of our total revenues for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2024. In assessing buyer concentration risk, we consider a number of quantitative factors, which can include the buyer's proportionate share of our consolidated GMV, revenues and direct profit, including any impacts based upon the transaction model mix they purchase. We also consider qualitative factors, such as the level of differentiation in the products sold and whether there are alterative buyers accessible in the market, among other relevant factors. For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, we were not dependent on any single buyer in a manner material to our business. We have multiple vendor contracts with Amazon.com, Inc. under which we acquire and sell commercial merchandise. While purchase model transactions account for less than 25% of our total GMV, the cost of inventory for purchase model transactions is the most significant component of our consolidated Costs of goods sold. $12.4 million and $12.2 million of inventory purchased under such contracts with Amazon.com, Inc. is included in our Condensed Consolidated Inventory balances as of June 30, 2025 and September 30, 2024, respectively. Our vendor contracts with respect to sourcing or consigning merchandise for our RSCG segment generally reflect the concentration dynamics inherent to the retail industry. Other fee revenues accounted for 6.2% and 5.8% of our total revenues for three and nine months ended June 30, 2025, respectively, and 7.1% and 7.8% of our total revenues for three and nine months ended June 30, 2024, respectively. 22 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Key Business Metrics Our management periodically reviews certain key business metrics for operational planning purposes and to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies, allocation of resources, and our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. These key business metrics include: Gross merchandise volume (GMV). GMV is the total sales value of all merchandise sold by us or our sellers through our marketplaces or by us through other channels during a given period of time. We review GMV because it provides a measure of the volume of goods being sold in our marketplaces and thus the activity of those marketplaces. GMV also provides a means to evaluate the effectiveness of investments that we have made and continue to make, including in the areas of buyer and seller support, value-added services, product development, sales and marketing, and operations. Our GMV for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2025, was $413.0 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, increasing from the three and nine months ended June 30, 2024 by $32.6 million, or 8.6%, and $160.8 million, or 16.0%, respectively. Total registered buyers. We grow our buyer base through a combination of marketing and promotional efforts. A person becomes a registered buyer by completing an online registration process on one of our marketplaces. As part of this process, we collect business and personal information, including name, title, company name, business address, contact information, and information on how the person intends to use our marketplaces. Each prospective buyer must also accept our terms and conditions of use. Following the completion of the online registration process, we verify each prospective buyers e-mail address and confirm that the person is not listed on any banned persons list maintained internally or by the U.S. federal government. After the verification process, which is completed generally within 24 hours, the registration is approved and activated, and the prospective buyer is added to our registered buyer list. Total registered buyers, as of a given date, represent the aggregate number of persons or entities who have registered on one of our marketplaces. We use this metric to evaluate how well our marketing and promotional efforts are performing. Total registered buyers exclude duplicate registrations, buyers who are suspended from utilizing our marketplaces and buyers who have voluntarily removed themselves from our registration database. In addition, if we become aware of registered buyers that are no longer in business, we remove them from our database. As of June 30, 2025 and 2024, we had 5.9 million and 5.4 million registered buyers, respectively. Total auction participants. For each auction we manage, the number of auction participants represents the total number of registered buyers who have bid one or more times in that auction. As a result, a registered buyer who bids, or participates, in more than one auction is counted as an auction participant in each auction in which he or she participates. Thus, total auction participants for a given period is the sum of the auction participants in each auction conducted during that period. We use this metric to allow us to compare our online auction marketplaces to our competitors, including other online auction sites and traditional on-site auctioneers. In addition, we measure total auction participants on a periodic basis to evaluate the activity level of our base of registered buyers and to measure the performance of our marketing and promotional efforts. During the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, 1,098,000 and 1,016,000 participants participated in auctions on our marketplaces, respectively. During the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, approximately 3,040,000 and 3,003,000 participants participated in auctions on our marketplaces, respectively. Completed transactions. Completed transactions represents the number of auctions in a given period from which we have recorded revenue. Similar to GMV, we believe that completed transactions is a key business metric because it provides an additional measurement of the volume of activity flowing through our marketplaces. During the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, we completed 286,000 and 263,000 transactions, respectively. During the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2025, we completed 797,000 and 802,000 transactions, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company's critical accounting policies and estimates are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2024, and in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Components of Revenue and Expenses Revenue. Refer to the discussion in the Our revenue section above, and to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Annual Report onForm 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2024, for discussion of the Company's related accounting policies. Cost of goods sold (excludes depreciation and amortization). Refer to the discussion in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2024, for discussion ofthe Company's Costs of goods sold and related accounting policies. 23 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Technology and operations. Technology expenses primarily consist of the cost of technical staff (including stock compensation), third-party services, licenses, and infrastructure, all as required to develop, configure, deploy, maintain, and secure our marketplace platforms, business operational systems, and facilities. Technology expenses are net of the required capitalization of costs associated with enhancing our marketplace platforms and other software development activities. Depreciation and amortization of capitalized software development costs, purchased software, acquired developed software intangible assets, and computer hardware are included within Depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Technology expenses are presented separately from Costs of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as these expenses provide for the general availability of our marketplace platforms and other business operational systems and are not attributable to specific revenue generating transaction activity occurring on our marketplaces. Because our marketplaces and support systems require frequent upgrades and enhancements to maintain viability, we have determined that the useful life for certain internally developed software is less than one year. As a result, we expense those costs as incurred. However, where we determine that the useful life of the internally developed software will be greater than one year, we capitalize development costs in accordance with ASC 350-40, Internal-use software. As such, we are capitalizing certain development costs associated with our marketplaces and support systems, as well as other software development activities. Operations expenses consist primarily of costs to operate our network of warehouses, including shipping logistics, inventory management, refurbishment, and administrative functions; costs to enhance our online auctions listings and provide customer support; and costs associated with field support and preparation and transfer of goods from sellers to buyers. Operations expenses include both internal and external labor costs, as well as other third-party charges. These costs are expensed as incurred. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses include the cost of our sales and marketing personnel as well as the cost of lead generation, marketing and promotional activities, including buyer and seller acquisition, as well as general brand marketing. These activities include online marketing campaigns, such as paid search advertising and geofencing campaigns, as well as offline marketing efforts, trade shows, and marketing analytics. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses include all corporate and administrative functions that support our operations and provide an infrastructure to facilitate our future growth. These expenses are generally more fixed in nature than our other operating expenses and do not vary as significantly in response to the volume of merchandise sold through our marketplaces. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization consist of depreciation of property and equipment, amortization of internally developed software, and amortization of intangible assets. Other operating expenses, net. Other operating expenses, net includes acquisition-related costs, impairment of long-lived and other assets, impacts of lease terminations, as well as business realignment expenses, including those associated with restructuring initiatives and the exit of certain business operations. Interest and other income, net. Interest and other income, net consists of interest income on interest-bearing checking accounts, money market funds, interest and unused commitment fees in connection with the Company's Credit Agreement, the components of net periodic pension cost (benefit) other than the service component and impacts of foreign currency fluctuations. Income taxes. Income taxes include current and deferred income tax expense for the U.S. federal, state, and foreign jurisdictions. For interim income tax reporting, we estimate our annual effective tax rate and apply this effective tax rate to our year-to-date pre-tax income. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our consolidated operating results: 24 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Three months ended June 30, Change Nine Months Ended June 30, Change (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % 2025 2024 $ % Purchase revenues $ 76,517 $ 53,396 $ 23,121 43.3 % $ 237,159 $ 142,726 $ 94,433 66.2 % Consignment and other fee revenues 43,358 40,217 3,141 7.8 % 121,422 113,665 7,757 6.8 % Total revenue 119,875 93,613 26,262 28.1 % 358,581 256,391 102,190 39.9 % Costs and expenses from operations: Cost of goods sold (excludes depreciation and amortization) 65,110 44,212 20,898 47.3 % 206,220 119,960 86,260 71.9 % Technology and operations 17,275 15,372 1,903 12.4 % 51,565 45,136 6,429 14.2 % Sales and marketing 15,694 13,759 1,935 14.1 % 44,278 40,934 3,344 8.2 % General and administrative 8,221 8,603 (382 ) (4.4 )% 23,596 23,846 (250 ) (1.0 )% Depreciation and amortization 2,657 3,199 (542 ) (16.9 )% 7,741 9,297 (1,556 ) (16.7 )% Other operating expenses 700 573 127 22.1 % 1,073 1,080 (7 ) (0.7 )% Total costs and expenses 109,657 85,718 23,939 27.9 % 334,473 240,253 94,220 39.2 % Income from operations 10,218 7,895 2,323 29.4 % 24,108 16,138 7,970 49.4 % Interest and other income, net (1,077 ) (807 ) (270 ) 33.5 % (3,083 ) (2,549 ) (534 ) 21.0 % Income before provision for income taxes 11,295 8,702 2,593 29.8 % 27,191 18,687 8,504 45.5 % Provision for income taxes 3,885 2,702 1,183 43.8 % 6,920 5,071 1,849 36.5 % Net income $ 7,410 $ 6,000 $ 1,410 23.5 % $ 20,271 $ 13,616 $ 6,655 48.9 % NM = not meaningful The following table presents reportable segment GMV, revenue, segment direct profit (calculated as total revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization)), and segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 2025 2024 GovDeals: GMV $ 252,291 $ 249,652 $ 667,761 $ 626,285 Total revenue $ 23,966 $ 22,109 $ 63,725 $ 56,384 Segment direct profit $ 22,160 $ 20,716 $ 58,688 $ 52,982 Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue 92.5 % 93.7 % 92.1 % 94.0 % RSCG: GMV $ 102,556 $ 78,950 $ 315,170 $ 225,145 Total revenue $ 81,544 $ 58,764 $ 251,917 $ 159,299 Segment direct profit $ 19,371 $ 17,365 $ 54,434 $ 48,478 Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue 23.8 % 29.6 % 21.6 % 30.4 % CAG: GMV $ 58,160 $ 51,838 $ 183,509 $ 154,245 Total revenue $ 9,161 $ 8,650 $ 28,604 $ 28,764 Segment direct profit $ 8,460 $ 7,430 $ 25,909 $ 23,611 Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue 92.4 % 85.9 % 90.6 % 82.1 % Machinio & Software Solutions: GMV Total revenue $ 5,221 $ 4,106 $ 14,386 $ 11,994 Segment direct profit $ 4,790 $ 3,906 $ 13,380 $ 11,409 Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue 91.7 % 95.1 % 93.0 % 95.1 % Consolidated: GMV $ 413,007 $ 380,439 $ 1,166,440 $ 1,005,675 Total revenue $ 119,875 $ 93,613 $ 358,581 $ 256,391 Three Months Ended June 30, 2025, Compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 Segment Results GovDeals. Total revenues from our GovDeals reportable segment increased 8.4%, or $1.9 million, due to a $2.6 million, or 1.1%, increase in GMV driven by new seller acquisition and service expansion, partially offset by lower market prices for vehicles sold. Revenue grew at a higher rate than GMV due to reduced activity from certain lower take-rate real estate sellers. Segment direct profit increased by $1.4 million, or 7.0% while Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue decreased from 93.7% to 25 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) 92.5%, as our expanded service offerings for higher-volume sellers have a higher revenue take-rate but require additional costs of goods sold relative to our core self-service model. RSCG. Revenue from our RSCG reportable segment increased by $22.8 million, or 38.8%, due to a $23.6 million, or 29.9%, increase in GMV from existing and new retail client programs and increased volumes from our client purchase model programs relative to our consignment programs. Segment direct profit increased by $2.0 million, or 11.6%, while Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue decreased from 29.6% to 23.8%, reflecting the increased mix of purchase model transactions, purchase rate changes, partially offset by reduced transaction processing fees. Purchase volumes are forecasted to be lower than current levels, with purchase price increases expected for various ongoing programs, in the upcoming three months ending September 30, 2025. CAG. Revenue from our CAG reportable segment increased by $0.5 million, or 5.9%, due to a $6.3 million, or 12.2%, increase in GMV primarily driven by consignment sales in our heavy equipment category, partially offset by certain industrial categories and regions experiencing tempered activity due to economic and tariff-related supply chain uncertainty. As a result of the increase in revenues, Segment direct profit increased by $1.0 million, or 13.9%. Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue increased from 85.9% to 92.4%, which may fluctuate due to inherent variations in the mix of assets sourced and sold by the CAG segment in any given period, due to a higher mix of consignment transactions conducted during the current year. Global supply chains may experience heightened disruptions due to international tensions and other factors, which could limit the volume of assets made available for sale in any period. Machinio & Software Solutions. Revenue in our Machinio & Software Solutions businesses increased 27.1%, or $1.1 million, due to Machinio price increases and continued growth in its subscribers, and from the acquisition of Auction Software to form our Software Solutions business. As a result of this increase in revenues, segment direct profit increased 22.6%, or $0.9 million. Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue decreased from 95.1% to 91.7% as a result of the Auction Software acquisition. Consolidated Results Total revenues.Total consolidated revenue increased $26.3 million, or 28.1%. Refer to the discussion of Segment Results above for discussion of the increasein revenue. Cost of goods sold (excludes depreciation and amortization). Cost of goods sold increased $20.9 million, primarily due to increased purchase transaction volumes at our RSCG reportable segment during the three months ended June 30, 2025. Technology and operations expenses. Technology and operations expenses increased $1.9 million, or 12.4%, primarily in support of the increased transactions volumes across our segments, including operating costs associated with expanded service offerings in our GovDeals segment, a $0.2 million increase in stock compensation expense, and the acquisition of Auction Software; see Note 3 - Acquisitions. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.9 million, or 14.1%, due to increased sales expenses incurred to support the greater purchase transaction volumes at our RSCG reportable segment and other key initiatives, partially offset by a reprioritization of marketing initiatives in the current year. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.4 million, or 4.4%, primarily due to $0.5 million in litigation settlement expense incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2024; see Note 13 - Legal Proceedings and Other Contingencies. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.5 million, or 16.9%, due to historically acquired intangible assets reaching the end of their useful lives. Other operating expenses, net. Other operating expenses, net increased $0.1 million driven by business restructuring expense at our RSCG reportable segment, offset by legal, accounting and other professional fees incurred in connection with potential strategic acquisitions during the three months ended June 30, 2024. Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes increased $1.2 million due to an increase in income, and the impact of foreign, state, and local taxes and permanent tax adjustments. Nine Months Ended June 30, 2025, Compared to the Nine Months Ended June 30, 2024 Segment Results GovDeals. Total revenues from our GovDeals reportable segment increased 13.0%, or $7.3 million, due to a $41.5 million, or 6.6%, increase in GMV driven by new seller acquisition, service expansion and strong results across our personal property categories, partially offset by lower market prices for vehicles sold. Revenue grew at a higher rate than GMV due to the expansion of service offerings to new, higher-volume sellers, including through the acquisition of Sierra, and reduced activity from certain lower take-rate real estate sellers. Segment direct profit increased by $5.7 million, or 10.8%, and Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue decreased from 94.0% to 92.1%, as our expanded service offerings for higher-volume sellers have a higher revenue take-rate but require additional costs of goods sold relative to our core self-service model. 26 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) RSCG. Revenue from our RSCG reportable segment increased by $92.6 million, or 58.1%, due to a $90.0 million, or 40.0%, increase in GMV from existing and new retail client programs and increased volumes from our client purchase model programs relative to our consignment programs. Segment direct profit increased by $6.0 million, or 12.3%, and Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue decreased from 30.4% to 21.6%, reflecting the increased mix of purchase model transactions, purchase rate changes, partially offset by reduced transaction processing fees. Purchase volumes are forecasted to be lower than current levels, with purchase price increases expected for various ongoing programs, in the upcoming three months ending September 30, 2025. CAG. Revenue from our CAG reportable segment decreased by $0.2 million, or 0.6%, despite an increase in GMV of $29.3 million, or 19.0% increase, primarily driven by consignment sales in our heavy equipment category, offset by fewer large international spot purchase transactions, and certain industrial categories and regions experiencing tempered activity due to economic and tariff-related supply chain uncertainty, during the nine months ended June 30, 2025. Segment direct profit increased by $2.3 million, or 9.7%, as the increased consignment mix, driven by the heavy equipment category, has a greater impact on Segment direct profit than total revenues. Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue increased from 82.1% to 90.6% due to fewer international spot purchase transactions in the current year. As a reminder, there are inherent variations in the mix of assets sourced and sold by the CAG segment in any given period. Global supply chains may experience heightened disruptions due to international tensions and other factors, which could limit the volume of assets made available for sale in any period. Machinio & Software Solutions. Revenue in our Machinio & Software Solutions businesses increased 19.9%, or $2.4 million, due to Machinio price increases and continued growth in its subscribers, and from the acquisition of Auction Software to form our Software Solutions business. As a result of this increase in revenues, segment direct profit increased 17.3%, or $2.0 million. Segment direct profit as a percentage of total revenue decreased from 95.1% to 93.0% as a result of the Auction Software acquisition. Consolidated Results Total revenues.Total consolidated revenue increased $102.2 million, or 39.9%. Refer to the discussion of Segment Results above for discussion of the increasein revenue. Cost of goods sold (excludes depreciation and amortization). Cost of goods sold increased $86.3 million, primarily due to increased purchase transaction volumes at our RSCG reportable segment during the nine months ended June 30, 2025. Technology and operations expenses. Technology and operations expenses increased $6.4 million, or 14.2%, primarily in support of the increased transactions volumes across our segments, including operating costs associated with expanded service offerings in our GovDeals segment, a $0.5 million increase in stock compensation expense, and the acquisition of Auction Software; see Note 3 - Acquisitions. Sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $3.3 million, or 8.2%, due to increased sales expenses incurred to support the greater purchase transaction volumes at our RSCG reportable segment and other key initiatives, and a $1.0 million increase in stock compensation expense. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.3 million, or 1.0%, primarily due to $0.5 million in litigation settlement expense incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2024, and ongoing cost management and streamlining efforts, partially offset by a $0.8 million increase in stock compensation primarily from variable stock awards tied to financial performance targets. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $1.5 million, or 16.7%, primarily due to historically acquired intangible assets reaching the end of their useful lives. Other operating expenses, net. Other operating expenses, net were consistent between the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes increased $1.8 million due to an increase in income, offset by an increase in stock compensation vesting activity, and the impact of foreign, state, and local taxes and permanent tax adjustments. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA. Non-GAAP EBITDA is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure and is equal to Net income plus Interest and other income, net excluding the non-service components of net periodic pension cost (benefit); Provision for income taxes; and Depreciation and amortization. Interest and other income, net, can include non-operating gains and losses, such as from foreign currency fluctuations. Our definition of Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA differs from Non-GAAP EBITDA because we further adjust Non-GAAP EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition costs such as transaction expenses and changes in earn out estimates, business realignment expense, deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustments, and goodwill and long-lived asset impairment. We believe Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA are useful to an investor in evaluating our performance for the following reasons: 27 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Depreciation and amortization expense primarily relates to property and equipment and the amortization of intangible assets. These expenses are non-cash charges that have fluctuated significantly in the past. As a result, we believe that adding back these non-cash charges is useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. As a result of varying federal and state income tax rates, we believe that presenting a financial measure that adjusts for provision for income taxes is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance for stock-based compensation requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights to be recognized in the income statement based on their estimated fair values over the requisite vesting period. We believe adjusting for this stock-based compensation expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year to year. The authoritative guidance related to business combinations requires the initial recognition of contingent consideration at fair value based upon information known or knowable as of the acquisition date, with subsequent changes in fair value recorded through the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and disallows the capitalization of transaction costs. We believe adjusting for these acquisition related expenses is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. We believe adjusting for litigation settlement expenses that are not expected to reoccur is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year. We believe adjusting for business realignment expense is useful to investors when evaluating the operating performance of our business on a consistent basis from year-to-year, as these expenses are outside our ordinary course of business. We believe isolating non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our performance. We believe Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA are important indicators of our operational strength and the performance of our business because they provide a link between profitability and operating cash flow. We also believe that analysts and investors use Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA as supplemental measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of companies in our industry. Our management uses Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA: as measurements of operating performance because they assist us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as they remove the impact of items not directly resulting from our core operations; for planning purposes, including the preparation of our internal annual operating budget; to allocate resources to enhance the financial performance of our business; to evaluate the effectiveness of our operational strategies; and to evaluate our capacity to fund capital expenditures and expand our business. Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA as calculated by us are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In addition, Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA: (a) do not represent net income or cash flows from operating activities as defined by GAAP; (b) are not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our cash flow needs; and (c) should not be considered as alternatives to net income, income from operations, cash provided by (used in) operating activities, or our other financial information as determined under GAAP. We prepare Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA by eliminating from Non-GAAP EBITDA the impact of items that we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. You are encouraged to evaluate these adjustments and the reasons we consider them appropriate for supplemental analysis. As an analytical tool, Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA is subject to all of the limitations applicable to Non-GAAP EBITDA. Our presentation of Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an implication that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. The table below reconciles Net income to Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented. 28 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Three Months Ended June 30, Nine Months Ended June 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 Net income $ 7,410 $ 6,000 $ 20,271 $ 13,616 Interest and other income, net1 (1,127 ) (891 ) (3,231 ) (2,803 ) Provision for income taxes 3,885 2,702 6,920 5,071 Depreciation and amortization 2,657 3,199 7,741 9,297 EBITDA $ 12,825 $ 11,010 $ 31,701 $ 25,181 Stock compensation expense 3,512 2,617 9,522 7,208 Acquisition-related costs and litigation settlement expense2 50 1,080 286 1,657 Business realignment expenses2,3 618 777 Non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA $ 17,005 $ 14,707 $ 42,286 $ 34,046 1 Interest and other income, net excludes non-services pension and other postretirement expense (benefit). 2 Acquisition-related costs, and business realignment expenses are included in Other operating expenses, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Litigation settlement expense reflects significant legal settlements not expected to reoccur and are included in General and administrative expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. For further information see Note 13 - Legal Proceedings and Other Contingencies, for details about the litigation settlement that occurred during the three months ended June 30, 2024. 3 Business realignment expense includes the amounts accounted for as exit costs under ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations, and the related impacts of business realignment actions subject to other accounting guidance including operating lease impairment expense resulting from such actions as described in Note 5 - Leases. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our operational cash needs primarily relate to working capital, including staffing costs, technology expenses, leases of real estate, and equipment used in our operations, and capital used for inventory purchases, which we have funded through existing cash balances and cash generated from operations. The Company has not paid a dividend historically, nor do we have any intention to do so in the foreseeable future. From time to time, we may use our capital resources for other activities, such as contract start-up costs, joint ventures, share repurchases and acquisitions. As of June 30, 2025, we had $155.6 million in Cash and cash equivalents and $11.4 million in Short-term investments, which we believe is sufficient to meet the Companys anticipated cash needs for at least one year from the date of these financial statements. The Company accepts multiple forms of payment including payment cards, bank transfers, and other merchant account providers. Generally, we require receipt of payment prior to shipment or buyer-arranged pick-up at the point of sale, which minimizes our collection risk on those transactions. However, for a limited number of financially qualified buyers, which can include re-sellers, we may from time-to-time extend credit for certain large purchases with negotiated payment periods. Credit terms commonly require payment to be made within 30 days, but where commercial terms or market conditions warrant these payment terms may be extended for up to six months. As a result, our consolidated accounts receivable balances are typically a small component of our overall financial position but may, at times, be concentrated among a limited, small number of such buyers. Collection risk from and credit exposure to these financially qualified buyers is regularly reviewed by management and adjusted as needed. We intend to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside the United States. As a result, we did not record a provision for deferred U.S. tax expense on the $9.1 million of undistributed foreign earnings as of June 30, 2025. A total of $25.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments was held out of the U.S. as of June 30, 2025. These amounts are not currently considered in our evaluation of near-term liquidity needs in the U.S. due to the potential for adverse tax consequences upon repatriation. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures consist primarily of capitalized software, warehouse equipment, computers and purchased software, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, and leasehold improvements. The timing and volume of such capital expenditures in the future will be affected by the addition of new sellers or buyers or expansion of existing seller or buyer relationships. We intend to fund those expenditures primarily from our existing cash balances and operating cash flows. Our capital expenditures for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, were $5.8 million and $6.1 million, respectively. This decrease was primarily driven by the timing of enhancements to our platforms and marketplaces. As of June 30, 2025, we had no significant outstanding commitments for capital expenditures. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the development and deployment of new marketplaces, the introduction of new value-added services and the costs to expand our network of warehouses. We may seek to enter agreements with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, products or technologies, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased interest expense and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. There is no assurance that such financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Credit Agreement 29 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) The Company maintains a $25.0 million Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Associated (the Credit Agreement). During the year ended September 30, 2023, the Credit Agreement was amended to extend the maturity date by 12 months to March 31, 2025 (the First Amendment). During the six months ended March 31, 2024, the Credit Agreement was amended to extend the maturity date by an additional 12 months to March 31, 2026 (the Second Amendment). No other changes, including regarding the borrowing terms or capacities, were made to the Credit Agreement as a result of the First Amendment or the Second Amendment. On May 7, 2025, the Company entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement (the Third Amendment) that extended the maturity date to March 31, 2027, increased the maximum aggregate principal amount from $25.0 million to $35.0 million, and increased the sublimit for standby letters of credit from $10.0 million to $35.0 million. The Company may draw upon the Credit Agreement for general corporate purposes. Repayments of any borrowings under the Credit Agreement shall become available for redraw at any time by the Company. The interest rate on borrowings under the Credit Agreement is a variable rate per annum equal to the Daily Simple Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) in effect plus a margin ranging from 1.25% to 1.75%. Interest is payable monthly. During the nine months ended June 30, 2025, the Company did not make any draws under the Line of Credit, had no outstanding borrowings under the Line of Credit and had $9.0 million of standby letters of credit outstanding. The amount of standby letters of credit are reserved against the Line of Credit and are not available for borrowing, resulting in $26.0 million of remaining borrowing capacity under the Line of Credit as of June 30, 2025. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by us and each of our existing and subsequently acquired or organized domestic subsidiaries and secured on a first priority basis by a security interest (subject to permitted liens) in substantially all assets owned by us, and each of our other domestic subsidiaries, subject to limited exceptions. The Credit Agreement contains certain financial and non-financial restrictive covenants including, among others, the requirement to maintain a minimum level of earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The Credit Agreement contains a number of affirmative and restrictive covenants including limitations on mergers, consolidations and dissolutions, investments and acquisitions, indebtedness and liens, and dividends and other restricted payments. As of June 30, 2025, the Company was in full compliance with the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. Other Uses of Capital Resources Auction Software Acquisition. On January 31, 2025, the Company acquired Auction Software, a private-label marketplace and SaaS solutions provider. Auction Software results are reported within our Machinio & Software Solutions reportable segment. See Note 3 - Acquisitions for more information regarding this transaction. Marketplace and Support System Innovations. We regularly invest in new solutions and enhancements to our marketplace platforms, including capabilities and tools for product recommendations, behavioral marketing, analytics, payment optimization, and leveraging advanced digital capabilities such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning. Share Repurchases. From time to time, we have been authorized to repurchase issued and outstanding shares of our common stock under a share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors. Share repurchases may be made through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. The repurchase program may be discontinued or suspended at any time and will be funded using our available cash. As of September 30, 2024, the Company had $7.6 million of remaining authorization to repurchase shares through December 31, 2025. On December 9, 2024, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $10.0 million of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock through December 31, 2026. The Company made no repurchases during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2025. As of June 30, 2025, the Company had $17.6 million of remaining authorization to repurchase shares through December 31, 2026. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not have any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements that could be considered material off-balance sheet arrangements. 30 Liquidity Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Changes in Cash Flows: Nine Months Ended June 30, 2025, Compared to the Nine Months Ended June 30, 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities was $28.8 million and $48.2 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The $19.4 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities between periods was primarily attributable to a $7.0 million decrease in cash flows associated with Accounts receivable primarily due to qualified buyers with credit terms transacting in our expanded purchase program volumes in our RSCG segment, and a $14.3 million decrease in cash inflows associated with our Payables to sellers as the prior year benefited from the receipt of buyer payments for certain, larger consignment asset sales near the end of the quarter. The settlements to the sellers for these sales will occur in the fiscal fourth quarter. These were partially offset by a $4.8 million increase in our Net income as adjusted for non-cash items. Our working capital accounts are subject to natural variations depending on the rate of change of our transaction volumes, the timing of cash receipts and payments, and variations in our transaction volumes related to settlements between our buyers and sellers. RSCG's expanded purchase program volumes may cause operating cash flow fluctuations from Accounts receivable, Accounts payable and Inventory to increase. As GovDeals real estate sales with settlement services increase, operating cash flow fluctuations from Accounts payable and Payables to sellers may become more variable. The amount of cash received and settled will be substantially higher than our take-rate on such transactions, and the timing of auction events, cash collection period, and payment of settlements relative to period end dates can potentially drive substantial cash movements to the extent the timing of such activities cross fiscal periods. We have also recently began increasing our payments for US federal income taxes in fiscal 2025 as our remaining net operating loss carryforwards are used. There have been no other significant changes to the working capital requirements for the Company. Net cash used in investing activities was $20.9 million and $17.6 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The $3.3 million increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven a $14.0 million increase in the purchase of short-term investments, offset by an increase of $3.5 million in maturities of short-term investments and a $6.8 million decrease in cash paid for business acquisitions; see Note 3 - Acquisitions. Net cash used in financing activities was $5.1 million and $10.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The$5.7 million decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily driven by a $9.4 million decrease in share repurchases partially offset by a $3.7 million increase in taxes paid associated with the net settlement of stock compensation awards. 31