Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains and may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended (the PSLRA), and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA. These statements, which are not statements of historical fact, may contain estimates, assumptions, projections and/or expectations regarding the Companys financial position, results of operations, market position, product development, growth opportunities, economic conditions, and other similar forecasts and statements of expectation. Forward-looking statements are often identified by words or phrases such as anticipate, estimate, plan, expect, believe, intend, foresee, or the negative of these terms or other similar variations thereof. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause the Companys actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results and expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include but are not limited to the following: managements expectations about the macro economy; statements containing a projection of revenues, income (loss), earnings (loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure, or other financial items; statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including, but not limited to, those statements contained under the heading Acxioms Growth Strategy in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K; statements of future economic performance, including, but not limited to, those statements contained in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; statements containing any assumptions underlying or relating to any of the above statements; and statements containing a projection or estimate. Among the factors that may cause actual results and expectations to differ from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are the following: the risk factors described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report and those described from time to time in our future reports filed with the SEC; 4 Table of Contents the possibility that, in the event a change of control of the Company is sought, certain clients may attempt to invoke provisions in their contracts allowing for termination upon a change in control, which may result in a decline in revenue and profit; the possibility that the integration of acquired businesses may not be as successful as planned; the possibility that the fair value of certain of our assets may not be equal to the carrying value of those assets now or in future time periods; the possibility that sales cycles may lengthen; the possibility that we will not be able to properly motivate our sales force or other associates; the possibility that we may not be able to attract and retain qualified technical and leadership associates, or that we may lose key associates to other organizations; the possibility that we will not be able to continue to receive credit upon satisfactory terms and conditions; the possibility that competent, competitive products, technologies or services will be introduced into the marketplace by other companies; the possibility that there will be changes in consumer or business information industries and markets that negatively impact the Company; the possibility that we will not be able to protect proprietary information and technology or to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms; the possibility that there will be changes in the legislative, accounting, regulatory and consumer environments affecting our business, including but not limited to litigation, legislation, regulations and customs impairing our ability to collect, manage, aggregate and use data; the possibility that data suppliers might withdraw data from us, leading to our inability to provide certain products and services; the possibility that data purchasers will reduce their reliance on us by developing and using their own, or alternative, sources of data generally or with respect to certain data elements or categories; the possibility that we may enter into short-term contracts which would affect the predictability of our revenues; the possibility that the amount of ad hoc, volume-based and project work will not be as expected; the possibility that we may experience a loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links or power sources; the possibility that we may experience failures or breaches of our network and data security systems, leading to potential adverse publicity, negative customer reaction, or liability to third parties; the possibility that our clients may cancel or modify their agreements with us; the possibility that we will not successfully complete customer contract requirements on time or meet the service levels specified in the contracts, which may result in contract penalties or lost revenue; the possibility that we experience processing errors which result in credits to customers, re-performance of services or payment of damages to customers; general and global negative economic conditions; and our tax rate and other effects of the changes to U.S. federal tax law. With respect to the provision of products or services outside our primary base of operations in the United States, all of the above factors apply, along with the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in scale, competition, culture, laws and regulations. 5 Table of Contents Other factors are detailed from time to time in periodic reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. The Company believes that it has the product and technology offerings, facilities, associates and competitive and financial resources for continued business success, but future revenues, costs, margins and profits are all influenced by a number of factors, including those discussed above, all of which are inherently difficult to forecast. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements and such risks, uncertainties and assumptions speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein, to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto, or any other change based on the occurrence of future events, the receipt of new information or otherwise, except to the extent otherwise required by law. 6 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Acxiom Corporation is a global technology and enablement services company with a vision to transform data into value for everyone. Through a simple, open approach to connecting systems and data, we provide the data foundation for the worlds best marketers. By making it safe and easy to activate, validate, enhance, and unify data, we provide marketers with the ability to deliver relevant messages at scale and tie those messages back to actual results. Our products and services enable people-based marketing, allowing our clients to generate higher return on investment and drive better omni-channel customer experiences. Acxiom is a Delaware corporation founded in 1969 in Conway, Arkansas. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ACXM. We serve a global client base from locations in the United States, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific (APAC) region. Our client list includes many of the worlds largest and best-known brands across most major industry verticals, including but not limited to financial, insurance and investment services, automotive, retail, telecommunications, high tech, healthcare, travel, entertainment, non-profit, and government. We excel in relationships with organizations that view the activation, management, and application of data as an integral component of their business. We generate our revenue from the following business segments: Connectivity. Our Connectivity segment enables clients to build an omni-channel view of the customer and activate that understanding across the open marketing ecosystem. Audience Solutions. Our Audience Solutions segment helps clients validate the accuracy of their data, enhance it with additional insight, and keep it up to date, enabling clients to reach desired audiences with highly relevant messages. Marketing Services. Our Marketing Services segment helps clients unify data at the individual level in a privacy-safe environment and use it to achieve data-driven results. Across these segments, we leverage a common set of technical capabilities, each of which delivers increasing value with scale. We provide the largest number of integrations to marketing platforms and data providers in the digital marketing ecosystem, enabling our clients to innovate through their preferred choice of technology, data, and services providers. Our industry-leading recognition and data assets power best-in-class consumer identification and linking with the highest level of accuracy. And, our expertise in data stewardship enables us to process large volumes ethically and securely in accordance with regional data protection requirements. Together, our products and services form the power grid for data, the critical foundation for people-based marketing that brands need to engage consumers across todays highly fragmented landscape of channels and devices. Industry Trends Overwhelming Complexity in Digital Marketing Ecosystem Marketing has evolved significantly in recent years driven by rapid innovation and an explosion of data, channels, devices, and applications. Historically, brands interacted with consumers through a limited number of channels, with limited visibility into the activities taking place. Today, companies interact with consumers across a growing number of touchpoints, including online, social, mobile and point-of-sale. The billions of interactions that take place each day between brands and consumers create a trove of valuable data that can be collected and analyzed. However, most companies are unable to cut through the complexity to effectively harness and leverage this data. Increasing Fragmentation Today, customer journeys span multiple channels and devices over time, resulting in data silos and fragmented identities. As consumers engage with brands across various touchpoints over the web, mobile devices and applications, by email and television, and in physical stores they may not be represented as single unique individuals with complex behaviors, appearing instead as disparate data points with dozens of different identifiers. Becky Smith who lives at 123 Main Street may appear as beckys@acme.com when she uses Facebook, becky@yahoo.com when she signs into Yahoo Finance, cookie 123 when she browses msn.com, cookie ABC when 7 Table of Contents she browses aol.com, and so on. As a result, marketers struggle to understand the cross-channel, cross-device habits of consumers and the different steps they take on their path to conversion. More specifically, data silos and fragmented identities prevent brands from being able to resolve all relevant data to a specific individual; this poses a challenge to formation of accurate, actionable insights about a brands consumers or campaigns. Marketing Waste Every day, brands spend billions of dollars on advertising and marketing, yet many of the messages they deliver are irrelevant, repetitive, mistimed, or simply reach the wrong audience. In addition, as the marketing landscape continues to grow and splinter across a growing array of online and offline channels, it is increasingly difficult to attribute marketing spend to a measurable outcome, such as an in-store visit or sale. Wasted marketing spend is largely driven by the fragmented ecosystem of brands, data providers, marketing applications, media providers, and agencies that are involved in the marketing process, but operate without cohesion. Without a common understanding of consumer identity to unify otherwise siloed data, brands are unable to define accurate audience segments and derive insights that would enable better decision making. Heightened Privacy and Security Concerns Diligence in the areas of consumer privacy and security is and will continue to be paramount. Consumer understanding of the benefits of marketing technology often lags the pace of innovation, inspiring new demands from government agencies and consumer advocacy groups across the world. These factors compound the liability every company faces when managing and activating consumer data. The New Era of People-Based Marketing Historically, marketers were forced to cast a wide net to reach a desired audience. They might, for example, have run a television commercial during a specific program or placed generic advertising alongside certain types of web content, often exposing their message to millions of consumers outside their target audience. Today, however, rich data opens the door to granular audience targeting and better, more engaging customer experiences. For example, digital publishers like Facebook and Twitter now provide marketers with the ability to target very specific audiences males, over the age of 30, who live in zip code 94123, and own pets, for instance. Consumers are demanding personalization, and every piece of marketing content served has the potential to be individually relevant, addressable, and measurable. By understanding which devices, email addresses, and postal addresses relate to the same individual, marketers can deliver seamless experiences as consumers engage a brand across touchpoints. At the same time, by targeting consumers at the individual level, organizations can reduce marketing waste and more easily attribute their marketing spend to actual results. People-Based Marketing is Complex and Challenging to Navigate Innovation has fueled the growth of a highly-fragmented technology landscape, forcing brands to contend with thousands of marketing technologies and data silos. To make every customer experience relevant across channels and devices, organizations need a data foundation and common network that can break down those silos, make data portable, and accurately recognize people throughout the customer journey. Marketing is becoming more audience-centric, automated, and optimized. However, a number of important factors make people-based marketing in the digital era complex and challenging to navigate: Recognition. For organizations to target audiences at the individual level, they must be able to recognize consumers across all channels and devices, and link multiple identifiers and data elements back to a persistent identifier to create a single view of the customer. Scaled Data Assets. Quality, depth, and recency of data matters when deriving linkages between identifiers. Organizations must have access to an extensive set of data and be able to match that data with a high degree of accuracy to perform true cross-device audience targeting. Integrations. The fragmented marketing landscape creates a need for a common network of integrations that make it easy and safe to match and activate data anywhere in the ecosystem. 8 Table of Contents Walled Gardens. Walled gardens, or marketing platforms that restrict the use of data outside of their walls, are becoming more pervasive and can result in loss of control, lack of transparency, and fragmented brand experiences. Organizations need a solution that enables an open ecosystem and ensures complete control over customer data, along with the flexibility to choose a diversified approach to meeting marketing goals. Big Data Challenges. The volume of data available to optimize marketing performance is enormous and continues to grow. Organizations will continue to struggle with the management, activation, retrieval, and ability to unify data across channels and formats. Privacy and Compliance. Preserving brand integrity and delivering positive customer experiences is a top priority for every marketer. Organizations must be able to manage large sets of complex data ethically, securely, within legal boundaries, and in a way that protects consumers. Technical Expertise. Organizing, managing, and deriving insight from large sets of consumer data is complicated. Consequently, brands must rely on technical expertise and know-how in the form of third-party services to remove the barriers to effectively managing their data and leveraging its full value. Acxiom: Solutions That Power People-Based Marketing Our products and services provide the data foundation brands need to power people-based marketing. We make it safe and easy to activate, validate, enhance, and unify data, enabling marketers to deliver relevant messages at scale and link their campaigns to actual results. We help our clients generate higher return on investment and drive better customer interactions and experiences. As noted above, Acxiom has three business segments, each helping our clients address the inherent challenges associated with people-based marketing in a digital era. During fiscal 2018, we undertook a comprehensive review of our businesses to drive cleaner lines of sight, to create clearer accountabilities and to maximize its strategic flexibility. Following this review, we intend to reorganize our business and actively explore options to further strengthen Acxiom Marketing Solutions, a segment combining Marketing Services and lines of business from Audience Solutions. Beginning in fiscal 2019, we will report our results in two business segments: LiveRamp and Acxiom Marketing Solutions. Connectivity As shown in the illustration below, our Connectivity segment enables our clients to build an omni-channel view of the customer and activate that understanding across the marketing ecosystem. Through integrations with more than 575 leading digital marketing platforms and data providers, we have become a key point of entry into the digital ecosystem, helping our clients eliminate data silos and unlock greater value from the marketing tools they use every day. We provide a foundational identity resolution layer enabling our clients to identify and reach consumers across channels and measure the impact of marketing on sales, using the marketing platform of their choice. Today, our primary Connectivity offering is LiveRamp IdentityLink, an identity resolution service that ties data back to real people and makes it possible to onboard that data for people-based marketing initiatives across digital channels. Leveraging AbiliTec and the LiveRamp identity graph, IdentityLink first resolves a clients first-, second-, and third-party, exposure, and transaction data to persistent anonymous consumer identifiers that represent real 9 Table of Contents people in a privacy-safe way. This omni-channel view of the consumer can then be onboarded to and between any of the 575 plus partners in our ecosystem to support targeting, personalization and measurement use cases. Targeting Personalization Measurement Example Example Example Clients can upload known data from first-, second-, and third-party data sources, resolve it to an omnichannel privacy-safe link with IdentityLink, then onboard to one of 575+ LiveRamp partners to deploy targeted ads to known customers. Clients can deliver highly relevant content the moment viewers visit their websites' landing page, no login required. Leveraging IdentityLink, clients can resolve customer segment data to devices and digital IDs, onboard that data to a personalization platform and provide one-to-one experiences without compromising user privacy. Clients can connect exposure data with first and third-party purchase data across channels by resolving all customer devices back to the customers to which they belong. Then, clients can onboard that data to a measurement platform to clearly establish cause, effect and impact. IdentityLink operates in an Acxiom SafeHaven certified environment with technical, operational, and personnel controls designed to ensure our clients data is kept private and secure. IdentityLink is sold to brands and the companies' brands partners to execute their marketing including marketing technology providers, data providers, publishers and agencies. IdentityLink for Brands and Agencies. IdentityLink allows brands and their agencies to execute people-based marketing by creating an omni-channel understanding of the consumer and activating that understanding across their choice of best-of-breed digital marketing platforms. IdentityLink for Marketing Technology Providers. IdentityLink provides marketing technology providers with the ability to offer people-based targeting, measurement and personalization within their platforms. This adds value for brands by increasing reach, as well as the speed at which they can activate their marketing data. IdentityLink for Data Owners. IdentityLink allows data owners to easily connect their data to the digital ecosystem and better monetize it. Data can be distributed to clients or made available through the IdentityLink Data Store feature. This adds value for brands as it allows them to augment their understanding of consumers, and increase both their reach against and understanding of customers and prospects. IdentityLink for Publishers. IdentityLink allows publishers to offer people-based marketing on their properties. This adds value for brands by providing direct access to their customers and prospects in the publishers premium inventory. Audience Solutions Our Audience Solutions segment helps clients validate the accuracy of their data, enhance it with additional insight, and keep it up to date, enabling clients to reach desired audiences with highly relevant messages. Leveraging our recognition and data assets, clients can identify, segment, and differentiate their audiences for more effective marketing and superior customer experiences. Audience Solutions offerings include InfoBase, our large 10 Table of Contents consumer data store that serves as the basis for Acxioms consumer demographics products, and AbiliTec, our patented identity resolution technology that assists our clients in reconciling and managing variations of customer identity over time and across multiple channels. InfoBase. With more than 1,500 demographic, socio-economic and lifestyle data elements and several thousand predictive models, our InfoBase products provide marketers with the ability to identify and reach the right audience with the right message across both traditional and digital channels. Through partnerships with over 100 online publishers and digital marketing platforms, including Facebook, Google, Twitter, 4INFO, AOL, eBay and MSN, marketers can use InfoBase data to create and target specific audiences. Data can be accessed directly or through the Acxiom Audience Cloud, a web-based, self-service tool that makes it easy to build and distribute third-party custom data segments. AbiliTec. As shown in the illustration below, AbiliTec helps brands recognize individuals and households using a number of different input variables and connect identities online and offline. By identifying and linking multiple identifiers and data elements back to a persistent ID, our clients are able to create a single view of the customer, which allows them to perform more effective audience targeting and deliver better, more relevant customer experiences. Marketing Services Our Marketing Services segment helps clients unify data at the individual level in a privacy-safe environment, so they can execute people-based marketing campaigns, tie back to real results, and drive a continual cycle of optimization. We help architect the foundation for data-driven marketing by delivering solutions that integrate customer and prospect data across the enterprise, thereby enabling our clients to establish a single view of the customer. We also support our clients in navigating the complexities of consumer privacy regulation, making it easy and safe for them to use innovative technology, maintain choice in channels and media, and stay agile in this competitive era of the consumer. These services allow our clients to generate higher return on marketing investments and, at the same time, drive better, more relevant customer experiences. Our Marketing Services segment includes the following service offerings: Marketing Database Services and Strategy and Analytics. The Marketing Services segment also included Impact Email Platform and Services until the disposition of the business in August 2016. Marketing Database Services. Our Marketing Database offering provides solutions that unify consumer data across an enterprise, enabling clients to execute relevant, people-based marketing and activate data across the marketing ecosystem. Our consumer marketing databases, which we design, build, and manage for our clients, make it possible for clients to collect and analyze information from all sources, thereby increasing customer acquisition, retention, and loyalty. Through our growing partner network, clients are able to integrate their data with best-of-breed marketing solutions while respecting and protecting consumer privacy. Strategy and Analytics. Our Strategy and Analytics group consists of marketing strategists and data scientists who leverage industry knowledge and advanced analytics to assist our clients with identifying growth opportunities, addressing marketing data and technology needs, and adopting best practices. In addition, we help our clients identify and address their data privacy and governance requirements. 11 Table of Contents Impact Email Platform and Services. Until the August 2016 disposition, Acxiom Impact provided email and cross-channel data-driven marketing solutions for enterprise marketers, including a proprietary marketing platform and agency services. Together, our products and services form the power grid for data, the critical foundation for people-based marketing that brands need to engage consumers across today's highly fragmented landscape of channels and devices. We provide integrations with the largest number of marketing platforms and data providers in the digital marketing ecosystem, enabling our clients to innovate through their preferred choice of technology, data, and services providers. Our industry-leading recognition and data assets power best-in-class consumer identification and linking across channels and devices. And, our integrated services offering provides the expertise required to manage large sets of data legally, ethically, securely, and in a way that protects consumer privacy. Competitive Strengths Our competitive strengths include core capabilities that enable brands to execute effective people-based marketing. Most Advanced Consumer-Level Recognition. Acxioms proprietary, patented recognition technology draws upon an extensive historical reference base to identify and link together multiple consumer records and identifiers. We use the pioneering algorithms of AbiliTec and deterministic matching to link individuals and households to the right cookies, mobile device IDs, and user accounts at social networks. As a result, we are able match online and offline data with a high degree of speed and accuracy. Scale Leader in Data Onboarding and Connectivity. We created the category of Data Connectivity and we are the largest provider of data onboarding services. We match records with the highest level of accuracy and offer the most flexibility for activating data through our extensive set of integrations. Today, we work with over 400 direct customers and onboard the data of more than 1,000 companies through our partner and reseller relationships. Extensive Coverage. We activate data across an ecosystem of more than 575 partners, representing the largest network of connections in the digital marketing space. We use 100% deterministic matching, resulting in the strongest combination of reach and accuracy. We offer multi-sourced insight into approximately 700 million consumers worldwide, and our data products contain over 5,000 data elements from hundreds of sources with permission rights. Unique Position in Marketing Ecosystem. We are a neutral data infrastructure provider. We provide the connectivity required to build best-of-breed integrated marketing stacks, allowing our clients to innovate through their preferred choice of data, technology, and services providers. We strive to make every marketing application more valuable by providing access to more customer data. We enable the open marketing stack and power the open garden. Standard Bearer for Privacy and Security. For more than 45 years, Acxiom has been a leader in the area of data stewardship, as evidenced by: The industry's first Chief Privacy Officer role created in 1991 whose sole focus is the protection and responsible use of consumer data The use of a data SafeHaven, a privacy-compliant environment that allows marketers and partners to connect different types of data while protecting and governing its use Industry-leading expertise in safely connecting data across the online and offline worlds The creation of aboutthedata.com, the first-of-its-kind consumer portal that provides consumers with more transparency and understanding about how their data is gathered and used for marketing purposes Expertise in Big Data. We currently manage large datasets for leading marketing organizations around the world, executing more than 1 trillion global data transactions per week. This data includes both customer and prospect records as well as core campaign and engagement logs used for measurement and analytics. 12 Table of Contents Strong Client Relationships. We serve more than 2,500 clients directly, and tens of thousands of companies around the world use our data. We manage data for more than 40% of the Fortune 100 and have deep relationships with companies and business-to-consumer marketing leaders in key industries, including financial services, retail, telecommunications, media, insurance, health care, automotive, technology, and travel and entertainment. Growth Strategy While the terms big data and data management platforms, or DMPs, have recently become more common, for more than 45 years, Acxiom has been a thought leader and innovator in solving large-scale data problems and improving marketing results for our clients. Key elements of our growth strategy include: Continue to Innovate and Extend Leadership Position in Data Connectivity. We intend to continue to make substantial investments in our Connectivity solutions and extend our market leadership through innovation. Our investments will focus on automation, speed, higher match rates, expanded partner integrations, and new product development. Establish the Standard for Recognition and User Identification in the Marketing Ecosystem. We intend to establish AbiliTec as the standard for consumer-level recognition across the marketing ecosystem, providing a single source for user identification and audience targeting. Continue to Grow Our Client Base and Expand Existing Client Relationships. We plan to acquire an increasing number of new customers through the expansion of our direct sales teams. In addition, we intend to increase revenue from existing customers, many of whom are new Connectivity customers who have data infrastructure needs our Audience Solutions and Marketing Services businesses can help address. Expand Global Presence. We believe significant opportunities exist for us to expand our Connectivity offerings in key geographic markets where we already operate, such as Europe, China, Japan, and Australia. We intend to leverage existing infrastructure and expand operations to launch and grow our Connectivity business in those key markets. Build an Enduring Business. We do not aspire to be mediocre, good, or even great - we intend to be the absolute best in everything we do. We employ exceptional people, challenge them to accomplish exceptional things, and achieve exceptional results for our clients and shareholders. We will do this through five guiding principles: 1) Above all, we do what is right; 2) We always say what we mean, and do what we say; 3) We empower people; 4) We respect people and time; and 5) We get stuff done. Privacy Considerations The growing online advertising and e-commerce industries are converging, with consumers expecting a seamless experience across all channels, in real time. This challenges marketing organizations to balance the deluge of data and demands of the consumer with responsible, privacy-compliant methods of managing data internally and with advertising technology intermediaries. We have policies and operational practices governing Acxioms use of data that we believe reflect leading best practices and actively promote a set of effective privacy guidelines for digital advertising and direct marketing via all channels of addressable media, e-commerce, risk management and information industries as a whole. We remain certified under the European Union (EU)-U.S. Safe Harbor and are preparing for its potential replacement, the EU-US Privacy Shield. We also are operating as applicable under EU model contract clauses and contractually comply with other international data protection requirements in an effort to ensure our continued ability to process information across borders. We have a dedicated team in place to oversee our compliance with the privacy regulations that govern our business activities in the various countries in which we operate. The U.S. Congress continues to debate privacy legislation, and there are many different types of privacy legislation pending at the state level. In all of the non-U.S. locations in which we do business, laws and regulations governing the collection and use of personal data either exist or are being contemplated. We expect the trend of enacting and revising data protection laws to continue and that new and expanded privacy legislation in various forms will be implemented in the U.S. and in other countries around the globe. We are 13 Table of Contents supportive of legislation that codifies the current industry guidelines of meaningful transparency for the individual and appropriate choices regarding whether information related to that individual is shared with independent third parties for marketing purposes. We also support legislation requiring all custodians of sensitive information to deploy reasonable information security safeguards to protect that information. Clients Our client base consists primarily of Fortune 1000 companies and organizations in the financial services, insurance, information services, direct marketing, retail, consumer packaged goods, technology, automotive, healthcare, travel and communications industries as well as in non-profit and government sectors. We seek to maintain long-term relationships with our clients, many of which typically operate under contracts with initial terms of at least two years. We have historically experienced high retention rates among our clients. Our ten largest clients represented approximately 36% of our revenues in fiscal year 2018 but no single client accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. Sales and Marketing The process of buying marketing services has become more complex and therefore requires a more collaborative decision process between client and provider. As such, our approach to sales and marketing is strategy-led and client-intimate. Utilizing a proprietary maturity model, we employ both a diagnostic approach, guided by gaps between a clients current and desired state, and a prescriptive approach, focused on proven solutions and approaches to close those gaps. Our sales teams focus on new business development across all markets sales to new clients and sales of new lines of business to existing clients, as well as revenue growth within existing accounts. We organize our client relationships around industry verticals, as we believe that understanding and speaking to the nuances of each industry is the most effective way to positively impact our clients businesses. Our partner organization focuses on enabling key media partners, agencies and software providers who can help drive value for our clients or who benefit from using Acxiom for data, analytics and audience management. The focus of our marketing efforts is to disseminate our thought leadership. We do this by promoting topical points of view across multiple touch points and by fueling our sales efforts with prescriptive insights. Research and Development Research and development expense was $94.9 million in fiscal 2018 , compared to $82.1 million in fiscal 2017 , and $74.2 million in fiscal 2016 . Management expects to maintain investment spending at similar levels in fiscal 2019 . Competition Competitors for our Connectivity services are typically also members of our partner ecosystem, creating a paradigm where competition is the norm. Our primary competitors are companies that sell data onboarding as part of a suite of marketing applications or services. Walled gardens that offer a direct interface for matching CRM data compete for a portion of our services, particularly amongst marketers that have not yet adopted in-house platforms for programmatic marketing or attribution. Some providers of tag management, data management, and cross-device marketing solutions have adopted positioning similar to our Connectivity business and compete for mindshare. Our traditional competitors for our Audience Solutions and Marketing Services offerings have been database marketing services providers. We find that the competitive landscape is becoming more complex and now includes a range of players. Our primary competitors tend to be database marketing services providers, data companies and data distributors. In-house IT departments provide a secondary source of competition for portions of our offerings. Other types of companies such as technology consultants, business process outsourcers, analytics consultants, and management consultants participate to a lesser extent in portions of our market space. Different types of competitors have different core competencies and assets that they bring to bear. We compete for both broad-based and specific solutions. Our competitors can vary depending on the type of solution we are competing for. Generally, competition is based on the quality and reliability of the offering, whether the strategy will 14 Table of Contents deliver the desired business results for the client, historical success and market presence. Competition for more granular offerings is based on variables that are more specific. With regard to data products, for example, we compete with two types of firms: data providers and list providers. Competition is based on the quality and comprehensiveness of the information provided, the ability to deliver the information in products and formats that our clients need, and, to a lesser extent, pricing. In markets outside the United States, we face both global players as well as local market players. Local market players vary between those offering a range of services and those who may compete with us in more limited areas, such as for data products or data integration services. We continue to focus on levers to increase our competitiveness and believe that investing in the product and technology platform of our business is a key to our continued success. Further, we believe that enabling a broad partner ecosystem will help us to continue to provide competitive differentiation. Seasonality and Inflation Although we cannot accurately determine the amounts attributable to inflation, we are affected by inflation through increased costs of compensation and other operating expenses. If inflation were to increase over the low levels of recent years, the impact in the short run would be to cause increases in costs, which we would attempt to pass on to our clients, although there is no assurance that we would be able to do so. Generally, the effects of inflation in recent years have been offset by technological advances, economies of scale and other operational efficiencies. Our traditional direct marketing operations typically experience their lowest revenue in the first quarter of the fiscal year, with higher revenue in the second, third, and fourth quarters. To minimize the impact of these fluctuations, we continue to seek long-term arrangements with more predictable revenues. Pricing Given the diverse nature of the markets and industries in which our clients operate, we deploy a number of pricing techniques designed to yield acceptable margins and returns on invested capital. In our Marketing Services segment, the majority of revenue is generated from highly customized, outsourced solutions in which prices are dictated by the scope, complexity, nature of assets deployed and service levels required. These solutions are generally provided under long-term contracts and our revenue consists primarily of recurring monthly billings, and to a lesser extent, other volume and variable based billings. In our Audience Solutions segment, revenue is generated from licensing fees, which are typically in the form of recurring monthly billings, as well as transactional revenue based on volume or one-time usage. In addition, Audience Solutions generates digital data revenue from certain publishers and addressable television providers in the form of revenue-sharing agreements. Finally, our Connectivity segment primarily generates revenue from monthly recurring subscription fees sold on an annual basis. To a lesser extent, it also generates revenue from data providers and certain digital publishers in the form of revenue-sharing agreements. Examples of Acxiom pricing techniques are value based recurring revenue models, transactional models, subscription or license models, and professional services models, among others. Employees Acxiom employs approximately 3,380 employees (associates) worldwide. No U.S. associates are represented by a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. To the best of managements knowledge, approximately 15 associates are elected members of work councils or trade unions representing Acxiom associates in the European Union. Acxiom has never experienced a work stoppage, and we believe that our employee relations are good. Executive Officers of the Registrant Acxioms executive officers, their current positions, ages and business experience are listed below. They are elected by the board of directors annually or as necessary to fill vacancies or to fill new positions. There are no family relationships among any of the officers or directors of the Company. Scott E. Howe , age 50, joined the Company in 2011 as its Chief Executive Officer and President. He currently serves on and chairs the Executive Committee of the Companys board of directors. Prior to joining Acxiom, he served as corporate vice president of Microsoft Advertising Business Group from 20072010. In this role, he 15 Table of Contents managed a multi-billion dollar business encompassing all emerging businesses related to online advertising, including search, display, ad networks, in-game, mobile, digital cable and a variety of enterprise software applications. In 2010, he co-founded and served as interim CEO and president of King of the Web, Inc., a portfolio of online game shows. Mr. Howe was employed from 19992007 as an executive and later as a corporate officer at aQuantive, Inc. where he managed three lines of business, including Avenue A|Razorfish (a leading Seattle - based global consultancy in digital marketing and technology), DRIVE Performance Media (now Microsoft Media Network), and Atlas International (an ad serving technology now owned by Facebook). Earlier in his career, he was with The Boston Consulting Group and Kidder, Peabody & Company, Inc. He previously served on the boards of Blue Nile, Inc. (NASDAQ: NILE), a leading online retailer of diamonds and fine jewelry, the Internet Advertising Bureau (IAB) and the Center for Medical Weight Loss. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Princeton University, where he earned a degree in economics, and he holds an MBA from Harvard University. Warren C. Jenson , age 61, is the Companys Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President. He also serves as President of Acxiom International. He joined Acxiom in 2012 and is responsible for all aspects of Acxioms financial management and the Companys business operations outside the United States. Prior to joining Acxiom, he served as COO at Silver Spring Networks, a successful start-up specializing in smart grid networking technology, where he had responsibility for the companys service delivery, operations and manufacturing organizations. From 2002 - 2008 he was CFO at Electronic Arts Inc., a leading global interactive entertainment software company. He has more than 30 years of experience in strategy and operational finance and has been a part of some of the most important success stories of the last two decades, including Amazon.com, NBC and Electronic Arts. He also helped shape and successfully navigate digital transformations at NBC and Delta Airlines. In addition, he was twice designated one of the Best CFOs in America by Institutional Investor magazine, and he was also honored as Bay Area Venture CFO of the Year in 2010. He also has significant experience in M&A and corporate development experience. Mr. Jenson's board experience includes Digital Globe (NYSE: DGI), Tapjoy, and the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California. He holds a bachelor's degree in accounting and a master of accountancy degree, both from Brigham Young University. Jerry C. Jones , age 62, is the Companys Chief Ethics and Legal Officer, Executive Vice President, Interim Chief People & Culture Officer, and Assistant Secretary. He joined Acxiom in 1999 and currently oversees the Companys legal, data ethics and human resources matters. He also assists in the strategy and execution of mergers and acquisitions and the Companys strategic initiatives. Prior to joining Acxiom, Mr. Jones was employed for 19 years as an attorney with the Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, Arkansas, representing a broad range of business interests. Mr. Jones is a member of the board of directors of Agilysys, Inc. (NASDAQ: AGYS), a leading developer and marketer of proprietary enterprise software, services and solutions to the hospitality and retail industries, where he serves on the Audit Committee and the Nominating & Governance Committee. He also serves on the board of directors of Heifer International and on the UA Little Rock Board of Visitors, and is a co-founder of uhire U.S. He is a Special Advisor to the Club de Madrid, an organization composed of over 100 former Presidents and Prime Ministers from more than 60 democratic countries. He was a member of the board of directors of Entrust, Inc. until it was purchased by private investors in 2009 and is former chairman of the board of the Arkansas Virtual Academy. Mr. Jones holds a bachelors degree in public administration and a juris doctorate degree, both from the University of Arkansas. James F. Arra , age 52, was divisional co-president of the Companys Connectivity Division, a position he held from September 2017 through the end of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Beginning in fiscal 2019, he assumed the position of divisional co-president of the Company's LiveRamp division. In this role, he is responsible for leading the go-to-market strategy for LiveRamps client verticals: brands, agencies, data providers, platforms and publishers. Since joining LiveRamp in 2013, Mr. Arra has held several key leadership roles, most recently serving as Chief Operating Officer. From 2009 to 2012, Mr. Arra was Vice President of worldwide sales at TRUSTe, where he helped grow the company from less than 1,000 customers to more than 6,000 customers in just over three years. Prior to TRUSTe, he was in a sales leadership role at Vontu, a data security company that was acquired by Symantec, and before that was a vice president and general manager at FreeMarkets, a publicly traded SaaS company that subsequently merged with Ariba. Mr. Arra holds a bachelors degree in electrical engineering with a minor in quantitative economics and decision theory from the University of California, San Diego. Anneka R. Gupta , age 30, was divisional co-president of the Company's Connectivity Division, a position she held from September 2017 through the end of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Beginning in fiscal 2019, she assumed the position of co-president of the Company's LiveRamp division. She is responsible for leading LiveRamps product, engineering, marketing, and general and administrative functions. Previously Ms. Gupta was LiveRamps chief product officer, overseeing product strategy and execution. During her seven-year tenure at 16 Table of Contents LiveRamp (which was acquired by Acxiom in 2014), Ms. Gupta has led successful efforts in a variety of disciplines, including marketing, recruiting, product management and software development. In 2016, Ms. Gupta was recognized as a Top 10 Digital Marketing Innovator by AdAge magazine. She holds a bachelors degree in math and computational sciences from Stanford University and has completed the Executive Program at the Stanford University Graduate School of Business. Richard E. Erwin , age 51, joined Acxiom in 2015 as President and General Manager of Acxiom's Audience Solutions Division and was responsible for driving the strategy, growth and profitability of Acxioms industry-leading data products and services through the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Beginning in fiscal 2019, he assumed the position of divisional co-president of the Acxiom Marketing Solutions division where he is responsible for data product management and marketing, analytics, global data, data strategy With over two decades in the data-driven marketing industry, Mr. Erwin is a leading voice in the field of omnichannel marketing and an outspoken advocate for the value of data in the global economy. Prior to joining Acxiom in 2015, he spent 10 years at Experian, a large global information company, most recently as president of the Consumer Insights and Targeting Division of Experian Marketing Services. During his tenure there, he led the turnaround and growth of seven legacy data and analytics businesses and established the company as a force in the digital marketing services industry. Prior to Experian, he held numerous senior management roles in his 12-year career at RR Donnelley. Mr. Erwin is a director of the Internet Advertising Bureau (IAB) and is a founding director of the IABs Data Center of Excellence. He also serves on the board of trustees of Shedd Aquarium in Chicago. He is a past vice chairman and treasurer of the Data Marketing Association and is a past director of Chicago Youth Centers and RevSpring, Inc. Mr. Erwin holds a bachelors degree in marketing from Michigan State University and a masters degree in business administration from Northwestern University (Kellogg). Dennis D. Self , age 52, was President and General Manager of Acxiom's Marketing Services Division through the end of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Beginning in fiscal 2019, he assumed the position of divisional co-president of the Acxiom Marketing Solutions division where he is responsible for providing strategic leadership to the following teams: sales and market engagement, client management, service delivery, industry solutions, solution development, and technology and engineering. His previous positions at Acxiom include senior vice president of the Marketing Services Delivery and Operational Services organization, and chief information officer. Prior to joining the Company in 2013, Mr. Self served as vice president and chief information officer at Gilead Sciences, Inc. from 2011-2013. Prior to his employment with Gilead, he served as CIO at Electronic Arts for four years. His previous experience includes serving as an IT strategy consultant for Deloitte Consulting, HP, A.T. Kearney and Andersen Consulting. Mr. Self holds a bachelors degree in management information systems from Old Dominion University and an MBA from the University of Chicago. 17 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of future operations. Failure to keep up with rapidly changing technologies and marketing practices could cause our products and services to become less competitive or obsolete, which could result in loss of market share and decreased revenues and net income. Advances in information technology are changing the way our clients use and purchase information products and services. Maintaining the technological competitiveness of our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services is key to our continued success. However, the complexity and uncertainty regarding the development of new technologies and the extent and timing of market acceptance of innovative products and services create difficulties in maintaining this competitiveness. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically or commercially obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. Consumer needs and the business information industry as a whole are in a constant state of change. For example, in recent years, we have seen a decline in the use of direct mail marketing and an increase in the use of alternative marketing channels such as online advertising. Our ability to continually improve our current processes and products in response to changes in technology and to develop new products and services are essential in maintaining our competitive position, preserving our market share and meeting the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. If we fail to enhance our current products and services or fail to develop new products in light of emerging technologies and industry standards, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in impairment of our growth prospects, loss of market share and decreased revenues. A significant breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our or our customers, suppliers, or other partners computer systems could be detrimental to our business, reputation and results of operations. Our business requires the storage, transmission and utilization of data, including personally identifiable information, much of which must be maintained on a confidential basis. These activities may make us a target of cyber-attacks by third parties seeking unauthorized access to the data we maintain, including our data and client data, or to disrupt our ability to provide service. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches and improper access to or disclosure of the data we maintain, including personal information, could result in the loss or misuse of such data, which could harm our business and reputation and diminish our competitive position. In addition, computer malware, viruses, social engineering, and general hacking have become more prevalent. As a result of the types and volume of personal data on our systems, we believe that we are a particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks. In recent years, the frequency, severity, sophistication of cyber attacks, computer malware, viruses, social engineering, and other intentional misconduct by computer hackers has significantly increased, and government agencies and security experts have warned about the growing risks of hackers, cyber criminals and other potential attackers targeting information technology systems. Such third parties could attempt to gain entry to our systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. In addition, our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, their products, or otherwise. Third parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees or clients into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information to gain access to our clients data or our data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information. We believe we have taken appropriate measures to protect our systems from intrusion, but we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities in our systems and attempts to exploit those vulnerabilities, physical system or facility break-ins and data thefts or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our systems and the information we possess. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our data and client data, to prevent data loss, and to prevent or detect security breaches, our databases have in the past been and in the future may be subject to unauthorized access by third parties, and we may incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating cyber-attacks. Any security breach could result in operational disruptions that impair our ability to meet our clients requirements, which could result in decreased revenues. Also, whether there is an actual or a perceived 18 Table of Contents breach of our security, our reputation could suffer irreparable harm, causing our current and prospective clients to reject our products and services in the future and deterring data suppliers from supplying us data. Further, we could be forced to expend significant resources in response to a security breach, including those expended in repairing system damage, increasing cyber security protection costs by deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, and litigating and resolving legal claims or governmental inquiries and investigations, all of which could divert the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations. In any event, a significant security breach could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our clients, suppliers and other partners are primarily responsible for the security of their information technology environments, and we rely heavily on them and other third parties to supply clean data content and/or to utilize our products and services in a secure manner. Each of these third parties may face risks relating to cyber security, which could disrupt their businesses and therefore materially impact ours. While we provide guidance and specific requirements in some cases, we do not directly control any of such parties cyber security operations, or the amount of investment they place in guarding against cyber security threats. Accordingly, we are subject to any flaw in or breaches of their systems, which could materially impact our business, operations and financial results. Changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory, or cultural environments relating to information collection and use may limit our ability to collect and use data. Such developments could cause revenues to decline, increase the cost and availability of data and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. We receive, store and process personal information and other data from and about consumers in addition to our clients, employees, and services providers. Our handling of this data is subject to a variety of federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations and is subject to regulation by various government authorities. Our data handling also is subject to contractual obligations and may be deemed to be subject to industry standards. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution, use and storage of data relating to individuals, including the use of contact information and other data for marketing, advertising and other communications with individuals and businesses. In the U.S., various laws and regulations apply to the collection, processing, disclosure, and security of certain types of data. Additionally, the FTC and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The occurrence of unanticipated events often rapidly drives the adoption of legislation or regulation affecting the use of data and the manner in which we conduct our business. Restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information, which could result in a material increase in the cost of collecting or otherwise obtaining certain kinds of data and could limit the ways in which we may use or disclose information. In the U.S., the U.S. Congress and state legislatures, along with federal regulatory authorities have recently increased their attention on matters concerning the collection and use of consumer data. In the U.S., non-sensitive consumer data generally may be used under current rules and regulations, subject to certain restrictions, so long as the person does not affirmatively opt-out of the collection or use of such data. In Europe, the reverse is true. If the European opt-in model were to be adopted in the U.S., less data would be available and the cost of data would be higher. Decreased availability and increased costs of information could adversely affect our ability to meet our clients requirements and could result in decreased revenues. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us or our clients. In Europe, the European General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") took effect on May 25, 2018 and applies to products and services that we provide in Europe. The GDPR includes operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are different than those that were in place in the European Union. For example, we will be required to offer new controls to data subjects in Europe before processing data for certain aspects of our service. In addition, the GDPR includes significant penalties for non-compliance. In addition, some countries are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. Any failure to achieve required data protection standards may result in lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liability, all of which may harm our operating results. 19 Table of Contents In June 2016, a referendum was passed in the United Kingdom to leave the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit. This decision creates an uncertain political and economic environment in the United Kingdom and other European Union countries, even though the formal process for leaving the European Union may take years to complete. For example, it is unclear whether the United Kingdom will enact data protection laws or regulations designed to be consistent with GDPR and how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated. A Data Protection Bill is undergoing the legislative process in the United Kingdom that generally would be consistent with the GDPR, but it is unclear whether this bill ultimately will be enacted. The full effect of Brexit is uncertain and depends on any agreements the United Kingdom may make to retain access to European Union markets. Consequently, no assurance can be given about the impact of the outcome and our business may be seriously harmed. We are also subject to laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can transfer, process and/or receive certain data that is critical to our operations, including data shared between countries or regions in which we operate and data shared among our products and services. For example, in 2016, the European Union and the U.S. agreed to an alternative transfer framework for data transferred from the European Union to the U.S., called the Privacy Shield, but this new framework is subject to an annual review that could result in changes to our obligations and also may be challenged by national regulators or private parties. In addition, the other bases upon which we rely to legitimize the transfer of such data, such as Standard Contractual Clauses, have been subjected to regulatory and judicial scrutiny. If one or more of the legal bases for transferring data from Europe to the U.S. is invalidated, if we are unable to transfer data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, or if we are prohibited from sharing data among our products and services, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services or adversely affect our financial results. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws, regulations and standards are uncertain, it is possible that these laws, regulations and standards may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data management practices or the technological features of our solutions. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, investigations, lawsuits and other claims and proceedings, it may be necessary or desirable for us to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to make such changes or modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or any actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations, standards or policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, standards and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our clients may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our platform. Privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our platform particularly in certain industries and foreign countries. Unfavorable publicity and negative public perception about our industry could adversely affect our business and operating results. With the growth of online advertising and e-commerce, there is increasing awareness and concern among the general public, privacy advocates, mainstream media, governmental bodies and others regarding marketing, advertising, and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests and the global reach of the online marketplace. See Item 1. Business Privacy Considerations in this Form 10-K. Any unfavorable publicity or negative public perception about us, our industry, including our competitors, or even other data focused industries can affect our business and results of operations, and may lead to digital publishers like Facebook or Twitter changing their business practices or additional regulatory scrutiny or lawmaking that affects us or our industry. For example, in recent years, consumer advocates, mainstream media and elected officials have increasingly and publicly criticized the data and marketing industry for its collection, storage and use of personal data. The negative public attention Facebook faced following revelations about Cambridge Analytica's use of data led Facebook to change how it delivers targeted advertising, as well as its relationship with us and some of our competitors. This public scrutiny may lead to general distrust of our industry, consumer reluctance to share and permit use of personal data and increased consumer opt-out rates, any of which could negatively influence, change or reduce our current and prospective clients demand for our products and services and adversely affect our business and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Industry consolidations may increase competition for our products and services, which could negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. We compete against numerous providers of products and services in several separate markets. See Item 1. Business - Competition in this Form 10-K. Since we offer a larger variety of products and services than many of these competitors, we have been able to successfully compete. However, the dynamics of the marketplace would be significantly altered if several of these providers were to combine with each other to offer a wider variety of products and services that more directly compete with our portfolio of products and services. If our competitors were to combine forces to create a single-source provider of multiple products and services to the markets in which we compete, we could experience increased price competition, lower demand for our products and services, and loss of market share, each of which could negatively affect our operating results. Significant system disruptions, loss of data center capacity or interruption of telecommunication links could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is heavily dependent upon highly complex data processing capability. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage or interruption from fire, flood, tornadoes, power loss, telecommunications or equipment failure or other disasters and events beyond our control is critical to our continued success. The online services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunication providers. We believe we have taken reasonable precautions to protect our data centers and telecommunication links from events that could interrupt our operations. Any damage to our data centers or any failure of our telecommunications links that causes loss of data center capacity or otherwise causes interruptions in our operations, however, could materially adversely affect our ability to quickly and effectively respond to our clients requirements, which could result in loss of their confidence, adversely impact our ability to attract new clients and force us to expend significant resources to repair the damage. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Each of our business segments is subject to substantial competition from a diverse group of competitors. New products and pricing strategies introduced by these competitors in the markets where our products and services are offered could decrease our market share or cause us to lower our prices in a manner that reduces our operating margin and the profitability of our products. Each of our business segments faces significant competition in all its offerings and within each of its markets. See Item 1. Business - Competition in this Form 10-K. Our competitors include database marketing services providers, DMPs (Data Management Platforms), data companies and data distributors, some of whom may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources allocated to serving customers. Other types of companies such as technology consultants, business process outsourcers, analytics consultants and management consultants participate to a lesser extent in portions of our market space. Additionally, we compete with the in-house IT departments of some of our existing and prospective clients that have developed or are developing the in-house capacity to perform the services we provide. Maintaining technological competitiveness in our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services, continually improving our current processes, and developing and introducing new products and services are necessary to maintain our competitive position. If we fail to do so, we could lose clients to current or future competitors, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. The resources we allocate to each market in which we compete vary, as do the number and size of our competitors across these markets. These competitors may be in a better position to develop new products and pricing strategies that more quickly and effectively respond to changes in customer requirements in these markets. Some of our competitors may choose to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or may be able to sell products or services competitive to ours at lower prices given proprietary ownership of data, technical superiority or economies of scale. Such introduction of competent, competitive products, pricing strategies or other technologies by our competitors that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services could adversely affect our business. In such event, we could experience a decline in market share and be forced to reduce our prices, resulting in lower profit margins for the Company. 21 Table of Contents Engagements with certain clients, particularly those with long-term, fixed price agreements, may prove to be costlier than anticipated, thereby adversely impacting future operating results. The pricing and other terms of our client contracts, are based on estimates and assumptions we make at the time we enter into these contracts. These estimates reflect our best judgments regarding the nature of the engagement and our expected costs to provide the contracted services and could differ from actual results. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin. Our exposure to this risk increases generally in proportion to the scope of the client contract and is higher in the early stages of such a contract. Our failure to meet a clients expectations in any type of contract may result in an unprofitable engagement, which could adversely affect our operating results and result in future rejection of our products and services by current and prospective clients. The failure to recruit and retain qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. Our growth strategy and future success depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain technical, client services, sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, administrative and management personnel. The complexity of our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services requires highly trained professionals. While we presently have a sophisticated, dedicated and experienced team of associates who have a deep understanding of our business and in many cases have been with Acxiom for decades, the labor market for these individuals has historically been very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding, compensation strategies, general economic conditions and various other factors. As the business information and marketing industries continue to become more technologically advanced, we anticipate increased competition for qualified personnel. The loss or prolonged absence of the services of highly trained personnel like the Companys current team of associates, or the inability to recruit and retain additional, qualified associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or operating results. Processing errors or delays in completing service level requirements could result in loss of client confidence, harm to our reputation and negative financial consequences. Processing errors, or significant errors and defects in our products, can be harmful to our business and result in increases in operating costs. Such errors may result in the issuance of credits to clients, re-performance of work, payment of damages, future rejection of our products and services by current and prospective clients and irreparable harm to our reputation. Likewise, the failure to meet contractual service level requirements or to meet specified goals within contractual timeframes could result in monetary penalties or lost revenue. Taken together, these issues could result in loss of revenue and decreases in profit margins as service and support costs increase. Data suppliers may withdraw data that we have previously collected or withhold data from us in the future, leading to our inability to provide products and services to our clients, which could lead to a decrease in revenue and loss of client confidence. Much of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third-party data suppliers, and we are dependent upon our ability to obtain necessary data licenses on commercially reasonable terms. We compile the remainder of the data that we use from public record sources. We could suffer material adverse consequences if our data suppliers were to withhold their data from us, which could occur either because we fail to maintain sufficient relationships with the suppliers or if they decline to provide, or are prohibited from providing, such data to us due to legal, contractual, privacy, competition or other economic concerns. For example, data suppliers could withhold their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, if we breach our contract with a supplier, if they are acquired by one of our competitors, if legislation is passed restricting the use or dissemination of the data they provide or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of such data. Additionally, we could terminate relationships with our data suppliers if they fail to adhere to our data quality standards. If a substantial number of data suppliers were to withdraw or withhold their data from us, or if we sever ties with our data suppliers based on their inability to meet our data standards, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. 22 Table of Contents A failure in the integrity or a reduction in the quality of our data could harm our brand and result in a loss of revenue and an increase in legal claims. The reliability of our solutions depends upon the integrity and quality of the data in our database. A failure in the integrity of our database, whether inadvertently or through the actions of a third party, or a reduction in the quality of our data could harm us by exposing us to client or third-party claims or by causing a loss of client confidence in our solutions. We may experience an increase in risks to the integrity of our database and quality of our data as we move toward real-time, non-identifiable, consumer-powered data through our Enterprise Data Management Platform. We must continue to invest in our database to improve and maintain the quality, timeliness and coverage of the data if we are to maintain our competitive position and retain our clients confidence. Failure to do so could result in significant harm to our reputation and growth prospects, as well as a loss of revenue. The loss of a contract upon which we rely for a significant portion of our revenues could adversely affect our operating results. Our ten largest clients represented approximately 36% of our revenues in fiscal year 2018, but no single client accounted for more than 10% of the consolidated revenues of the Company. The loss of, or decrease in revenue from, any of our significant clients for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. While a significant amount of our total revenue is currently derived from clients who have long-term contracts (defined as contracts with initial terms of two years or more), these contracts have been entered into at various times, and some of them are in the latter part of their terms and are approaching their originally scheduled expiration dates. In addition, many of these contracts contain provisions allowing the client to terminate prior to the end of the term upon giving advance notice. Even if renewed by these clients, the terms of the renewal contracts may not have a term as long as, or may otherwise be on terms less favorable than, the original contract. Revenue from clients with long-term contracts is not necessarily fixed or guaranteed as portions of the revenue from these clients is volume-driven or project-related. With respect to the portion of our business that is not under long-term contract, revenues are even less predictable and are almost completely volume-driven or project-related. Therefore, we must engage in continual sales efforts to maintain revenue stability and future growth with all our clients or our operating results will suffer. If a significant client fails to renew a contract, or renews the contract on terms less favorable to us than before, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business were not obtained to replace or supplement that which was lost. Acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business and may involve increased expenses, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals contemplated at the time of a transaction, all of which could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. Historically, we have engaged in acquisitions to grow our business. To the extent we find suitable and attractive acquisition candidates and business opportunities in the future, we may continue to acquire other complementary businesses, products and technologies and enter into joint ventures or similar strategic relationships. While we believe we will be able to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our existing operations, there is no certainty that future acquisitions or alliances will be consummated on acceptable terms or that we will be able to integrate successfully the services, content, products and personnel of any such transaction into our operations. In addition, any future acquisitions, joint ventures or similar relationships may cause a disruption in our ongoing business and distract our management. Further, we may be unable to realize the revenue improvements, cost savings and other intended benefits of any such transaction. The occurrence of any of these events could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. We have also divested assets in the past and may do so again in the future. As with acquisitions, divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties, such as: disruption of our ongoing business; reductions of our revenues or earnings per share; unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs; the potential loss of key personnel; 23 Table of Contents distraction of management from our ongoing business; and impairment of relationships with employees and clients because of migrating a business to new owners. Because acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky, transactions we undertake may not be successful and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill, and we have experienced goodwill impairment charges in the past. The impairment of a significant portion of this asset would negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Goodwill is a significant portion of our total assets. Goodwill accounted for approximately 49% of the total assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2018. We may not realize the full carrying value of our goodwill. Goodwill is measured and tested for impairment on an annual basis in the first quarter of the Companys fiscal year and between annual tests if an event occurs or changes in circumstances suggest a potential decline in the fair value of goodwill. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator or change in circumstances relating to impairment has occurred. If testing indicates that impairment has occurred, we would be required to write off the impaired portion of goodwill, resulting in a change to our earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our business is directly dependent upon and correlates closely to the marketing levels and ongoing business activities of our existing clients. If material adverse developments in domestic and global economic and market conditions adversely affect our clients businesses, our business and results of operations could equally suffer. We serve clients from locations in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and the United States. Our client list includes many of the largest organizations in these regions across most major industry verticals, including but not limited to financial, insurance and investment services, automotive, retail, telecommunications, high tech, healthcare, travel, entertainment, non-profit and government. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. Future widespread economic slowdowns in any of these markets, particularly in the United States, may negatively affect the businesses, purchasing decisions and spending of our clients and prospective clients, which could result in reductions in our existing business as well as our new business development. In the event of such widespread economic downturn, we will likely experience a reduction in current projects, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our data products, processing functionality, software systems and services, and increased price competition, all of which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Our operations outside the U.S. are subject to risks that may harm the Companys business, financial condition or results of operations. During the last fiscal year, we received approximately 9% of our revenues from business outside the United States. The cost of executing our business plan in non-U.S. locations is increasingly expensive. In those non-U.S. locations where legislation restricting the collection and use of personal data currently exists, less data is available and at a much higher cost. In some foreign markets, the types of products and services we offer have not been generally available and thus are not fully understood by prospective clients. Upon entering these markets, we must educate and condition the markets, increasing the cost and difficulty of successfully executing our business plan in these markets. Additionally, each of our foreign locations is generally expected to fund its own operations and cash flows, although periodically funds may be loaned or invested from the U.S. to the foreign subsidiaries. Because of such loan or investment, exchange rate movements of foreign currencies may have an impact on our future costs of, or future cash flows from, foreign investments. We have not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to hedge the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Additional risks inherent in our non-U.S. business activities generally include, among others, potentially longer accounts receivable payment cycles, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, potentially adverse tax consequences, and greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights. The various risks which are inherent in doing business in the U.S. are also generally applicable to doing business outside of the U.S., but such risks may be exaggerated by factors normally associated with international operations, such as differences in culture, laws and regulations, especially restrictions on collection, management, aggregation and use of 24 Table of Contents information. Failure to effectively manage the risks facing our non-U.S. business activities could materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, when operating in foreign jurisdictions, we must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, as well as anti-competition regulations and data protection laws and regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries. Such violations could also adversely affect our reputation with existing and prospective clients, which could negatively impact our operating results and growth prospects. Our products and services have long and variable sales cycles due to their nature as enterprise-wide solutions. Failure to accurately predict these sales cycles could impair our ability to forecast operating results, which could result in a decline in the market value of our stock. When purchasing our products and services, our clients and prospects are often faced with a significant commitment of capital, the need to integrate new software and/or hardware platforms across multiple business units and other changes in company-wide operational procedures, all of which result in cautious deliberation and evaluation by prospective clients, longer sales cycles and delays in completing transactions. Additional delays result from the significant up-front expenses and substantial time, effort and other resources necessary of our clients to implement our solutions. For example, depending on the size of a prospective clients business and its needs, a sales cycle can range from two weeks to nine months. Because of these longer sales cycles, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. As a result, it is often difficult to accurately forecast our revenues on a quarterly basis as it is not always possible for us to predict the quarter in which sales will actually be completed. This difficulty in predicting revenue, combined with the revenue fluctuations we may experience from quarter to quarter, can adversely affect and cause substantial fluctuations in our stock price. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. Additionally, third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. As our business is focused on data-driven results and analytics, we rely heavily on proprietary information technology, processes and other protectable intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation, which could divert the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at all, or could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our proprietary portfolio consists of various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, database rights, source code, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements. The extent to which such rights can be protected varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights vigorously and successfully, our competitive position may suffer which could harm our operating results. Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive strengths of our Company, and our business may be adversely affected if events occur that could cause us to be negatively perceived in the marketplace. For over 45 years, Acxiom has been a thought leader and innovator in solving large-scale data problems and improving marketing results through high-performance, highly scalable, highly secured and privacy-compliant marketing solutions, with a track record of building strong technology and being an innovator in the marketing services space. Our brand and reputation earned over these years are key assets of the Company. Our ability to attract and retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of data quality, our ability to deliver consumer insights, our enterprise data management and analytical capabilities, the competence of our current associate team, and our ability to meet contractual service level requirements in a timely manner. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation with prospective clients and the public 25 Table of Contents generally. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in higher regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Any damage to our brand or reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Failure to recover significant, up-front capital investments required by certain client contracts could be harmful to the Companys financial condition and operating results. Certain of our client contracts require significant investment in the early stages, which we expect to recover through billings over the life of the contract. These contracts may involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks or the development and deployment of new technologies. Substantial performance risk exists in each contract with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these contracts are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. Failure to successfully meet our contractual requirements under these contracts over their life increases the possibility that we may not recover our capital investments in these contracts. Failure to recover our capital investments could be detrimental to the profitability of the particular engagement as well as our operating results. The decline in direct mail business could occur more rapidly than we are able to offset with new revenues from investments in new products and services, which could, in turn, negatively impact revenue, net income and profit margins. Postal rate increases are expected to continue. As postal costs continue to rise, we expect to see increased pressure on direct mailers to leverage digital and other forms of online communication and to mail fewer pieces. The concerns of direct mailers are further exacerbated by the on-going financial struggles of the United States Postal Service (USPS). In recent years, the USPS has incurred significant financial losses and may, as a result, implement significant changes to the breadth or frequency of its mail delivery. USPS cost cutting measures have included, among other things, consolidation of USPSs mail processing network and changes to USPSs service standards for market-dominant mail products. These ongoing changes are expected to increase mail processing time and slow delivery frequency, which in turn may decrease marketers and the general publics willingness to continue to use traditional mail, which may negatively impact our direct mail clients and thus the Companys revenue derived from our traditional direct marketing business. Additionally, those in the traditional direct mail business, as well as the USPS, are under growing pressure to reduce their impact on the environment. It is uncertain at this time what either marketers or the USPS will do to lessen their impact. From a postal service perspective, the actions to be taken may involve changing certain aspects of mail service that would negatively affect direct marketers. From a marketers perspective, such actions could have the same effect as increased rates, thereby causing them to mail fewer pieces, which may negatively impact the Companys revenue derived from our traditional direct marketing business. Changes in tax laws or regulations that are applied adversely to us or our customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. New i ncome, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time, which could affect the tax treatment of our domestic and foreign earnings. Any new taxes could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. For example, recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation ("Tax Act") contains many significant changes to the U.S. tax laws, the precise consequences to us of which have not yet been finalized. Changes in corporate tax rates, the availability of the net deferred tax assets relating to our U.S. operations, the taxation of foreign earnings, and the deductibility of expenses contained in the Tax Act or other tax reform legislation could have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, could result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years, and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. The foregoing items could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Acxiom is headquartered in Conway, Arkansas with additional locations around the United States. We also have operations in Europe and Asia-Pacific. In general, our facilities are in good condition, and we believe that they are adequate to meet our current needs. The table below sets forth the location, form of ownership and general use of our principal properties currently being used by each business segment. Location Held Use Business Segment United States: Conway, Arkansas Ten facilities held in fee Data center; office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions, Connectivity Little Rock, Arkansas One building held in fee and one lease Data center; office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions, Connectivity Redwood City, California Lease Office space Connectivity San Francisco, California Lease Data center; Office space Connectivity Downers Grove, Illinois Lease Office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions New York, New York Lease Office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions, Connectivity Austin, Texas Lease Office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions 27 Table of Contents Location Held Use Business Segment Europe: London, England Lease Office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions, Connectivity Normanton, England Lease Data center; office space Audience Solutions Paris, France Lease Data center; office space Connectivity Frankfurt, Germany Lease Office space Audience Solutions Munich, Germany Lease Office space Audience Solutions Gdansk, Poland Lease Office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions China: Shanghai, China Lease Office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions, Connectivity Nantong, China Lease Data center; office space Marketing Services, Audience Solutions, Connectivity Item 3. Legal Proceedings The material set forth in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information The outstanding shares of Acxioms common stock are listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ACXM. The following table reflects the range of high and low sales prices of Acxioms common stock as reported by NASDAQ for each quarter in fiscal 2018 and 2017 . Fiscal 2018 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 32.93 $ 18.60 Third Quarter 27.93 24.45 Second Quarter 27.53 21.80 First Quarter 29.11 25.47 Fiscal 2017 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 30.40 $ 24.74 Third Quarter 27.70 22.72 Second Quarter 27.24 21.25 First Quarter 23.57 19.11 Stockholders As of May 21, 2018, the approximate number of record holders of the Companys common stock was 1,798. Dividends The Company has not paid dividends on its common stock in the past two fiscal years. The Board of Directors may consider paying dividends in the future but has no plans to pay dividends in the short term. 29 Table of Contents Performance Graph The graph below matches Acxiom Corporation's cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the NASDAQ Composite index and the NASDAQ Computer & Data Processing index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from 3/31/2013 to 3/31/2018. 3/13 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 Acxiom Corporation 100.00 168.60 90.64 105.10 139.56 111.32 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 131.36 154.40 155.94 190.23 228.86 NASDAQ Computer & Data Processing 100.00 141.51 155.12 191.20 226.47 291.54 The performance graph and the related chart and text, are being furnished solely to accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of ours, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing. The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 30 Table of Contents Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers The table below provides information regarding purchases by Acxiom of its common stock during the periods indicated. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs January 2018 $ $ 174,809,780 February 2018 749,014 $ 28.12 749,014 $ 153,746,582 March 2018 964,128 $ 29.44 964,128 $ 125,366,674 Total 1,713,142 $ 28.86 1,713,142 N/A The repurchases listed above were made pursuant to a repurchase program adopted by the Board of Directors on August 29, 2011. That program was subsequently modified and expanded, most recently on March 30, 2018 . Under the modified common stock repurchase program, the Company may purchase up to $ 500 million of its common stock through the period ending December 31, 2019 . Through March 31, 2018 , the Company had repurchased 20.1 million shares of its stock for $374.6 million , leaving remaining capacity of $125.4 million under the stock repurchase program. Item 6. Selected Financial Data For information pertaining to selected financial data of Acxiom, refer to page F-2 of the Financial Supplement, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The information required by this item appears in the Financial Supplement at pages F-3 F-21, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.