ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our business strategy, the impact of investment prioritization decisions, product offerings, sales and marketing initiatives, trends in consumer demand affecting our products and markets, trends in the composition of our customer base, our current or future revenue mix among our lower- and higher-margin products and our geographic sales mix, our expectations regarding the potential growth opportunities for our products in emerging markets, our competitive position and the effect of pricing, product, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors, the impact of our restructuring plan on future costs, expenses and financial performance, our estimates of future charges related to our restructuring plan, significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the impact of new product introductions and product innovation on future performance or anticipated costs and expenses, the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated and available borrowings to fund future cash requirements, our expectations regarding our future working capital requirements and our anticipated capital expenditures needed to support our product development and expanded operations, our expectations regarding our potential indemnification obligations, and the outcome of pending or future legal proceedings and tax audits, and Logitechs ability to achieve renewed growth, profitability and future success. Forward-looking statements also include, among others, those statements including the words anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict, should, will, and similar language. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual performance to differ materially from that anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. You should carefully review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K that we file in fiscal year 2013 and our fiscal year 2012 Form 10-K, which was filed on May 30, 2012, which discuss our business in greater detail. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Overview of Our Company Logitech is a world leader in products that connect people to the digital experiences they care about. Spanning multiple computing, communication and entertainment platforms, we develop and market innovative hardware and software products that enable or enhance digital navigation, music and video entertainment, gaming, social networking, audio and video communication over the Internet, video security and home-entertainment control. We have two operating segments, peripherals and video conferencing. Our peripherals segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of peripherals for PCs (personal computers), tablets and other digital platforms. Our products for home and business PCs include mice, trackballs, keyboards, interactive gaming controllers, multimedia speakers, headsets and webcams. Our tablet accessories include keyboards, keyboard cases and covers, headsets, wireless speakers, earphones and stands. Our Internet communications products include webcams, headsets, video communications services, and digital video security systems. Our digital music products include speakers, earphones, custom in-ear monitors and Squeezebox Wi-Fi music players. For home entertainment systems, we offer the Harmony line of advanced remote controls. Our gaming products include a range of gaming controllers and microphones, as well as other accessories. Our brand, portfolio management, product definition and engineering teams in our peripherals segment are responsible for product strategy, technological innovation, product design and development, and bringing our products to market. Our business groups are organized by product categories. Our global marketing organization is responsible for developing and building the Logitech brand, consumer insight, public relations and social media, customer care and digital marketing. Our regional retail sales and marketing activities are organized into 30 Table of Contents three geographic areas: Americas (including North and South America), EMEA (Europe-Middle East-Africa), and Asia Pacific (including, among other countries, China, Taiwan, Japan, India and Australia). We sell our peripheral products to a network of distributors, retailers, and OEMs. Our worldwide retail network includes wholesale distributors, consumer electronics retailers, mass merchandisers, specialty electronics stores, computer and telecommunications stores, value-added resellers, and online merchants. Sales of peripherals to our retail channels were 84% and 82% of our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. The large majority of our revenues have historically been derived from sales of our peripheral products for use by consumers. Our OEM customers include the majority of the worlds largest PC manufacturers. Sales to OEM customers were 8% and 10% of our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. Our video conferencing segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of LifeSize video conferencing products, infrastructure, and services for the enterprise, public sector, and other business markets. LifeSize products include scalable HD (high-definition) video communication endpoints, HD video conferencing systems with integrated monitors, video bridges and other infrastructure software and hardware to support large-scale video deployments, and services to support these products. The LifeSize division maintains a separate marketing and sales organization, which sells LifeSize products and services worldwide. LifeSize product development and product management organizations are separate, but coordinated with our peripherals business, particularly our Consumer Computing Platforms group. We sell our LifeSize products and services to distributors, value-added resellers, OEMs, and, occasionally, direct enterprise customers. Sales of LifeSize products were 8% of our net sales in each of the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. We seek to fulfill the increasing demand for interfaces between people and the expanding digital world across multiple platforms and user environments. The interface evolves as platforms, user models and our target markets evolve. As access to digital information has expanded, we have extended our focus to mobile devices, the digital home, and the enterprise as access points to the Internet and the digital world. All of these platforms require interfaces that are customized according to how the devices are used. We believe that continued investment in product research and development is critical to creating the innovation required to strengthen our competitive advantage and to drive future sales growth. We are committed to identifying and meeting current and future customer trends with new and improved product technologies, partnering with others where our strengths are complementary, as well as leveraging the value of the Logitech and LifeSize brands from a competitive, channel partner and consumer experience perspective. We believe innovation and product quality are important to gaining market acceptance and maintaining market leadership. We are developing new categories of products, such as tablet accessories, expanding in emerging retail markets, such as China, Russia, India and Latin America, increasing our presence in digital music, and entering new product arenas, such as hosted video conferencing as a service, and peripherals and services for UC (unified communications). As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our new categories as well as future ones we might enter. Many of these companies have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Our peripherals and video conferencing industries are intensely competitive. The peripherals industry is characterized by platform evolution, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets, and price sensitivity in the OEM market. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less established brands, including brands owned by some retail customers known as house brands, in response to declining consumer demand in both mature retail markets and OEM markets. We may also encounter more competition if any of our competitors in one or more categories decide to enter other categories in which we currently operate. 31 Table of Contents As we address the current and future market challenges we face, we are simplifying our current product portfolio and roadmap to align our resources, prioritize our investments, and focus on fewer, more compelling products. From time to time, we may seek to partner with or acquire, when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction. We continually review our product offerings and our strategic direction in light of our profitability targets, competitive conditions, changing consumer trends, and the evolving nature of the interface between the consumer and the digital world. Summary of Financial Results Our total net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2012 decreased 2% compared with the three months ended June 30, 2011, primarily due to flat retail sales and a sharp decline in OEM sales. OEM sales decreased 25% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, and OEM units sold decreased 7%, primarily in keyboard/desktops and pointing devices. Retail sales during the three months ended June 30, 2012 were flat and retail units increased 4% compared with the three months ended June 30, 2011. Growth in our EMEA region, led by the keyboards/desktops and audio categories, was offset by flat sales in our Asia Pacific region and sales declines in our Americas region, particularly in pointing devices, video, and gaming. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, the percentage changes in our constant dollar retail sales would have been an increase of 28% in EMEA, a decrease of 1% in Asia Pacific, and a decrease of 11% in the Americas. Sales of LifeSize Communications products, which were 8% of total net sales in both the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, increased by 1% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, reflecting strong growth in the Asia Pacific region and weak sales in the Americas and EMEA regions. Our gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2012 improved to 30.8% compared with 26.1% in the same period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin in the quarter ended June 30, 2011 was negatively impacted by an inventory valuation adjustment of $34.1 million related to Logitech Revue and related peripherals. In the quarter ended June 30, 2012, the primary negative impacts on gross margin were $4.5 million in pricing actions related to the simplification of our product portfolio and $3.0 million in restructuring-related costs. Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2012 were 43% of net sales compared with 36% in the same period of the prior fiscal year. Of the 19% increase over the prior year, 95% was attributable to $31.2 million in costs related to the restructuring plan initiated in April 2012. Net loss for the three months ended June 30, 2012 was $52.1 million compared with $29.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2011. The decline in net income was due to lower net sales and restructuring charges. 32 Table of Contents Trends in Our Business Our sales of PC peripherals for use by consumers in the Americas and Europe have historically made up the large majority of our revenues. We believe Logitechs future growth will be determined by our ability to create innovative products across a multiplicity of digital platforms, to sustain the growth of our PC peripherals and to optimize growth opportunities in emerging markets, products for tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, products for the consumption of digital music, sales to enterprise markets, and LifeSize video conferencing. Emerging Markets. In our traditional, mature markets, such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan, and Australia, although the installed base of PC users is large, consumer demand for PCs and peripherals is slowing and potentially may decline in future years. We believe there are continued growth opportunities for our PC peripherals outside the more mature markets of the Americas and Europe. However, PCs may not continue to be a growth category in emerging markets, and consumers in emerging markets may prefer tablets, smartphones, other mobile devices or other technologies. We have invested significantly in growing the number of our sales, marketing and administrative personnel in China, one of our largest target emerging markets, with the result that China was our second-largest country in retail sales for the three months ended June 30, 2012. We are also expanding our presence and our sales in Russia, India and Latin America. Tablets, Smartphones and Other Mobile Devices. The increasing popularity of smaller, mobile computing devices, such as tablets and smartphones with touch interfaces, have created new markets and usage models for peripherals and accessories. Logitech has begun to offer products to augment the use of mobile devices. For example, consumers are optimizing their audio experiences on their tablets and smartphones with premium earphones and wireless speakers that pair easily with their mobile devices. And they are enhancing their tablet experience with a range of accessories and peripherals that enable them to create, consume and share digital content more conveniently and comfortably. Digital Music. We believe that digital music, the seamless consumption of audio content on home and mobile devices, presents a significant and natural growth opportunity for Logitech, based on our history of successful earphone, headset and speaker products. Many consumers listen to music as a pervasive entertainment activity, fueled by the growth in smartphones, tablets, music services and Internet radio. Logitech has a solid foundation of audio solutions to satisfy consumers needs for music consumption, including Logitech UE earphones and speakers, and Squeezebox Wi-Fi music players. Enterprise Market . We are also increasing our efforts on creating and selling products and services to enterprises. We believe the preferences of employees increasingly drive companies choices in the information technologies they deploy to their employee base, and this consumerization of information technology has made the enterprise market open to embracing consumer technology and design. We are still in the early stages of our enterprise market teams efforts for our productivity peripherals. Growing our enterprise peripherals business will continue to require investment in creation of business-specific products, targeted product marketing, and sales channel development. Video Conferencing. The trend among businesses and institutions to use video conferencing offers a key growth opportunity for Logitech. However, the growth of our video conferencing segment depends in part on our ability to increase sales to enterprises with installed bases of competitor equipment, and to enterprises that may purchase competitor equipment in the future. 33 Table of Contents We believe the ability of our LifeSize products to interoperate with the equipment of other telecommunications, video conferencing or telepresence equipment suppliers to be a key factor in purchasing decisions by current or prospective LifeSize customers. In addition, LifeSize has broadened its product portfolio to include infrastructure, cloud services and other offerings which require different approaches to developing customer solutions. Some of our product categories are experiencing significant market challenges. As the quality of embedded webcams improves, we expect future sales of tethered consumer webcams in the consumer market to continue declining, as the embedded webcam experience appears to be sufficient to meet the needs of many retail consumers. We intend to address the market decline by enhancing our webcam product line-up to enable experiences that cannot be easily achieved with an embedded webcam. Sales in our digital home category have declined significantly. We believe the recent disappointing sales results for Harmony reflect the aging of our Harmony products at the mid- and high-level price points as we previously directed significant digital home engineering and marketing resources towards our Logitech Revue and related peripherals for Google TV. We have exited the Google TV product category, and we plan to strengthen our Harmony line in fiscal year 2013. Sales of our OEM mice and keyboards have historically made up the bulk of our OEM sales. In recent years, the shift away from desktop PCs adversely affected our sales of OEM mice and keyboards, which are sold with name-brand desktop PCs. We expect this trend to continue and for OEM sales to comprise a smaller percentage of our total revenues in the future. Our balance sheet includes goodwill of $219.3 million related to various past acquisitions which are part of our peripherals reporting unit, and $338.9 million related to our video conferencing reporting unit. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test annually as of December 31, or more frequently, if certain events or circumstances warrant. Events or changes in circumstances which might indicate potential impairment in goodwill include the company specific factors described in our Form 10-K, volatility in stock price, a sustained decline in market capitalization relative to net book value, and lower than projected revenue, market growth, or operating results. On April 25, 2012, the Company announced a restructuring plan as described in Note 13, and as a result, we performed a test as of June 30, 2012 to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill after implementation of the restructuring. The goodwill impairment evaluation we performed indicated that the fair value of our peripherals reporting unit exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit by more than 70% of the carrying value, and the fair value of our video conferencing reporting unit exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit by more than 100% of the carrying value. Also in connection with the restructuring, we reviewed long-lived assets, such as property, equipment, and intangible assets, for recoverability by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with those assets to their carrying values. No impairment of long-lived assets was required as a result of the review. We continue to evaluate and monitor all key factors impacting the carrying value of our recorded goodwill and long-lived assets. Further adverse changes in our expected operating results, market capitalization, business climate, or other negative events could result in a material non-cash impairment charge in the future. Most of our revenue comes from sales to our retail channels, which resell to consumers, retailers and distributors. As a result, our customers demand for our products depends in substantial part on trends in consumer confidence and consumer spending, as well as the levels of inventory which our customers, and their customers, choose to maintain. We use sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our retailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics to assess consumer demand for our products. Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third 34 Table of Contents party nature of the data. Although the sell-through data we obtain typically represents a majority of our retail sales, the customers supplying the data vary by geographic region and from period to period. As a result of these limitations, sell-through data may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products. Although our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, approximately 44% of our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2012 were made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as the euro, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar. Our product costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Chinese renminbi. Our operating expenses are incurred in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, Swiss francs, euros, and, to a lesser extent, 27 other currencies. To the extent that the U.S. dollar significantly increases or decreases in value relative to the currencies in which our sales and operating expenses are denominated, the reported dollar amounts of our sales and expenses may decrease or increase Our gross margins vary with the mix of products sold, competitive activity, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, geographic sales mix, and the complexity and functionality of new product introductions. Changes in consumer demand affect the need for us to undertake promotional efforts, such as cooperative marketing arrangements, customer incentive programs or other pricing programs, which alter our product gross margins. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our revenue, and by macroeconomic conditions in the various global regions in which we operate. Logitech is incorporated in Switzerland but operates in various countries with differing tax laws and rates. A portion of our income before taxes and the provision for income taxes are generated outside of Switzerland. Therefore, our effective income tax rate depends on the amount of profits generated in each of the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. For the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, the income tax benefits were $6.9 million and $9.5 million based on effective income tax rates of 11.7% and 24.4% of pre-tax loss. The change in the effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates, and the treatment of restructuring expenses as a discrete event in determining the annual effective tax rate. The Company is under examination and has received assessment notices in various tax jurisdictions. We are not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on our consolidated operating results. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America) requires the Company to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting estimate critical if it: (i) requires management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain; and (ii) is important to an understanding of Logitechs financial condition and operating results. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the Company in the future, actual results could differ from 35 Table of Contents those estimates. Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. There have been no significant changes during the three months ended June 30, 2012 to the nature of the critical accounting estimates disclosed in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales by channel for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 Change % Retail $ 395,101 $ 394,776 0 % OEM 36,675 49,178 (25 )% Video Conferencing 36,828 36,487 1 % Total net sales $ 468,604 $ 480,441 (2 )% The following table presents the approximate percentage of the Companys total net sales that were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011: Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 Currencies other than USD 44 % 34 % If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, the percentage change in our constant dollar net sales would have been: Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 Retail 3 % OEM (26 )% LifeSize 1 % Total net sales 0 % Our retail sales in the three months ended June 30, 2012 were flat compared with the prior fiscal year, as the retail sales increase in the EMEA region was offset by a decline in the Americas region. Retail units sold increased 4% during the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared with the preceding fiscal year. Our overall retail average selling price declined 4% in the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared with the preceding fiscal year. Products priced below $40 represented approximately 53% and 61% of retail sales in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, while products priced above $100 represented 13% and 14% of retail sales in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, our constant dollar retail sales increase would have been 3%. 36 Table of Contents OEM net sales decreased 25% and units sold decreased 7% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the preceding fiscal year. The decline was primarily due to lower sales in the keyboard/desktop category due to product mix changes with a large customer, and lower sales of OEM mice. LifeSize net sales increased 1% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 over 2011, primarily driven by growth in the Asia Pacific region, offset by weak sales in the Americas and EMEA regions. Foreign currency exchange rates did not affect LifeSize sales. We refer to our net sales excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates as constant dollar sales. Constant dollar sales are a non-GAAP financial measure, which is information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures in its financial and operational decision-making, and believes these non-GAAP measures, when considered in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, facilitate a better understanding of changes in net sales. Constant dollar sales are calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current periods average exchange rate for that currency. Retail Sales by Region The following table presents the changes in retail units sold, retail sales and constant dollar retail sales by region for the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the three months ended June 30, 2011. Three months ended June 30, 2012 Change in Change in Retail Units Change in Constant Dollar Sold Retail Sales Retail Sales EMEA 10 % 17 % 28 % Asia Pacific 7 % 0 % (1 )% Americas (5 )% (11 )% (11 )% Total retail sales 4 % 0 % 3 % Our EMEA region was our strongest growing region in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to improved execution and management of programs with our channel partners. Sales increased significantly in the keyboards/desktops and audio product categories, and increased modestly for pointing devices. These increases were offset in part by decreases in gaming, video and digital home. Sales results varied by country, with declining sales in France and Spain, and strong year-over-year growth in Germany, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands. Retail sell-through in the EMEA region decreased 1% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the prior fiscal year. Asia Pacific region retail sales were relatively flat for the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011, primarily due to weakness in Australia and India. Retail sales increased in pointing devices, keyboards/desktops and audio, but were offset by declines in gaming, video and digital home. Retail sales in China increased 9% during this period, with strong performance in keyboard/desktop and audio categories. China was our second-largest country in terms of net revenue. Retail sell-through in China increased 14% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 over 2011, while retail sell-through in the rest of the Asia Pacific region grew modestly. The decline in retail sales in the Americas region for the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011 was driven by double-digit percentage sales declines in pointing devices, video and gaming, offset in part by a double-digit percentage sales increase in digital home, and single-digit sales growth in 37 Table of Contents desktop/keyboards and audio. Retail sell-through in the Americas region decreased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011. We use retail sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our retailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products. Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third party nature of the data. Although the sell-through data we obtain typically represents a majority of our retail sales, the customers supplying the data vary by geographic region and from period to period. As a result of these limitations, sell-through data may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products. Net Retail Sales by Product Category Net retail sales by product category during the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 Change % Retail - Pointing Devices $ 115,727 $ 121,750 (5 )% Retail - Keyboards & Desktops 110,445 94,596 17 % Retail - Audio 90,047 77,673 16 % Retail - Video 36,880 49,586 (26 )% Retail - Gaming 27,274 37,166 (27 )% Retail - Digital Home 14,728 14,005 5 % Total net retail sales $ 395,101 $ 394,776 0 % Logitechs Pointing Devices product category includes our mice, trackballs and other pointing devices. Keyboards and desktops (mouse and keyboard combined) include cordless and corded keyboards and desktops, and tablet keyboards. Audio includes headsets, unified communications products, and digital music products including docks, speakers, earphones, headphones, and Squeezebox wireless music systems. Our video product category is comprised of PC webcams and Alert video security systems. Gaming includes console, tablet, and PC gaming peripherals, including gaming mice and keyboards. The Digital Home product category combines our Harmony Remote controls and Logitech Revue with related peripherals. Net sales reflect accruals for product returns, cooperative marketing arrangements, customer incentive programs and pricing programs. In the three months ended June 30, 2012, we changed the product category classification for a number of our retail products, in order to include all of our gaming-related retail sales in the gaming product category. The product categories impacted by this change include pointing devices, audio and gaming. Products within the retail product categories as presented in the three months ended June 30, 2011 have been reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation, with no impact on previously reported total net retail sales. Retail Pointing Devices Retail sales of our pointing devices decreased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011, while retail units sold decreased 1% during this period. The sales decline was concentrated in our Americas region, and was only partly offset by increases in our Asia Pacific and EMEA regions. The primary weakness was in our mid-priced cordless mice. Sales of all cordless mice decreased 8% in the three months ended June 30, 2012, while units sold increased 1%. Corded mice sales decreased 5% and units sold decreased 7% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011. 38 Table of Contents Retail Keyboards and Desktops Retail sales of keyboards and desktops increased 17% during the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared with the preceding fiscal year, while units sold increased 15% during this period. Sales growth was experienced in all regions, led by a 47% increase in EMEA. Sales of cordless keyboards and desktops increased 24% and units increased 42% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011. Sales of corded keyboards and desktops decreased 12% in dollars and 4% in units in the three months ended June 30, 2012. Our tablet keyboards made a significant contribution, as sales nearly doubled, led by very strong initial demand for the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover. Retail Audio Retail audio sales increased 16% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011, while retail units sold increased 10% during this period. The sales increase was led by strong growth of our digital music products, led by our Squeezebox WiFi music systems, which nearly doubled in sales. Our Ultimate Ears line of earphones also contributed to the growth in audio, with sales increasing 43% over the prior year. The Logitech Mini Boombox, a compact Bluetooth sound system that we began shipping in the latter part of fiscal year 2012, was another strong contributor to the growth. In addition, headset sales increased 20% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011, while retail PC speaker dollar and unit sales remained relatively flat. Unified communication products sales experienced strong growth, increasing 143% in sales in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011. Retail Video Retail sales of our video products declined 26% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011, while retail units sold decreased 18% during this period. The sales decrease was mainly due to weakness in our webcam product line, which continued to be negatively impacted by the combination of market trends and gaps in our product portfolio. The decline was most pronounced in the Americas region. We expect future sales of tethered consumer webcams in the consumer market to continue declining, as the embedded webcam experience appears to be sufficient to meet the needs of many retail consumers. We intend to address the market decline by enhancing our webcam product line-up to enable experiences that cannot be easily achieved with an embedded webcam. For example, we experienced strong growth from our recently launched Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920, which offers full HD 1080p video calls on Skype. Retail Gaming Retail sales of our gaming peripherals declined 27% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with 2011, while retail units sold increased 10% during this period. The decrease was primarily from PC gaming, due to sales declines in steering wheels, and from continued sales declines in console gaming. PC gaming sales decreased by 16% in dollars and increased by 16% in units in the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared with the prior fiscal year. The difference between the decline in PC gaming sales and the increase in units reflects a mix shift away from steering wheels to lower-priced mice, keyboards and gamepads. Console gaming sales decreased by 93% in dollars and 81% in units in the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared with 2011. Retail Digital Home Retail sales of our digital home category, which includes Harmony remotes and our discontinued Google TV peripherals, increased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the prior fiscal year, while retail units sold increased 26% during this period. The significant difference between the sales increase and growth in units reflects stronger unit growth in the low end of this category. Sales of Harmony remotes declined 10% in dollars and increased 16% in units in the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared with the prior fiscal year. We plan to strengthen our Harmony line-up in the coming months. Sales of refurbished Logitech Revue and related peripherals were $1.0 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2012. In the quarter ended June 30, 2012, sales of Logitech Revue were negative $1.3 million due to product returns. 39 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 Change Net sales $ 468,604 $ 480,441 (2 )% Cost of goods sold 324,352 354,834 (9 )% Gross profit $ 144,252 $ 125,607 15 % Gross margin 30.8 % 26.1 % Gross profit consists of net sales, less cost of goods sold which includes materials, direct labor and related overhead costs, costs of manufacturing facilities, costs of purchasing components from outside suppliers, distribution costs, write-down of inventories and amortization of intangible assets. The improvement in gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily resulted from a $34.1 million valuation adjustment to cost of goods sold which occurred during the three months ended June 30, 2011. This valuation adjustment reflected the lower of cost or market on our inventory of Logitech Revue and related peripherals on hand and at our suppliers. The gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2012 was negatively impacted by $4.5 million in pricing actions related to the simplification of our product portfolio in the Americas and EMEA regions, $3.0 million in costs related to product development efforts that were discontinued as a result of the restructuring, a provision for a likely settlement of a patent dispute, typical sales seasonality, and changes in product mix. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 Change Marketing and selling $ 100,897 $ 99,793 1 % % of net sales 22 % 21 % Research and development 38,928 39,981 (3 )% % of net sales 8 % 8 % General and administrative 32,480 30,865 5 % % of net sales 7 % 6 % Restructuring charges 31,227 100 % % of net sales 7 % 0 % Total operating expenses $ 203,532 $ 170,639 19 % The increase in total operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the restructuring plan initiated in April 2012, which resulted in $31.2 million in expenses incurred during the current quarter. We refer to our operating expenses excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates as constant dollar operating expenses. Constant dollar operating expenses are a non-GAAP financial measure, which is information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial 40 Table of Contents statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures in its financial and operational decision-making, and believes these non-GAAP measures, when considered in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, facilitate a better understanding of changes in operating expenses. Constant dollar operating expenses are calculated by translating prior period operating expenses in each local currency at the current periods average exchange rate for that currency. Marketing and Selling Marketing and selling expense consists of personnel and related overhead costs, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, customer and technical support and facilities costs. Marketing and selling expense increased 1% in the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily from increased investments in product design, advertising, consulting and marketing expenses. These increases were substantially offset by decreases in personnel-related expenses and share-based compensation expense due to the reduction in worldwide workforce resulting from our recent restructuring plan. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, the percentage change in constant dollar marketing and sales expense would have been an increase of 4% instead of 1%. Research and Development Research and development expense consists of personnel and related overhead costs, contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products. Although we continued to make investments in product development, we experienced a 3% decrease in research and development expense during the three months ended June 30, 2012, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily from a decline in personnel-related expenses due to the reduction in worldwide workforce resulting from our recent restructuring plan. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, the change in constant dollar research and development expense would have been a decrease of 1% instead of 3%. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel and related overhead and facilities costs for the finance, information systems, executive, human resources and legal functions. General and administrative expense increased by 5% from the three months ended June 30, 2011 to 2012, primarily from the write-off of the remaining lease obligations resulting from us exiting our former corporate headquarters. This increase was offset in part by decreases in personnel-related expenses and share-based compensation expense due to the reduction in worldwide workforce from our recent restructuring plan. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, the percentage change in constant dollar general and administrative expense would have been an increase of 8% instead of 5%. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges consist of termination benefits, lease exit costs and other charges associated with the restructuring plan initiated in April 2012. 41 Table of Contents The restructuring plan reduced our worldwide non-direct-labor workforce by approximately 340 employees, resulting in $28.7 million in termination benefits to those employees. Termination benefits are calculated based on regional benefit practices and local statutory requirements. Additional legal, consulting, and other costs of $1.1 million were incurred as a result of the terminations. We also incurred $1.5 million primarily related to costs associated with the closure of existing facilities. A majority of the restructuring activity was completed during the three months ended June 30, 2012. We estimate completing the restructuring plan during fiscal year 2013, and incurring additional pre-tax restructuring charges related to employee termination costs, lease exit costs, and other associated costs of less than $5 million during the remaining nine months of fiscal year 2013. The following table summarizes restructuring-related activities during the three months ended June 30, 2012 (in thousands): Total Termination Benefits Lease Exit Costs Other Balance at March 31, 2012 $ $ $ $ Charges 31,227 28,655 1,472 1,100 Cash payments (5,195 ) (4,766 ) (429 ) Foreign exchange 63 63 Balance at June 30, 2012 $ 26,095 $ 23,952 $ 1,472 $ 671 Interest Income, Net Interest income and expense for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 Change Interest income $ 732 $ 690 6 % Interest expense (348 ) 100 % Interest income, net $ 384 $ 690 (44 )% The changes in interest income for the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year resulted from higher invested balances, partially offset by slightly lower interest rates. Interest expense for the three months ended June 30, 2012 represents commitment fees and non-recurring fees related to the revolving credit facility entered into in December 2011. 42 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income and expense for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net $ (671 ) $ 340 Gain on sale of property and plant 4,904 Investment income (loss) related to deferred compensation plan (411 ) 188 Gain on sale of investments 831 Other, net 92 (241 ) Other income (expense), net $ (159 ) $ 5,191 Foreign currency exchange gains or losses relate to balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a particular subsidiary, to the sale of currencies, and to gains or losses recognized on foreign exchange forward contracts. We do not speculate in currency positions, but we are alert to opportunities to maximize foreign exchange gains. The $4.9 million gain on sale of property and plant for the three months ended June 30, 2011 relates to the sale of an unused manufacturing facility in China. Investment income (loss) for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 represents earnings, gains, and losses on trading investments related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we sold the remaining two of our available-for-sale securities with a total carrying value of $0.4 million and a total par value of $15.2 million for $0.9 million. This sale resulted in $0.8 million of gain recognized in other income (expense), net, $0.3 million of which resulted from the recognition of a temporary increase in fair value previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 Benefit from income taxes $ (6,910 ) $ (9,545 ) Effective income tax rate 11.7 % 24.4 % The provision for income taxes consists of income and withholding taxes. Logitech operates in multiple jurisdictions and its profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. The Companys effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical mix of income and expense, and changes in managements assessment of matters such as the ability to realize deferred tax assets. On April 25, 2012, Logitech announced a restructuring plan to simplify the Companys organization, to better align costs with its current business, and to free up resources to pursue growth opportunities. A majority of the restructuring was completed during the three months ended June 30, 2012. In determining the annual effective tax rate, the restructuring was treated as a discrete event in the quarter as it was significantly unusual and infrequent in nature. As such, restructuring-related charges and costs were 43 Table of Contents excluded from ordinary income in determining the annual effective tax rate. The tax benefit associated with the restructuring is approximately $0.2 million. The change in the effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2012 compared with the three months ended June 30, 2011 is primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates, and the treatment of restructuring expenses as a discrete event in determining the annual effective tax rate. As of June 30 and March 31, 2012, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties due to uncertain tax positions was $141.0 million and $143.3 million, of which $124.0 million and $125.4 million would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized. The Company classified the unrecognized tax benefits as non-current income taxes payable. The Company continues to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions in income tax expense. As of June 30 and March 31, 2012, the Company had approximately $7.5 million of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The Company files Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, the Company is generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to 1999. During fiscal year 2012, the IRS (U.S. Internal Revenue Service) completed its field examinations of tax returns for the Companys U.S. subsidiary for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, and issued NOPAs (notices of proposed adjustment) related to international tax issues for those years. The Company disagreed with the NOPAs and contested through the administrative process for the IRS claims regarding 2006 and 2007. On July 2, 2012, the IRS issued an RAR (Revenue Agents Report) for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 proposing revised assessments resulted from the administrative process. On July 12, 2012, the Company accepted the proposed revised assessments. The IRS is completing their RAR review process which generally takes sixty days from the time of acceptance. The proposed revised assessments will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated operating results. In addition, the IRS is in the process of examining the Companys U.S. subsidiary for fiscal years 2008 and 2009. The Company is also under examination and has received assessment notices in other tax jurisdictions. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on the Companys consolidated operating results. Although the Company has adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is reasonably possible that resolution of fiscal years 2006 and 2007 with the IRS will lead to a decrease of unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months, which may have a material positive effect on the Companys consolidated operating results. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate the change as of June 30, 2012. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Balances, Available Borrowings, and Capital Resources At June 30, 2012, our working capital was $448.1 million, compared with $576.7 million at March 31, 2012. The decrease in working capital over the prior year was primarily due to lower cash balances. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we used $7.1 million for operating activities. Our largest uses of operating cash flows were net loss after adding non-cash expenses of depreciation, amortization, and share-based compensation expense, and from a decrease in accounts payable. These uses of operating cash flows were offset by an increase in accrued liabilities, a decrease in inventories and a decrease in accounts receivables during this period. Net cash used in investing activities was $18.7 million, including $19.6 million for investments in leasehold improvements, computer hardware and software, tooling and equipment. Net cash used by financing activities was $89.7 million, primarily from using $90.0 million to repurchase 8.6 million shares under our share buyback program. 44 Table of Contents At June 30, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $360.7 million. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised of bank demand deposits and short-term time deposits carried at cost, which is equivalent to fair value. Approximately 54% of our cash and cash equivalents are held by our Swiss-based entities, and approximately 36% is held by our subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China. We do not believe we would be subject to any material adverse tax impact or significantly inhibited by any country in which we do business from the repatriation of funds to Switzerland, our home domicile. In December 2011, the Company entered into a Senior Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a group of primarily Swiss banks that provides for a revolving multicurrency unsecured credit facility in an amount of up to $250.0 million. The Company may, upon notice to the lenders and subject to certain requirements, arrange with existing or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $150.0 million in additional commitments, for a total of $400.0 million of unsecured revolving credit. The credit facility may be used for working capital, general corporate purposes, and acquisitions. There were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility at June 30, 2012. The credit facility matures on October 31, 2016. The Company may prepay the loans under the credit facility in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Borrowings under the credit facility will accrue interest at a per annum rate based on LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), or EURIBOR (Euro Interbank Offered Rate) in the case of loans denominated in euros, plus a variable margin determined quarterly based on the ratio of senior debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the preceding four-quarter period, plus, if applicable, an additional rate per annum intended to compensate the lenders for the cost of compliance with regulatory reserve requirements and other banking regulations. The Company also pays a quarterly commitment fee of 40% of the applicable margin on the available commitment. In connection with entering into the credit facility, the Company incurred non-recurring fees totaling $1.5 million, which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the credit facility. The facility agreement contains representations, covenants, including threshold financial covenants, and events of default customary in Swiss credit markets. Affirmative covenants include covenants regarding reporting requirements, maintenance of insurance, maintenance of properties and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and financial covenants that require the maintenance of net senior debt, interest cover and adjusted equity ratios determined in accordance with the terms of the facility. Negative covenants limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, among other things, to grant liens, make investments, incur debt, make restricted payments, enter into a merger or acquisition, or sell, transfer or dispose of assets, in each case subject to certain exceptions. As of June 30, 2012, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions. Upon an uncured event of default under the facility, the lenders may declare all or a portion of the outstanding obligations payable by the Company to be immediately due and payable, terminate their commitments and exercise other rights and remedies provided for under the facility. The events of default under the facility include, among other things, payment defaults, covenant defaults, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events and events that have a material adverse effect (as defined in the facility). Upon a change of control of the Company, lenders whose commitments aggregate more than two-thirds of the total commitments under the facility may terminate the commitments and declare all outstanding obligations to be due and payable. The Company has credit lines with several European and Asian banks totaling $43.9 million as of June 30, 2012. As is common for businesses in European and Asian countries, these credit lines are uncommitted and unsecured. Despite the lack of formal commitments from the banks, we believe that these lines of credit will continue to be made available because of our long-standing relationships with these banks and our current financial condition. At June 30, 2012, there were no outstanding borrowings under these lines of credit. There are no financial covenants under these facilities. The Company also has credit lines related to corporate credit cards totaling $29.9 million as of June 30, 2012. The outstanding 45 Table of Contents borrowings under these credit lines are recorded in other current liabilities. There are no financial covenants under these credit lines. Cash Flow from Operating Activities The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 (dollars in thousands): June 30, 2012 2011 Accounts receivable, net $ 213,973 $ 241,456 Inventories 280,533 317,548 Working capital 448,129 607,809 Days sales in accounts receivable (DSO) (1) 41 days 45 days Inventory turnover (ITO) (2) 4.6x 4.5x Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (7,056 ) $ 3,744 (1) DSO is determined using ending accounts receivable as of the most recent quarter-end and net sales for the most recent quarter. (2) ITO is determined using ending inventories and annualized cost of goods sold (based on the most recent quarterly cost of goods sold). During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we used net cash of $7.1 million for operating activities, compared with net cash generated of $3.7 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year. The primary drivers of the decline in operating cash flows include the increase in net loss, from $29.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2011 to $52.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2012, and from the $37.4 million decrease in accounts payables. These uses of operating cash flows were offset in part by a $42.8 million increase in accrued liabilities, a $11.4 million decrease in inventories and a $6.6 million decrease in accounts receivables during this period. DSO for the three months ended June 30, 2012 decreased by 4 days compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in the three months ended June 30, 2012 over 2011 was primarily from lower accounts receivable balances due to increased cash collections. Typical payment terms require customers to pay for product sales generally within 30 to 60 days. However, terms may vary by customer type, by country and by selling season. Extended payment terms are sometimes offered to a limited number of customers during the second and third fiscal quarters. The Company does not modify payment terms on existing receivables, but may offer discounts for early payment. Inventory turnover between the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 remained relatively consistent between the two periods. 46 Table of Contents Cash Flow from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities during the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in thousands): Three months ended June 30, 2012 2011 Purchases of property, plant and equipment $ (19,621 ) $ (10,561 ) Proceeds from sale of property and plant 4,904 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale securities 917 Purchases of trading investments (1,397 ) (3,545 ) Proceeds from sale of trading investments 1,385 3,500 Net cash used in investing activities $ (18,716 ) $ (5,702 ) Our expenditures for property, plant and equipment during the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were principally normal expenditures for leasehold improvements, computer hardware and software, tooling and equipment. Proceeds from the sale of property and plant were related to the sale of an unused manufacturing facility in China in the three months ended June 30, 2011. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we sold our two remaining available-for-sale securities with a total carrying value of $0.4 million and a total par value of $15.2 million for $0.9 million. This sale resulted in $0.8 million of gain recognized in other income (expense), net, $0.3 million of which resulted from the recognition of a temporary increase in fair value previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. The purchases and sales of trading investments in the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 represent mutual fund activity directed by participants in a deferred compensation plan offered by one of the Companys subsidiaries. The mutual funds are held by a Rabbi Trust. Cash Flow from Financing Activities The following table presents information on our cash flows from financing activities during the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands): Three months ended June 30, 2012 2011 Purchase of treasury shares $ (89,955 ) $ Proceeds from sale of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights 404 607 Tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs (170 ) (176 ) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 5 24 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (89,716 ) $ 455 Three months ended June 30, 2012 2011 Number of shares repurchased 8,600 Value of shares repurchased $ 89,955 $ During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we repurchased 8.6 million shares for $90.0 million under the Companys amended September 2008 buyback program, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2011, during which no share repurchases were made. The amounts of the repurchases include transaction costs incurred as part of the repurchase. 47 Table of Contents Cash of $0.4 million and $0.6 million was provided during the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 from the sale of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights pursuant to the Companys stock plans. The payment of tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs (restricted stock units) required the use of $0.2 million in cash in each of the three month periods ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. Cash Outlook Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings. Our future working capital requirements and capital expenditures may increase to support investment in product innovations and growth opportunities, to repurchase our stock, to distribute cash dividends, or to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies. In December 2011, the Company entered into a Senior Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a group of primarily Swiss banks that provides for a revolving multicurrency unsecured credit facility in an amount of up to $250.0 million. The Company may, upon notice to the lenders and subject to certain requirements, arrange with existing or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $150.0 million in additional commitments, for a total of $400.0 million of unsecured revolving credit. The credit facility may be used for working capital, general corporate purposes, and acquisitions. The credit facility matures on October 31, 2016. The Company may prepay the loans under the credit facility in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. The facility agreement contains representations, covenants, including threshold financial covenants, and events of default customary in Swiss credit markets. There were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility at June 30, 2012. As of June 30, 2012, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions. In September 2008, our Board of Directors approved a share buyback program, which authorizes the Company to invest up to $250 million to purchase its own shares. In November 2011, the Company received approval from the Swiss regulatory authorities for an amendment to the September 2008 share buyback program to enable future repurchases of shares for cancellation. In fiscal year 2012, the Company repurchased 7.6 million shares for $73.1 million under the September 2008 program. Under the amended September 2008 program, the Company repurchased 9.9 million shares for $82.9 million in fiscal year 2012, and 8.6 million shares for $90.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2012. As of June 30, 2012, the approved amount remaining under the amended September 2008 program was $4.4 million. Our Board of Directors has proposed that shareholders approve the cancellation of 18.5 million shares at the Companys Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in September 2012. The Board of Directors has also proposed that the Company distribute CHF 125.7 million of qualifying additional paid-in capital to shareholders out of its capital contribution reserves. If approved by shareholders, the cash is expected to be distributed in September 2012. The Company files Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, the Company is generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to 1999. During fiscal year 2012, the IRS (U.S. Internal Revenue Service) completed its field examinations of tax returns for the Companys U.S. subsidiary for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, and issued NOPAs (notices of proposed adjustment) related to international tax issues for those years. The Company disagreed with the NOPAs and contested through the administrative process for the IRS claims regarding 2006 and 2007. On July 2, 2012, the IRS issued an RAR (Revenue Agents Report) for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 proposing revised assessments resulting from the administrative process. On July 12, 2012, the Company accepted the proposed revised assessments. The IRS is completing their RAR review process which generally takes sixty days from the time of acceptance. The proposed revised assessments will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated operating results. In addition, the IRS is in the process of examining the Companys U.S. subsidiary for fiscal years 2008 and 2009. The Company is also under examination and has received assessment notices in other tax jurisdictions. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations 48 Table of Contents may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on the Companys consolidated operating results. Although the Company has adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is reasonably possible that resolution of fiscal years 2006 and 2007 with the IRS will lead to a decrease of unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months, which may have a material positive effect on the Companys operating results. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate the change as of June 30, 2012. On April 25, 2012, we announced a restructuring plan to reduce operating costs and improve financial results. We estimate completing the restructuring plan during fiscal year 2013 and incurring additional pre-tax restructuring charges related to employee termination costs and other associated costs of less than $5 million during the remaining nine months of fiscal year 2013. Other contractual obligations and commitments of the Company which require cash are described in the following sections. For over ten years, we have generated positive cash flows from our operating activities, including cash from operations of $196.1 million in fiscal year 2012. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, our normal level of cash and cash equivalents was reduced by share repurchases and the net loss for the quarter. In addition, our restructuring plan will result in cash outlays in the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2013, and we intend to distribute cash of approximately CHF 125.7 million as a one-time distribution out of capital contribution reserves. If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to support our operations and future planned cash requirements, our operations could be harmed and our access to credit facilities could be restricted or eliminated. However, we believe that the trend of our historical cash flow generation, our projections of future operations and reduced expenses, our available cash balances, credit lines and credit facility will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. Although we believe that we can meet our liquidity needs, if we fail to meet our operating forecast or market conditions negatively affect our cash flows or ability to fund growth opportunities, we may be required to seek additional funding. If we seek additional funding, adequate funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plans and it could have a negative effect on our business, operating cash flows and financial condition. 49 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of June 30, 2012, the Companys outstanding contractual obligations and commitments included: (i) facilities leased under operating lease commitments, (ii) purchase commitments and obligations, (iii) long-term liabilities for income taxes payable, and (iv) defined benefit pension plan and non-retirement post-employment benefit obligations. The following summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments at June 30, 2012 (in thousands): June 30, 2012 Operating leases $ 106,035 Purchase commitments - inventory 152,617 Purchase obligations - capital expenditures 21,896 Purchase obligations - operating expenses 57,655 Income taxes payable - non-current 134,988 Obligation for deferred compensation 14,235 Pension and post-employment obligations 37,730 Other long-term liabilities 12,343 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 537,499 Operating Leases The Company leases facilities under operating leases, certain of which require it to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at the Companys option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation. The remaining terms on our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2028. Our asset retirement obligations on these leases as of June 30, 2012 were $2.0 million. Purchase Commitments At June 30, 2012, we have fixed purchase commitments of $152.6 million for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, which are expected to be fulfilled by December 2012. We also had commitments of $57.7 million for consulting services, marketing arrangements, advertising, outsourced customer services, information technology maintenance and support services, and other services. Fixed purchase commitments for capital expenditures amounted to $21.9 million at June 30, 2012, and primarily relate to commitments for computer hardware and leasehold improvements. We expect to continue making capital expenditures in the future to support product development activities and ongoing and expanded operations. Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to reschedule and adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services. Income Taxes Payable At June 30, 2012, we had $135.0 million in non-current income taxes payable, including interest and penalties, related to our income tax liability for recognized uncertain tax positions, compared with $137.3 million in non-current taxes payable as of March 31, 2012. The Company files Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, the Company is generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to 1999. During fiscal year 2012, the IRS (U.S. Internal Revenue Service) completed its field examinations of tax returns for the Companys U.S. subsidiary for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, and issued NOPAs (notices of proposed adjustment) related to international tax issues for those years. The Company disagreed with the NOPAs and contested through the administrative process for the IRS claims regarding 2006 and 2007. On July 2, 2012, the IRS issued an RAR (Revenue Agents Report) for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 proposing revised assessments resulting from the administrative process. On July 12, 2012, the Company accepted the proposed revised assessments. The IRS is completing their RAR review process which generally takes sixty days from the time of acceptance. The proposed revised assessments will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated operating results. 50 Table of Contents In addition, the IRS is in the process of examining the Companys U.S. subsidiary for fiscal years 2008 and 2009. The Company is also under examination and has received assessment notices in other tax jurisdictions. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on the Companys consolidated operating results. Although the Company has adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is reasonably possible that resolution of fiscal years 2006 and 2007 with the IRS will lead to a decrease of unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months, which may have a material positive effect on the Companys consolidated operating results. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate the change as of June 30, 2012. Obligation for Deferred Compensation At June 30, 2012, we had $14.2 million in liabilities related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of the Companys subsidiaries. For more information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Pension and Post-Employment Obligations At June 30, 2012, we had $42.1 million in liabilities related to our defined benefit pension plans and non-retirement post-employment benefit obligations. For more information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the Company. Guarantees Logitech International S.A., the parent holding company, has guaranteed payment of the purchase obligations of various subsidiaries from certain component suppliers. These guarantees generally have an unlimited term. The maximum potential future payment under the guarantee arrangements is limited to $36.0 million. At June 30, 2012, there were no purchase obligations outstanding for which the parent holding company was required to guarantee payment. Logitech Europe S.A., a subsidiary of the parent holding company, has guaranteed the purchase obligations of another Logitech subsidiary and third-party contract manufacturers under three guarantee agreements. Two of these guarantees do not specify a maximum amount. The remaining guarantee has a total limit of $7.0 million. As of June 30, 2012, $3.6 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding under these guarantees. Logitech Europe S.A. has also guaranteed payment of the purchase obligations of a third-party contract manufacturer under three guarantee agreements. The maximum amount of these guarantees was $3.7 million as of June 30, 2012. As of June 30, 2012, $1.7 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding under these agreements. 51 Table of Contents Logitech International S.A. and Logitech Europe S.A. have guaranteed certain contingent liabilities of various subsidiaries related to transactions occurring in the normal course of business. The maximum amount of the guarantees was $67.9 million as of June 30, 2012. As of June 30, 2012, $15.7 million of guaranteed liabilities were subject to these guarantees. Indemnifications Logitech indemnifies some of its suppliers and customers for losses arising from matters such as intellectual property disputes and product safety defects, subject to certain restrictions. The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys fees. No amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions at June 30, 2012. The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under its indemnification arrangements. Logitech also indemnifies its current and former directors and certain of its current and former officers. Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies. Logitech is unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not capped, the obligations are conditional in nature, and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise. Legal Proceedings On May 23, 2011, a class action complaint was filed against Logitech International S.A. and certain of its officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of individuals who purchased Logitech shares between October 28, 2010 and April 1, 2011. The complaint relates to Logitechs disclosure on March 31, 2011 that its results for fiscal year 2011 would fall below expectations and seeks unspecified monetary damages and other relief against the defendants. The action was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on July 28, 2011. The California Court appointed a lead plaintiff on October 27, 2011. The plaintiff filed an amended complaint on January 9, 2012 which expanded the alleged class period to between October 28, 2010 and September 22, 2011. On July 13, 2012, the California Court granted defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint, with leave to amend. On July 15, 2011, a complaint was filed against Logitech International S.A. and two of its subsidiaries in the United States District Court for the Central District of California by Universal Electronics, Inc. (UEI). On November 3, 2011, the Company filed a counter suit against UEI. On July 18, 2012, Logitech and UEI signed a nonbinding settlement and license agreement term sheet, and the District Court thereafter dismissed the suits without prejudice to the right, upon good cause shown within 60 days, to reopen the action if a settlement is not consummated. In addition, from time to time we become involved in claims and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe these lawsuits and claims lack merit and intend to vigorously defend against them. However, there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful, or that any judgment or settlement in any of these lawsuits would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are presently unable to estimate the effects of these claims and legal proceedings on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 52 Table of Contents