Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained in the Company's annual reporting, and recommends that the Board of Directors submit these items to the shareholders' meeting for approval. The Audit Committee currently consists of Mr. Hirsch, Chairperson, Mr. Bousquette, Mr. Chua, Ms. Davis and Ms. Ribar. The Board of Directors has determined that each member of the Audit Committee meets the independence requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market listing standards and the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, the Board has determined that Mr. Hirsch, Mr. Bousquette and Ms. Ribar are audit committee financial experts as defined by the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC. The Audit Committee met ten times in fiscal year 2014. Four meetings were held in person on the day prior to the regularly scheduled quarterly Board meeting, for two-and-a-half to three-and-a-half hours, and six were held by telephone, for approximately an hour preceding the Company's quarterly report of financial results and, starting in October 2013, for approximately half-an-hour preceding the filing of the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The Committee received reports and presentations before the meetings in order to allow them time to prepare adequately. At the Committee's invitation, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Controller, Vice President of Internal Audit and General Counsel or Associate General Counsel attended each meeting, and representatives from the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, also attended each meeting. Other members of management also participated in certain meetings. Six meetings also included a separate session with representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm, and three meetings included separate sessions with the Chief Financial Officer and with the head of Internal Audit. Executive Officers Certain information relating to the Executive Officers of Logitech appears in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Executive Officers of the Registrant." Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section 16 of the Exchange Act requires Logitech's directors, executive officers and any persons who own more than 10% of Logitech's shares, to file initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in ownership with the SEC. Such persons are required by SEC regulation to furnish Logitech with copies of all Section 16(a) forms that they file. As a matter of practice, our administrative staff assists our executive officers and directors in preparing initial ownership reports and reporting ownership changes, and typically files these reports on their behalf. We believe that all Section 16(a) filing requirements were met in fiscal year 2014, with the exceptions noted below: A late Form 3 report was filed for Marcel Stolk on April 17, 2014 to report his beneficial holdings. 103 Table of Contents A late Form 4 report was filed for Marcel Stolk on April 17, 2014 to report the remittance of shares to Logitech in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations arising out of the vesting of shares with respect to previously reported restricted stock units. Code of Ethics The Company's code of ethics policy entitled, "Business Ethics and Conflict of Interest Policy of Logitech International S.A.," covers members of the Company's Board of Directors and its executive officers (including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer and controller) as well as all other employees. The code of ethics addresses, among other things, the following items: Honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships; Full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in reports and documents that we file with, or submit to, the Commission and in other public communications made by us; Compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations; The prompt internal reporting to an appropriate person or persons identified in the code of violations of any of the provisions described above; and Accountability for adherence to the code. Any amendments or waivers of the code of ethics for members of the Company's Board of Directors or executive officers will be disclosed in the investor relations section of the Company's Web site within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver and will also be disclosed either on a Form 8-K or the Company's next Form 10-K filing. During fiscal year 2014, no waivers or amendments were made to the code of ethics for any Director or Executive Officer. Logitech's code of ethics is available on the Company's Web site at www.logitech.com, and for no charge, a copy of the Company's code of ethics can be requested via the following address or phone number: Logitech Investor Relations 7600 Gateway Boulevard Newark, CA 94560 USA Main 510-795-8500 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS COMPENSATION REPORT 2014 INTRODUCTION This Compensation Report contains information on Logitech compensation philosophy and practices, the background for decisions, and the results of decisions with respect to Logitech's named executive officers and its Board members. This Compensation Report has been designed to comply with both the proxy statement rules under U.S. securities laws and Swiss regulations. This Report is an integrated part of our Annual Report, Invitation, and Proxy Statement for our 2014 Annual General Meeting. 104 Table of Contents Compensation Discussion and Analysis EXECUTIVE SUMMARY During fiscal year 2014, Logitech continued to execute on its turnaround plan with an increase in sales and a return to operating profit. These results reflected the many changes made to improve company sales with a significant increase in revenue in our growth category businesses while increasing overall operating income through rigorous review of operating expenses. The following are key developments in fiscal year 2014 relating to executive compensation: Impact of Logitech's Performance Against Expectations and Relative to Overall Market. When making compensation decisions for fiscal year 2014, the Compensation Committee gave considerable weight to Logitech's execution of its turnaround plan as well as Logitech's performance relative to the overall market and our compensation peer group, as highlighted in "Compensation Elements" and other parts of this discussion below. Base Salary Actions. Given Logitech's financial performance in fiscal year 2013 and our executives' salary positions versus the market, only two of our executive officers received base salary increases in fiscal year 2014our Senior Vice President, CCP Business Group, Mr. Stolk, and our Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Mr. Sullivan. Increased Emphasis on Increasing Shareholder Value. In fiscal year 2014, the majority (60%) of the annual long-term equity incentive awards value granted to the executive officers who were not hired in fiscal year 2014 was in the form of performance-based stock units with vesting that required Logitech's stock price growth to be equal to or greater than that of the NASDAQ 100 Index before any of the granted shares would vest. Organizational Changes. Logitech hired Vincent Pilette as our Chief Financial Officer in September 2013. He took over the position from Erik K. Bardman who resigned in April 2013. For the three-month period prior to Mr. Pilette's appointment, Michael Doktorczyk, served as interim Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer. In September 2013 the Board designated Marcel Stolk as an executive officer. The Compensation Committee believes the design of our executive compensation programsincluding the balance among fixed compensation (base salary), short-term incentives (our annual incentive bonus program) and long-term incentives (equity)has and will continue to meet our goal of providing our executives with market-competitive base salaries, compensation packages that provide for above market rewards when Logitech outperforms both our internal goals and the overall market, and limited rewards when Logitech's performance does not meet these objectives. Overall, our Compensation Committee has developed executive compensation programs that it believes will provide an incentive to drive a turnaround of the Company's performance that will reward our shareholders and, as a result of these programs, will reward the executives who help to deliver improved results. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION OBJECTIVES AND PHILOSOPHY Logitech's executive compensation programs have been designed to: be competitive with comparable companies in our industry and in the region where the executive is based; maintain a balance between fixed and variable compensation and place a significant portion of total compensation at risk based on the Company's performance, while maintaining controls over inappropriate risk-taking by balancing annual and long-term performance; provide a balance between short-term and long-term objectives and results; 105 Table of Contents align executive compensation with shareholders' interests by tying a significant portion of compensation to increasing share value; support a performance-oriented culture; and reflect the Compensation Committee's assessment of an executive's role and past performance through base salary and short-term cash incentives, and his or her potential for future contribution through long-term equity incentive awards. Logitech's executive compensation philosophy is to pay executives at or near the median of other companies that compete for similar executive talent, based on our compensation peer group and survey data, and that individual performance and importance to Logitech should be reflected in the compensation of each executive. However, while compensation is a central part of attracting, retaining, and motivating the best executives and employees, we believe it is not the sole or exclusive reason why exceptional executives or employees choose to join and stay at Logitech, or why they work hard to achieve results for shareholders. In this regard, both the Compensation Committee and management believe that providing a working environment and opportunities in which executives and employees can develop, express their individual potential, and make a difference are also a key part of Logitech's success in attracting, motivating, and retaining executives and employees. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PRACTICES Logitech has employed a number of executive compensation practices that reflect its compensation philosophy: As shown in the chart below under the heading "Pay Mix", the majority of executive officers' potential compensation is designed to be performance-based, using a variety of performance measures, including measuring Logitech's performance against Board-established fiscal and other targets for annual incentive cash bonuses, and relative total shareholder return for performance-based equity awards. Logitech has clawback provisions that apply to its annual incentive cash plan and its equity awards plans, which provide for the recovery of compensation by Logitech in certain events described below under the heading "Recovery of compensation for restatement and misconduct". Logitech does not allow executives or any of its employees to trade in derivatives of Logitech securities or pledge equity awards. Logitech does not maintain any special vesting acceleration or payment arrangements that would be triggered solely by a "change in control" of Logitech. Logitech does not provide special retirement benefits designed solely for executive officers. In addition, Logitech has been a leader in providing our shareholders with an opportunity for advisory votes on compensation. Beginning in 2009, Logitech voluntarily submitted its compensation philosophy, policies, and procedures to a shareholder advisory vote. Our voluntary practice is now a requirement under U.S. legislation that provides shareholders the ability to periodically cast advisory votes on executive compensation, and is reflected in the proposals for our 2014 Annual General Meeting. We remain committed to providing clear and thorough disclosure on our executive compensation practices and actions, and our Compensation Committee will carefully consider the voting results. At our 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders demonstrated strong support for the compensation of our named executive officers, voting in favor of our advisory compensation resolutions. The Compensation Committee was mindful of this support for our pay-for-performance compensation philosophy in retaining our general compensation practices and setting fiscal year 2014 compensation for our executive officers. 106 Table of Contents NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS In this Compensation Report, we refer to our "named executive officers" in many places. This term includes the following individuals: Guerrino De Luca, our Chairman. Bracken P. Darrell, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Vincent Pilette, our Chief Financial Officer. Marcel Stolk, our Senior Vice President, CCP Business Group. L. Joseph Sullivan, our Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Former Officers: Erik K. Bardman, former Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Logitech at the beginning of fiscal year 2014. Michael Doktorczyk, former interim Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer. Mr. Bardman resigned his employment with us effective as of April 26, 2013. Mr. Doktorczyk assumed the positions of Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer on May 29, 2013 and served in such capacity until September 3, 2013. Because the compensation decisions for Messrs. Bardman and Doktorczyk were not made in the same manner as those of the other named executive officers, they are described separately at the end of this compensation report under the heading "Former Officers for fiscal year 2014" and any references to named executive officer or executive officer in other portions of this compensation report should be read as to not include them. DETERMINING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Role of the Compensation Committee and Independent Compensation Consultant The Compensation Committee reviews and approves our compensation programs, including the specific compensation of our Chairman, our Chief Executive Officer, and our other executive officers. Under the Compensation Committee's charter, the Committee has the authority to engage its own advisors (including compensation consultants) to assist it in carrying out its responsibilities. Since 2011 the Committee has retained Radford, an Aon Hewitt company, to provide analysis, advice, and guidance with respect to executive compensation. At the request of the Committee, Radford developed specific executive compensation analyses and recommendations for Logitech's Chairman, CEO, and executive officers for fiscal year 2014. For fiscal year 2014, at the request of the Compensation Committee, Radford provided advice and recommendations to the committee on competitiveness of executive officer compensation levels, the Company's compensation peer group, goal metrics and bonus design, compensation mix between cash and equity, type of equity arrangements, employment contract provisions, executive severance packages, executive officer hiring packages, developments in high technology compensation programs, trends in executive compensation for the Silicon Valley and Europe, legislation and regulations affecting executive compensation in the United States and Switzerland, and the impact of the global economy on executive compensation and director compensation. Logitech paid fees of less than $100,000 to various divisions and subsidiaries of Aon Corporation for services not related to executive compensation consulting services. The majority of these additional services consisted of activities Radford or Aon Hewitt have provided to Logitech for several years, and include the purchase of Radford's industry compensation surveys, the accounting valuations of equity grants, and the calculation of PSU grant performance. During fiscal year 2013, the SEC issued rules under the Dodd-Frank Act concerning compensation consultant independence. Under these rules the 107 Table of Contents Compensation Committee must determine whether any work completed by a compensation consultant raised any conflict of interest after taking into account six independence-related factors. The Compensation Committee has reviewed these six factors as they apply to Radford and has concluded there is no conflict of interest. Role of Management in Compensation Decisions Management makes recommendations to the Compensation Committee with respect to both the design of compensation programs and specific compensation decisions. The Committee reviews the recommendations with its independent compensation consultant, deliberates and approves the executive officers' compensation. The Committee does so independently without the presence of an executive officer during deliberations or decision making on his or her compensation. The fiscal year 2014 executive officer compensation proposals for base salary, bonus targets, and equity grant values were developed by Radford and presented to both the Compensation Committee and Logitech's management. Based on the analysis performed by Radford, Logitech's then-Vice President of Worldwide Human Resources and its compensation department, in consultation with Guerrino De Luca, Logitech's Chairman, and Bracken Darrell, Logitech's Chief Executive Officer, provided specific recommendations to the Compensation Committee. As part of the annual personnel review and succession planning process, Mr. Darrell also provided the Board and the Compensation Committee with his perspective on the performance of Logitech's executive officers. This performance feedback provided additional input to the Committee when making its decisions on fiscal year 2014 compensation. Overview of Factors Considered by Committee The Compensation Committee considers a variety of factors when determining total executive compensation, including: Competitive considerations. Subjective elements, such as the scope of the executive's role, experience and skills and the individual's performance during the prior fiscal year and potential for future contribution to Logitech. The performance of Logitech in the prior fiscal year. The performance of Logitech in the prior fiscal year relative to the Company's compensation peer group and the overall technology industry. Accrued and realized gains from past equity incentive awards. The need to retain key executives during Logitech's challenging turnaround period. Competitive considerations Both peer group and broader industry compensation survey data is used by our Compensation Committee when setting Logitech's executive compensation, as well as to assist the Compensation Committee in the evaluation of the design of bonus plan and equity compensation programs. The companies in Logitech's peer group were selected in February 2011, and are reviewed annually, in partnership with Radford Consulting, based on (i) involvement in the PC-based consumer electronics industry, or (ii) revenues approximately equal to Logitech's and a presence near Silicon Valley in the San Francisco Bay Area. Although Logitech is a Swiss company, Logitech primarily competes for executive management talent with technology companies in the United States, and particularly in the 108 Table of Contents high-technology area of Silicon Valley. As a result, the peer group consists primarily of U.S. public technology companies. For fiscal year 2014, the compensation peer group consisted of: Activision Blizzard, Inc. Electronic Arts, Inc. Plantronics Agilent Technologies, Inc. Intuit, Inc. Polycom, Inc. Analog Devices, Inc. Lexmark International, Inc. SanDisk Corporation Autodesk, Inc. NetApp, Inc. Take-Two Interactive BMC Software, Inc. Nuance Communications, Inc. VeriFone Systems, Inc. Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. NVIDIA Corporation At the time the fiscal year 2014 executive compensation review was performed, in March 2014, Logitech ranked at approximately the 31 st percentile among the peer group for revenues, and lowest for market capitalization and for income. Nevertheless, the Compensation Committee believed at the time of the fiscal year 2014 compensation decisions that the compensation peer group was representative of the companies with which Logitech competed for talent and accordingly, against which Logitech should benchmark its compensation. 75th Percentile $ 4,223 $ 505 $ 13,328 50th Percentile 2,701 245 6,304 25th Percentile 1,866 106 2,244 Logitech 2,163 (164 ) 1,175 Most recently available four quarters as of March 2013. Market Capitaliztion as of March 15, 2013. Produced by Radford. In addition, to assist the Compensation Committee in its review of executive compensation, Logitech's compensation department provides compensation data compiled from widely recognized high-technology executive compensation surveys. Effect of individual performance The differences in compensation among the individual named executive officers, as disclosed in the Summary Compensation Table on page 123, were primarily related to market compensation in each position, based on compensation peer group and survey data, a subjective assessment of the executive's impact on the Company's past and future performance, succession planning, and retention. Other factors For new-hire executives, in addition to market compensation for the position, consideration is given to the base salary of the individual at his or her prior employment, any unique personal circumstances that motivated the executive to leave that prior position and join Logitech, the Company's needs and the perceived competitive environments in recruiting the executive. Timing of compensation decisions Executive compensation (base salary, target bonus, and equity grants) is typically reviewed and actions are taken at the start of the fiscal year in order to align all compensation actions, and the related performance periods, with the fiscal year or multiple fiscal years. The Compensation Committee may also make executive compensation decisions at other times during the fiscal year in the event of an executive new hire or promotion or other reasons. 109 Table of Contents ELEMENTS OF COMPENSATION The following table outlines our objectives for each of the principal components of our executive compensation programs: Base salary Reward individuals for their current contributions to the Company Compensate individuals for their expected day-to-day service Performance-based cash compensation Align executive compensation with Logitech's annual performance goals Make a significant portion of the executive's annual cash compensation variable and subject to the achievement of Board-approved, Company-oriented business goals Motivate and reward the executive for above-target performance Long-term equity incentive awards Deliver the majority of total potential compensation via long-term equity incentives Align executive and shareholder interests Provide a direct incentive for future performance Support pay for performance and retention of our executive team Our executive officers are also eligible to participate in the health and benefits plans, retirement savings plans, and our employee share purchase plans that are generally available to similarly-situated employees. We also provide limited perquisites, as described in "Other Compensation ElementsPerquisites" below. Pay Mix In determining how we allocate an executive's total compensation package among base salary, performance-based cash compensation, and long-term equity incentives, we emphasize compensation elements that reward performance against measures that correlate closely with increases in shareholder value. Accordingly, the majority of our executive compensation is at-risk, including the annual performance-based cash bonus and the majority of our long-term equity incentive grants. Our CEO and other executive officers have a higher percentage of at-risk compensation (and thus greater upside potential and downside risk) relative to Logitech's other employees. The charts below indicate the percentage of total compensation in fiscal year 2014 represented by base salary, performance-based cash compensation, and long-term equity incentive awards for our Chief Executive Officer, Bracken Darrell, and for all other named executive officers who remained executive officers through fiscal year 2014 as well as Vincent Pilette who joined the Company in the middle of the fiscal year. All underlying amounts are taken from the Summary Compensation Table on page 123. We design our programs to have the largest portion of potential compensation to be based on long-term performance (equity), the next largest portion based on short-term performance (annual performance bonus), and the smallest portion as base salary. Our actual fiscal year 2014 pay mix reflects this design philosophy. While the pay mix for each executive officer varies based on individual 110 Table of Contents circumstances, executive officers in the aggregate received approximately 15% of their annual compensation in base salary, 15% in annual bonus, and 70% in equity. (1) Includes executive officers, other than Mr. Darrell, as of the end of fiscal year 2014: Messrs. De Luca, Pilette, Stolk, and Sullivan. Base salary In setting base salary levels for fiscal year 2014, the Compensation Committee considered each executive's pay against similar roles among our compensation peer group companies, based on data provided in March 2014 by Radford, overall salary increase trends for executive officers, and each executive's performance over the past year. In fiscal year 2014, we only provided salary increases to Mr. Stolk and Mr. Sullivan. Mr. Stolk received a 7.3% merit and market adjustment increase based on performance and his position relative to the median for our compensation peer group companies. Mr. Sullivan received a 3.2% merit-based increase based on performance. Guerrino De Luca 500,000 500,000 0 % Bracken P. Darrell 750,000 750,000 0 % Vincent Pilette (1) 500,000 n/a n/a L. Joseph Sullivan 415,000 402,000 3 % Marcel Stolk 513,000 478,301 7 % (1) Mr. Pilette joined the Company as Chief Financial Officer on September 3, 2013. Performance-based cash compensation Logitech's annual performance-based bonuses, under the Logitech Management Performance Bonus Plan, "Bonus Plan", compensate executives based on achievement against the key financial metrics of revenue and operating income, which are equally weighted. These metrics address both "top line" (revenue) and "bottom line" (operating income) corporate financial goals. In addition, for executive officers who are business group or regional leaders we factor in metrics with respect to their respective areas of responsibility, all of which the Committee believes are critical to driving long-term shareholder value. 111 Table of Contents The Bonus Plan is designed to motivate and reward executives for above-target performance. The annual performance-based bonuses represent a significant portion of each executive's potential annual cash compensation, ranging from 40% to 50% of annual targeted cash compensation. Payout under the incentive plan is variable, based on the achievement against Logitech's financial goals, and for fiscal year 2014 can range from 0% to 200% of the executive's target incentive. Named executive officer bonus targets for fiscal year 2014 In fiscal year 2014, the bonus targets as a percentage of base salary for our named executive officers remained the same as those in fiscal year 2013. The cash bonus target percentages for fiscal year 2014 are summarized in the table below. For Mr. De Luca and Mr. Darrell the Bonus Plan is designed to pay 100% of their individual target bonus opportunity for on target performance. For the Leadership Team, defined as management team members who report directly to Mr. Darrell, the Bonus Plan was designed to pay 90% of the individual's bonus target opportunity for on target performance. The remaining 10% of the total target bonuses of the Leadership Team members was allocated to a bonus pool to be allocated to members of the Leadership Team at the discretion of Mr. Darrell based on predetermined criteria and objectives. These recommendations were approved by the Compensation Committee. The target bonus opportunities for named executive officers in fiscal year 2014 are at the median of our compensation peer group, based on peer group data provided by the Compensation Committee's independent compensation consultant in March 2013. Guerrino De Luca 100 % 100 % 0 % Bracken P. Darrell 100 % 100 % 0 % Vincent Pilette 80 % n/a n/a Marcel Stolk 80 % 75 % n/a (1) L. Joseph Sullivan 75 % 75 % 0 % (1) In fiscal year 2013, Mr. Stolk was eligible for an additional special cash incentive bonus of CHF 67,500 which was guaranteed as part of his fiscal year 2012 employment contract. This element of his compensation was discontinued for fiscal year 2014. 112 Table of Contents Performance measures for fiscal year 2014 bonus program In fiscal year 2014, the Bonus Plan was based on the following performance measures: Revenue Revenue growth is an essential component of long-term success and viability and enables future strategic investments. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Adjusted Operating Income Generating an increase in per-share value for investors is a priority, as operating profit allows Logitech to re-invest in R&D, operations and people for future success. GAAP, excluding restructuring and one-time transaction charges related to acquisitions and divestitures. Business Group/Region Metrics Measures specific to the performance of the Business Group/Region for which the executive is responsible. Varies by the metric. For all named executive officers, the 2014 Bonus Plan goals were set equal to Logitech's annual business plan for fiscal year 2014 as approved by the Board of Directors in March 2013. All named executive officers' bonuses were based on achievement against Logitech's revenue and operating income goals other than the 10% portion that was pooled to be allocated by the Compensation Committee after the CEO's recommendations. Please see further details below under the heading "Bonus Plan performance targets and results for fiscal year 2014." For any bonus payment to be made under the fiscal year 2014 Bonus Plan, the minimum performance requirements must both be met for each of the plan metrics: Logitech Revenue no less than 94% of target performance and Logitech Operating Income no less than 66% of target performance. Bonus Plan performance targets and results for fiscal year 2014 The performance targets, actual performance, and funding percentages from the Bonus Plan in fiscal year 2014 for our executive officers are set out in the following table: Guerrino De Luca Bracken P. Darrell Revenue (50%) 2,075.4 2,123.0 102 % Vincent Pilette Adjusted Operating Income (50%) 75.9 96.9 128 % L. Joseph Sullivan 115 % Marcel Stolk Combined Corporate Revenue (25%), Corporate Operating Income (25%), Business Group Metrics (50%) 119 % All executive officers 116 % 113 Table of Contents Annual performance-based cash payments for fiscal year 2014 The cash bonus awards earned and paid in respect of fiscal year 2014 were based on the performance measures and results set forth above. The following table details the annual performance-based cash payments for each executive officer. Guerrino De Luca $ 575,000 $ Bracken P. Darrell 862,500 Vincent Pilette(1) 512,000 n/a L. Joseph Sullivan(2) 385,950 Marcel Stolk(3) 521,208 67,500 (1) The Compensation Committee did not pro-rate for time of service Mr. Pilette's fiscal year 2014 bonus based on his accomplishments in reducing operating expenses, driving operating leverage and delivering shareholder value during the portion of fiscal year 2014 during which he was with the Company. (2) Mr. Sullivan received a portion of his fiscal year 2014 bonus in Logitech shares as required by the Company Executive Share Ownership Program. (3) In fiscal year 2013, Mr. Stolk received a special cash incentive bonus of CHF 67,500 which was guaranteed as part of his fiscal year 2012 employment contract. Long-term equity incentive awards During fiscal year 2014, the Compensation Committee granted our executive officers, excluding Mr. Pilette who received a new-hire grant at the start of his employment in September 2013, annual long-term equity incentive awards in the form of performance-based restricted stock units, or PSUs and time-based restricted stock units, or RSUs. In fiscal year 2013, the Compensation Committee granted the executive officers Performance Stock Options, or PSOs, with vesting tied to specific share price points. The use of PSUs with vesting tied to performance against the NASDAQ-100 Index is a return to the Company's practice from fiscal year 2012. In the Committee's view, the return to the use of PSUs is consistent with industry practice. PSUs. Sixty percent (60%) of the value at grant (based on the assumptions used for financial account purposes) of the fiscal year 2014 equity awards were in the form of PSUs. The PSUs are "at-risk" compensation because Logitech's relative total shareholder return performance must be at or above the minimum threshold percentile against the NASDAQ-100 Index over the performance period of three years in order for the executive to receive any shares from the PSU grant. If, at the end of the performance period, threshold performance is achieved, the number of shares in which the executive officer vests is pro-rated according to performance. The performance measure for the performance-based restricted stock units granted in fiscal year 2014 is the relative total shareholder return, or TSR, expressed as a percentile rank, of Logitech shares against the TSR of companies included in the NASDAQ-100 Index. The Compensation Committee believes this measure is a key reflection of Logitech's operational and financial performance, because it focuses on relative performance against other mid- to large-size technology companies. 114 Table of Contents For purposes of the PSUs, relative TSR reflects (i) the aggregate change in the 30-day average closing price of Logitech shares against the companies in the NASDAQ-100 Index, and (ii) the value (if any) returned to shareholders in the form of dividends or similar distributions, assumed to be reinvested in shares when paid, each at the beginning and the end of a three-year performance period. The structure of the PSUs granted in fiscal year 2014 is summarized in the table below: Below 30 th Percentile Rank (threshold) 0 % 30 th Percentile Rank 50 % 60 th Percentile Rank (target) 100 % 75 th Percentile Rank and Above 150 % The Compensation Committee utilizes PSUs for executive officers to align Logitech's equity compensation for executives more closely with the interests of shareholders. The PSUs are also intended to: Link compensation to key financial metrics of growth and profitability. Provide vesting based on Logitech's stock price performance relative to a benchmark (in this case the NASDAQ-100 Index). Require strong performance for target or any substantial vesting to occur, and provide an extraordinary payout if Logitech's performance significantly exceeds that of the benchmark group. Support pay-for-performance philosophy and retention efforts. Be less dilutive to shareholders than stock options. RSUs. Forty percent (40%) of the value of the fiscal year 2014 focal equity awards was granted in the form of restricted stock units. Time-based restricted stock units, or RSUs, provide for the issuance of shares at a future date upon vesting of the RSUs. With the exception of the new-hire awards granted to Mr. Pilette and the special award granted to Mr. De Luca in recognition of past service to the Company, RSUs granted to our executive officers in fiscal year 2014 have our typical four-year vesting period which vest in four equal annual installments. The Compensation Committee believes RSUs create incentives for performance and further align the interests of executives with those of shareholders because an RSU's value increases or decreases in conjunction with the Company's stock price. Because the value at grant of RSUs is generally greater than that of stock options, we are able to grant a smaller number of RSUs while delivering similar grant-date award value. As a result, granting RSUs helps minimize the dilutive effects of our equity awards on our shareholders and, in the Committee's view, provides a more cost-effective balance of incentive and risk than standard stock options. Long-term equity incentive awards granted in fiscal year 2014 For fiscal year 2014, management recommended and the Compensation Committee approved long-term incentive grant values for each named executive officer at approximately the 25th percentiles of grant values for comparable executives at our compensation peer group companies. Based on the poor performance in the previous fiscal year, the Compensation Committee determined that our executive officers must build Logitech's value at a rate greater than the overall market to receive equity values in line with those of our compensation peer group companies. For our executives to earn market levels of equity value, Logitech would have to outperform the market in terms of stock price appreciation. The Compensation Committee also made judgments on the performance and relative impact of each executive 115 Table of Contents officer and the importance of retaining each executive through the coming year and beyond. Grants were made to the executive officers as follows: Grants to Mr. De Luca. On April 15, 2013, Mr. De Luca received a PSU grant for 30,000 shares, assuming 100% target performance, and an RSU grant of 20,000 shares, as part of his fiscal year 2014 annual compensation as Chairman. In addition, Mr. De Luca received an RSU grant of 250,000 shares in recognition for his service as Logitech's acting Chief Executive Officer from July 2011 through January 2013 as noted below under Other Compensation. Grants to Mr. Darrell. On April 15, 2013, as part of the annual executive compensation review, Mr. Darrell received a PSU grant for 270,000 shares at target, and an RSU grant of 177,000 shares. Grants to Other Executive Officers. The equity incentive award grants made to all Logitech executive officers during fiscal year 2014 are set out in the Grants of Plan-Based Awards in Fiscal Year 2014 table on page 125. The following table illustrates the grant date fair values, which is the accounting cost to Logitech, of the equity awards that each executive officer received in fiscal year 2014 and 2013. The grant date fair values in fiscal year 2014 decreased from those in fiscal year 2013 (except for Mr. De Luca due to the special grant described above) due to the fiscal year 2014 grant values being set at approximately the 25 th percentile of our compensation peer group, compared to the fiscal year 2013 grant values that were slightly below the 50 th percentile of our compensation peer group. 116 Table of Contents The table also illustrates the total shares underlying the equity awards that each executive officer received in fiscal year 2014 and 2013. The number of shares granted decreased significantly due to the return to granting full-value PSUs from the PSOs awarded in fiscal year 2013. Guerrino De Luca PSOs 130,000 -100 % 335,400 -100 % RSUs(2) 270,000 100 % 2,457,700 100 % PSUs 30,000 100 % 226,500 100 % 300,000 130,000 131 % 2,684,200 335,400 700 % Bracken P. Darrell PPOs 1,200,000 -100 % 3,020,000 -100 % RSUs 177,000 100,000 77 % 1,240,770 803,000 55 % PSUs 270,000 100 % 2,038,500 100 % Options 500,000 -100 % 1,820,000 -100 % 447,000 1,800,000 -75 % 3,279,270 5,643,000 -42 % Vincent Pilette(3) RSUs 370,000 n/a 100 % 3,111,700 n/a 100 % PSUs 295,000 n/a 100 % 1,955,850 n/a 100 % 665,000 n/a 100 % 5,067,550 n/a 100 % Marcel Stolk RSUs 60,000 n/a 100 % 420,600 n/a 100 % PSUs 90,000 n/a 100 % 679,500 n/a 100 % 150,000 n/a 100 % 1,100,100 n/a 100 % L. Joseph Sullivan PSOs 225,000 100 % 580,500 100 % RSUs 40,000 100 % 280,400 100 % PSUs 60,000 33,000 82 % 453,000 258,390 75 % 100,000 258,000 -61 % 733,400 838,890 -13 % (1) Grant date fair value represents the accounting cost to Logitech associated with equity awards. The actual equity award value delivered to each named executive officer may be considerably lower or higher than the grant date fair value of the award. The actual equity award value delivered depends on, in the case of performance-based awards such as PSUs, whether or not the minimum performance condition is met, and, if so, the level of performance. Actual equity award value delivered also is significantly impacted by appreciation or depreciation in Logitech's share price between the grant and vesting dates. (2) Mr. De Luca received an RSU grant of 20,000 shares, as part of his fiscal year 2014 annual compensation as Chairman as well as an RSU grant of 250,000 shares in recognition for his service as Logitech's acting Chief Executive Officer from July 2011 through January 2013 as noted below under Other Compensation. (3) Mr. Pilette joined the Company as Chief Financial Officer on September 3, 2013. Determination of long-term equity incentive awards The Compensation Committee is responsible for approving who should receive equity incentive awards, when the awards should be made, the vesting schedule, and the number of shares or other rights to 117 Table of Contents be granted. Long-term equity incentive awards may be granted only by the Compensation Committee or the full Board of Directors. The Compensation Committee regularly reports its activity, including approvals of grants, to the Board. Timing of grants Long-term equity incentive award grants to executive officers are typically and predominantly approved at regularly scheduled, predetermined meetings of the Compensation Committee. These meeting are scheduled up to 18 months in advance and take place before the regularly scheduled, predetermined meetings of the full Board. On limited occasions, grants may be approved at an interim meeting of the Compensation Committee or by consent, for the purpose of approving the hiring and compensation package for newly hired or promoted executives. In fiscal year 2014 grants were made to new hires and promoted employees, including those at the executive officer level, through regularly scheduled monthly written consents of the Compensation Committee. We do not have any program, plan, or practice to select equity compensation grant dates in coordination with the release of material non-public information, nor do we time the release of information for the purpose of affecting value. We do not backdate options or grant options retroactively. OTHER COMPENSATION ELEMENTS Other compensation On September 4, 2013, the Compensation Committee granted a cash bonus of $460,000 and an RSU grant of 250,000 shares to Mr. De Luca in recognition for his service as Logitech's acting Chief Executive Officer from July 2011 through January 2013. The Compensation Committee set a two-year vesting term and provided for acceleration in case Mr. De Luca was involuntarily removed from his role as Chairman. Mr. De Luca's compensation had not been adjusted since he assumed these additional responsibilities. After almost a year of deliberations on the appropriate method of such recognition, this special bonus was based on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee's independent compensation consultant and a comparison of Mr. De Luca's compensation during his tenure as acting Chief Executive Officer to the Company's peer group. Deferred compensation plan Executive officers based in the United States are also eligible to participate in the Logitech Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan and a predecessor plan, which are unfunded and unsecured plans that allow employees of Logitech Inc., the Logitech subsidiary in the United States, who earn more than a threshold amount the opportunity to defer U.S. taxes on up to 80% of their base salary and up to 90% of their bonus or commission compensation. Under the plan, compensation may be deferred until termination of employment or other specified dates chosen by the participants, and deferred amounts are credited with earnings based on investment benchmarks chosen by the participants from a number of mutual funds selected by Logitech Inc.'s Deferred Compensation Committee. The earnings credited to the participants are intended to be funded solely by the plan investments. Logitech does not make contributions to this plan. Information regarding named executive officer participation in the deferred compensation plans can be found in the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation for Fiscal Year 2014 table and the accompanying narrative. Because the listed officers do not receive preferential or above-market rates of return under the deferred compensation plan, earnings under the plan are not included in the Summary Compensation table, but are included in the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation table. 118 Table of Contents Severance and related benefits All named executive officers are eligible to receive benefits under certain conditions in accordance with Logitech's Change of Control Severance Agreement (Change of Control Agreement), as described in the section "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control." The purpose of the Change of Control Agreements is to support retention in the event of a prospective change of control. Should a change of control occur, benefits will be paid after a "double trigger" eventmeaning that there has been both a change of control, and the executive is terminated without cause or resigns for good reason within 12 months thereafteras described in "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control". The RSU and PSU award agreements for executive officers other than Guerrino De Luca provide for the acceleration of vesting of the RSUs and PSUs subject to the award agreements under the same circumstances and conditions as under the Change of Control Agreements; namely, if the named executive officer is subject to an involuntary termination within 12 months after a change of control because his or her employment is terminated without cause or the executive resigns for good reason (a "double trigger"). In the event of such an involuntary termination: All shares subject to the RSUs will vest. 100% of the shares subject to the PSUs will vest if the change of control occurred within 1 year after the grant date of the PSUs. If the change of control occurs more than 1 year after the grant date of the PSUs, the number of shares subject to the PSU that will vest will be determined by applying the performance criteria under the PSUs as if the performance period had ended on the date of the change of control. To determine the level of benefits to be provided under each change of control agreement and other agreements, the Committee considered the circumstances of each type of severance, the impact on shareholders, and market practices. Logitech does not provide any payments to reimburse its executive officers for additional taxes incurred (also known as "gross-ups") in connection with a change of control. These Agreements are being reviewed by the Compensation Committee with respect to complying with the Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation in connection with the Minder initiative under Swiss law. Under Mr. Pilette's employment agreement, if his employment is involuntarily terminated without cause or he resigns for good reason, other than after a change of control, he is entitled to his base salary and target bonus for one year and accelerated vesting of a portion of his new hire RSU grant of 175,000 shares (as of September 15, 2014, 116,666 shares from this grant remain unvested), and, if he is terminated within his first year of employment, accelerated vesting of his entire restricted stock unit grant for 195,000 shares (as of September 15, 2014, this grant was completely vested). The terms in Mr. Pilette's agreement are intended to provide consideration for his service to Logitech and the potential length of time until subsequent employment is secured if he is involuntarily terminated without cause or resigns for good reason. The Compensation Committee believes that the terms of Mr. Pilette's severance are consistent with those of chief financial officers in our compensation peer group as well as the overall technology industry. Perquisites Logitech's executive officer benefit programs are substantially the same as for all other eligible employees. 119 Table of Contents Other Benefits Logitech's executive officers are eligible to receive the same benefits as all similarly-situated employees, including the following: Company contributions to retirement programs are based on the location of employing company, such as the Logitech Inc. 401(k) in the United States and the Logitech Employee Pension Fund in Switzerland. Health, welfare, and life insurance benefits. Opportunity for participation in the Logitech Employee Share Purchase Plans. VINCENT PILETTE'S NEW HIRE PACKAGE In September 2013, Mr. Pilette joined Logitech as Chief Financial Officer. When establishing Mr. Pilette's compensation package, the Compensation Committee based its decisions on competitive market data for chief financial officer positions provided by the Compensation Committee's independent compensation consultant, as well as the compensation and benefits package Mr. Pilette had with his previous employer and the Compensation Committee's perception of what was required to secure and maintain his employment. The Compensation Committee positioned Mr. Pilette's target cash compensation package at the 50 th percentile of the market for chief financial officers. Mr. Pilette's base salary is $500,000 and his annual bonus target percentage is 80%. Mr. Pilette's equity package consisted of (i) 175,000 RSUs to provide a meaningful upside for success in managing costs to provide for profitability and operating leverage (as of September 15, 2014, 116,666 shares from this grant remain unvested); (ii) 195,000 RSUs to offset a portion of the earned, but unvested long-term incentives Mr. Pilette lost when leaving his former employer (this grant is fully vested); (iii) 147,500 performance stock units, or PSUs, that vest when Logitech's average closing price per share on the Nasdaq Global Select Market over a 90 calendar day period meets or exceeds $12.00 (this grant is fully vested); and (iv) 147,500 performance stock units, or PSUs, that vest when Logitech's average closing price per share on the Nasdaq Global Select Market over a 90 calendar day period meets or exceeds $14.00 (this grant is fully vested). FORMER OFFICERS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2014 Erik K. Bardman, Former Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Bardman resigned his employment with us effective as of April 26, 2013. He was only with the Company for the first three weeks of fiscal year 2014 and was paid a base salary of $38,462 for his service during the period based on an annual base salary of $484,000. Upon Mr. Bardman's termination of employment, he received $57,694 as payment for the value of his accrued but unused Personal Time Off Leave balance. In addition, Mr. Bardman received a 401(k) match of $5,063 and premiums of $201were paid on his behalf for Group Term Life Insurance. Michael Doktorczyk, Former Interim Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer Mr. Doktorczyk served as interim Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer from May 29, 2013 until September 3, 2013. Mr. Doktorczyk was the Company's Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller throughout fiscal year 2014, but he was not an executive officer. As a result, the Compensation Committee was not responsible for determining Mr. Doktorczyk's fiscal year 2014 compensation. For fiscal year 2014 his base salary was $255,555, and he received an annual incentive plan bonus of $60,504. In addition, Mr. Doktorczyk was granted a stock award valued at $69,109. Because Mr. Doktorczyk was not an executive officer, he was not eligible to participate in any of the compensation 120 Table of Contents programs for our other named executive officers that are set forth above. Mr. Doktorczyk's compensation was not influenced by his interim roles. OTHER COMPENSATION POLICIES Derivatives We do not permit certain persons designated by the Company as insiders, including executive officers and directors, to trade in puts, calls, warrants or other derivative Logitech securities traded on an exchange or in any other organized securities market. Recovery of compensation for restatement and misconduct In June 2010, the Compensation Committee adopted a policy regarding the recovery of compensation paid to an executive officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company (a "clawback"). Under the terms of the policy we may recover bonus amounts, equity awards or other incentive compensation awarded or paid within the prior three years to a covered officer if the Compensation Committee determines the compensation was based on any performance goals that were met or exceeded as a result, in whole or in part, of the officer's fraud or misconduct, or the officer knew at the time of the existence of fraud or misconduct that resulted in performance goals being met or exceeded, and a lower amount would otherwise have been awarded or paid to the officer. In addition, under the policy Logitech may recover gains realized on the exercise of stock options or on the sale of vested shares by an executive officer or the principal accounting officer if, within three years after the date of the gains or sales, Logitech discloses the need for a significant financial restatement, other than a financial restatement solely because of revisions to US GAAP, and the Compensation Committee determines that the officer's fraud or misconduct caused or partially caused the need for the restatement, or the covered officer knew at the time of the existence of fraud or misconduct that resulted in the need for such restatement. In addition, our 2006 Stock Incentive Plan and our Management Performance Bonus Plan provide that awards under the plans are suspended or forfeited if the plan participant, whether or not an executive officer: has committed an act of embezzlement, fraud or breach of fiduciary duty; makes an unauthorized disclosure of any Logitech trade secret or confidential information; or induces any customer to breach a contract with Logitech. Any decision to suspend or cause a forfeiture of any award held by an executive officer under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan or the Management Performance Bonus Plan is subject to the approval of the Board of Directors. The Compensation Committee will amend the policy, as necessary, to comply with the final SEC rules regarding the recoupment policies of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Additional tax and accounting considerations U.S. Tax Code Section 162(m) Favorable accounting and tax treatment of the various elements of our compensation program is a relevant consideration in their design. However, the Company and the Committee have placed a higher priority on structuring flexible compensation programs to promote the recruitment, retention, and performance of our officers than on maximizing tax deductibility. Section 162(m) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Tax Code"), places a limit of $1,000,000 on the amount of compensation that Logitech may deduct in any one year with respect to certain executive officers. The Committee has the ability through the use of Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan to grant awards that qualify as "performance-based compensation" exempt from that $1,000,000 limitation 121 Table of Contents but, to maintain flexibility in compensating executive officers in a manner designed to promote varying corporate goals, the Committee has not adopted a policy requiring all compensation to be deductible, and has in the past and will in the future make grants of compensation that do not qualify to be exempt from the $1,000,000 limitation when it believes that it is appropriate to meet its compensation objectives. In addition to considering the tax consequences, the Compensation Committee considers the accounting consequences, including the impact of the Financial Accounting Standard Board's Accounting Standards Codification Section 718, on its decisions in determining the forms of different equity awards. Compensation Risks Assessment Since March 2010, the Compensation Committee has conducted an annual review, with the assistance of the Committee's independent compensation consultant; of Logitech's compensation programs to assess the risks associated with their design and associated risk controls. The Committee reviews in particular the following compensation programs and associated practices: Equity grants made under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. Management Performance Bonus Plan. Employee Performance Bonus Plan. Sales Commission Plans. Change of Control Severance Agreements in place with executive officers. As in past years, based on the March 2014 review, the Compensation Committee has concluded that our compensation policies and practices do not create risks that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company. REPORT OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE The Logitech Compensation Committee, which is composed solely of independent members of the Logitech Board of Directors, assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to compensation matters. The Compensation Committee has reviewed and discussed the "Compensation Discussion and Analysis" section of this Compensation Report with management. Based on this review and discussion, the Compensation Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in Logitech's 2014 Invitation and Proxy Statement and Annual Report. Compensation Committee MATTHEW BOUSQUETTE, Chairman KEE-LOCK CHUA (1) SALLY DAVIS NEIL HUNT MONIKA RIBAR (1) Kee-Lock Chua was a member of the Compensation Committee though the Annual General Meeting in September 2013. 122 Table of Contents SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE The following table provides information regarding the compensation and benefits earned during fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012 by our named executive officers. For more information, please refer to "Compensation Disclosure and Analysis," as well as "Narrative Disclosure to Summary Compensation Table and Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table." Guerrino De Luca(4) FY14 500,000 460,000 2,684,200 575,000 15,764 4,234,964 Chairman of the Board FY13 500,000 335,400 31,314 866,714 FY12 500,000 392,400 30,306 922,706 Bracken P. Darrell(5) FY14 750,000 3,279,270 862,500 13,767 4,905,537 President and Chief Executive Officer FY13 735,577 803,000 4,840,000 226,164 6,604,741 Vincent Pilette(6) FY14 286,538 5,067,550 512,000 2,673 5,868,761 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Marcel Stolk(7) FY14 535,714 1,100,100 589,643 108,785 2,334,242 Senior Vice President, CCP Business Group L. Joseph Sullivan FY14 415,000 733,400 385,950 14,418 1,548,768 Senior Vice-President, Worldwide FY13 402,000 258,390 580,500 12,358 1,253,248 Operations FY12 402,000 557,400 11,762 971,162 Former Officers: Erik K. Bardman(8) FY14 38,462 62,958 101,420 Senior Vice President, Finance and FY13 484,000 336,690 774,000 9,553 1,604,243 Chief Financial Officer FY12 440,000 25,000 789,000 9,278 1,263,278 Michael Doktorczyk(9) FY14 255,555 69,109 60,504 385,168 Former Interim Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer (1) These amounts do not represent the actual economic value realized by the named executive officer. Under SEC rules, the values reported in the "Stock Awards" and "Option Awards" columns reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of grants of stock options and stock awards to each of the listed officers in the fiscal years shown. The key assumptions and methodology of valuation of stock options and stock awards are presented in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Logitech's Annual Report to Shareholders. For FY14: Assuming the highest level of performance is achieved, the maximum possible value of the PSUs allocated in FY14, using the market value of our shares on the grant date of the PSUs, was: (a) in the case of Mr. Guerrino De Luca, $315,450; (b) in the case of Mr. Bracken P. Darrell, $2,839,050; (c) in the case of Mr. Marcel Stolk, $946,350; and (d) in the case of Mr. Joseph Sullivan, $630,900. For FY12: Assuming the highest level of performance is achieved, the maximum possible value of the PSUs allocated in FY12, using the market value of our shares on the grant date of the PSUs, was: (a) in the case of Mr. Guerrino De Luca, $588,600; (b) in the case of Mr. Erik Bardman, Mr. Junien Labrousse and Mr. Werner Heid, $686,700 each; and (c) in the case of Mr. Joseph Sullivan, $490,500. (2) Reflects amounts earned under the Logitech Management Performance Bonus Plan. This non-equity incentive plan compensation was earned during the applicable fiscal year but, for executive officers, was paid during the next fiscal year in accordance with the terms of the Logitech Management Performance Bonus Plan. For Mr. Doktorczyk, this non-equity incentive plan compensation was earned during fiscal year 2014 under the Logitech Employee Performance Bonus Plan. (3) Details regarding the various amounts included in this column are provided in the following table entitled "All Other Compensation." (4) Mr. De Luca received a bonus of $460,000 in September 2013 in recognition for his service as Logitech's acting Chief Executive Officer from July 2011 through January 2013. (5) Mr. Darrell joined the Company as President on April 9, 2012 and was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective January 1, 2013. (6) Mr. Pilette joined the Company as Chief Financial Officer on September 3, 2013. (7) Mr. Stolk was designated as an executive officer in September 2013. (8) Mr. Bardman's service as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer ended upon his departure from the Company on April 26, 2013. (9) Mr. Doktorczyk served as interim Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer from May 29, 2013 until September 3, 2013. Mr. Doktorczyk was the Company's Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller throughout fiscal year 2014, but he was not an executive officer. 123 Table of Contents All Other Compensation Table Guerrino De Luca FY14 7,650 8,114 15,764 FY13 15,882 7,500 7,932 31,314 FY12 16,679 7,350 6,277 30,306 Bracken P. Darrell FY14 1,525 7,650 4,592 13,767 FY13 5,063 3,321 202,780 15,000 226,164 Vincent Pilette FY14 1,731 942 2,673 Marcel Stolk FY14 3,268 105,517 108,785 L. Joseph Sullivan FY14 7,650 6,768 14,418 FY13 7,500 4,858 12,358 FY12 7,350 4,412 11,762 Former Officers: Erik K. Bardman FY14 5,063 201 57,694 62,958 FY13 7,500 2,053 9,553 FY12 7,350 1,928 9,278 Michael Doktorczyk FY14 7,650 7,650 (1) Represents the cost to Logitech of $15,882 and $16,679 in fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to Mr. Guerrino De Luca's occasional use of a company car and driver to and from work. (2) Represents 401(k) savings plan matching contributions, which are available to all of our regular employees who are on our U.S. payroll. (3) Represents costs associated with Mr.Darrell's relocation from Switzerland to the United States in fiscal year 2013, including airfare, home purchase and sales assistance, tax advice assistance, moving costs, temporary living benefits and other costs. (4) Represents the matching contributions to the Logitech Employee Pension Fund in Switzerland for Mr. Marcel Stolk, which are available to all of the Company's similarly-situated regular employees who are on its Swiss payroll. (5) In the case of Mr. Bardman, for fiscal year 2014, he received $57,694 as payment for the value of his accrued but unused Personal Time Off Leave balance. In the case of Mr. Darrell, for fiscal year 2013, this represents a lump sum payment of $15,000, net of taxes, to be applied towards attorney's fees associated with review of his offer of employment. 124 Table of Contents GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS IN FISCAL YEAR 2014 The following table sets forth certain information regarding grants of plan-based awards to each of our executive officers during fiscal year 2014. For more information, please refer to "Compensation Disclosure and Analysis." Grants of Plan-Based Awards For Fiscal Year 2014 Guerrino De Luca RSU 04/15/13 04/15/13 20,000 140,200 RSU(5) 10/15/13 10/15/13 250,000 2,317,500 PSU(6) 04/15/13 04/15/13 15,000 30,000 45,000 226,500 FY14 Bonus n/a n/a 250,000 500,000 1,000,000 575,000 Bracken P. Darrell RSU 04/15/13 04/15/13 177,000 1,240,770 PSU(6) 04/15/13 04/15/13 135,000 270,000 405,000 2,038,500 FY14 Bonus n/a n/a 375,000 750,000 1,500,000 862,500 Vincent Pilette RSU(7) 09/15/13 09/15/13 370,000 3,111,700 PSU(6) 09/15/13 09/15/13 295,000 442,500 1,955,850 FY14 Bonus n/a n/a 200,000 400,000 800,000 512,000 Marcel Stolk RSU 04/15/13 04/15/13 60,000 420,600 PSU(6) 04/15/13 04/15/13 45,000 90,000 135,000 679,500 FY14 Bonus(8) n/a n/a 231,876 463,752 927,504 589,643 L. Joseph Sullivan RSU 04/15/13 04/15/13 40,000 280,400 PSU(6) 04/15/13 04/15/13 30,000 60,000 90,000 453,000 FY14 Bonus n/a n/a 155,625 311,250 622,500 385,950 (1) The amounts in these columns reflect possible payouts with respect to each applicable performance period for the fiscal year 2014 bonus programs under the Bonus Plan. (2) The amounts in this column reflect actual payouts with respect to each applicable performance period for the fiscal year 2014 bonus programs under the Bonus Plan. The actual payout amounts are reflected in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table for fiscal year 2014. (3) Other than the RSU grant in footnote 5, represents RSUs that vest at a rate of 25% per year over four years, on each yearly anniversary of the grant date. (4) These amounts do not represent the actual economic value realized by the named executive officer. Amounts in this column represent the grant date fair value of PSUs and RSUs calculated in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718 but does not include a reduction for forfeitures. For PSUs, that number is calculated by multiplying the value determined using the Monte Carlo method by the target number of units awarded. For RSUs, that number is equal to the closing price of Logitech shares on the grant date multiplied by the number of shares granted. The key assumptions for the valuation of the PSUs are presented in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in [this report] Logitech's Annual Report to Shareholders and Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2014. (5) For Mr. De Luca tthe Compensation Committee set a two-year vesting term with vesting to occur on September 15, 2014 and September 15, 2015. The Compensation Committee also provided for acceleration in case Mr. De Luca was involuntarily removed from his role as Chairman. (6) Represents performance-based RSU ("PSU"). All shares subject to the PSU vesting conditions are unvested. The actual amount, if any, of shares that will vest under the PSU grants will not be known until April 15, 2016. The actual vesting amount will depend upon the prercentile rank of Logitech TSR against NASDAQ-100 Index TSR. (7) Mr. Pilette received two RSU grants when he joined the Company in fiscal year 2014, including 195,000 RSUs with a one year vesting period and 175,000 RSUs that will vest in equal annual increments over three years, on each yearly anniversary of the grant date. (8) Mr. Stolk's bonus amounts were converted using the exchange rate of 1 CHF to 1.13 USD as of March 31, 2014. NARRATIVE DISCLOSURE TO SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE AND GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS TABLE Employment Agreements and Offer Letters We have entered into employment agreements or offer letters with each of our named executive officers. The employment agreements and offer letters generally provide that the compensation of the named executive officer is subject to the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors. Other than Mr. Pilette's compensation as a new hire, the compensation earned by the named executive officers in fiscal year 2014 was not the result of any terms of their employment agreements or offer letters. 125 Table of Contents Performance-Based Vesting Conditions Please refer to "Compensation Disclosure and AnalysisElements of CompensationPerformance-based cash incentive awards" for a discussion of the performance measures applicable to the Bonus Plan during fiscal year 2014. In addition, please refer to "Compensation Disclosure and AnalysisElements of CompensationLong-term equity incentive awards" for a discussion of performance measures under the PSUs granted to executive officers during fiscal year 2014. OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT FISCAL YEAR-END The following table provides information regarding outstanding equity awards for each of our named executive officers as of March 31, 2014. This table includes unexercised and unvested stock options, unexercised and unvested performance stock options, unvested PSUs, and unvested RSUs. Unless otherwise specified, options and RSUs vest at a rate of 25% per year on each of the first four anniversaries of the grant date. Market value for stock options, including Premium Priced Option or PPOs and PSOs, is calculated by taking the difference between the closing price of Logitech shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the last trading day of the fiscal year ($14.89 on March 31, 2014) and the option exercise price, and multiplying it by the number of outstanding options. Market value for stock awards (RSUs and PSUs) is determined by multiplying the number of shares by the closing price of Logitech shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the last trading day of the fiscal year. 126 Table of Contents Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal 2014 Year-End Guerrino De Luca 04/08/04 200,000 17.20 (2) 04/08/14 04/01/05 200,000 20.97 (3) 04/01/15 04/01/06 100,000 20.05 04/01/16 04/02/07 50,000 27.95 04/02/17 04/01/08 15,000 26.67 04/01/18 04/01/09 15,000 10.64 04/01/19 63,750 04/11/11 30,000 446,700 01/04/13 130,000 7.83 01/04/23 917,800 04/15/13 30,000 446,700 04/15/13 20,000 297,800 04/15/13 250,000 3,722,500 Total 580,000 130,000 270,000 4,020,300 60,000 893,400 Bracken P. Darrell 04/16/12 125,000 375,000 8.03 04/16/22 3,430,000 04/16/12 400,000 14.05 04/16/22 336,000 04/16/12 400,000 16.06 04/16/22 04/16/12 400,000 20.08 04/16/22 04/16/12 75,000 1,116,750 04/15/13 270,000 4,020,300 04/15/13 177,000 2,635,530 Total 525,000 1,175,000 252,000 3,752,280 270,000 4,020,300 Vincent Pilette 09/15/13 175,000 2,605,750 09/15/13 195,000 2,903,550 Total 370,000 5,509,300 Marcel Stolk 01/04/13 225,000 7.83 01/04/23 1,588,500 01/04/13 22,000 327,580 04/15/13 60,000 893,400 04/15/13 90,000 1,340,100 Total 225,000 82,000 1,220,980 90,000 1,340,100 L. Joseph Sullivan 11/02/05 25,000 20.25 10/24/15 03/23/06 25,000 19.96 03/23/16 10/02/06 22,500 21.61 10/02/16 10/02/07 50,000 30.09 10/02/17 10/01/08 50,000 22.59 10/01/18 12/12/08 25,000 13.48 12/12/18 35,250 06/29/09 48,750 14.02 06/29/19 42,413 01/04/13 225,000 7.83 01/04/23 1,588,500 11/15/10 4,500 67,005 04/11/11 8,000 119,120 04/11/11 25,000 372,250 01/04/13 22,000 327,580 04/15/13 40,000 595,600 04/15/13 60,000 893,400 Total 246,250 225,000 74,500 1,109,305 85,000 1,265,650 Former Officers: Erik K. Bardman Total n/a n/a Michael Doktorczyk 08/15/11 8,750 130,288 01/31/12 2,800 41,692 01/31/12 2,400 35,736 11/15/12 6,720 100,061 11/15/12 3,840 57,178 02/24/14 4,500 67,005 02/24/14 4,450 66,261 Total n/a n/a 22,770 339,046 10,690 159,175 (1) PSUs are shown at their target amount. The minimum performance condition of the PSUs granted on June 29, 2009, in fiscal year 2010, was not met and therefore no shares vested at the conclusion of the 2-year performance period on June 29, 2011. The actual conversion, if any, of the PSUs granted in fiscal year 2011 into Logitech shares following the conclusion of the 3-year performance period will range between 50% and 200% of that target amount, depending upon Logitech's TSR performance versus the TSR benchmark over the performance period. The actual conversion, if any, of the PSUs granted in each of fiscal years 2012 and 2014 into Logitech shares following the conclusion of the 3-year performance period will range between 50% and 150% of that target amount, depending upon Logitech's TSR performance versus the TSR benchmark over the performance period. 127 Table of Contents (2) The exercise price of the option as granted (as split-adjusted) is 15.21 Swiss Francs per share and 17.20 US Dollar per share. CHF amount was converted using the exchange rate of 1 Swiss Franc to 1.13 U.S. Dollar as of March 31, 2014. (3) The exercise price of the option as granted (as split-adjusted) is 18.55 Swiss Francs per share and 20.97 US Dollar per share. CHF amount was converted using the exchange rate of 1 Swiss Franc to 1.13 U.S. Dollar as of March 31, 2014. OPTION EXERCISES AND STOCK VESTED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2014 The following table provides the number of shares acquired and the value realized upon exercise of stock options and the vesting of RSUs during fiscal year 2014 by each of our named executive officers. No shares resulted from PSUs whose performance period ended during fiscal year 2014 because the minimum performance condition was not met. Option Exercises and Stock Vested for Fiscal Year 2014 Guerrino De Luca Bracken P. Darrell 25,000 177,250 Vincent Pilette 295,000 4,730,325 Marcel Stolk 17,000 193,110 L. Joseph Sullivan 21,750 241,610 Former Officers: Erik K. Bardman 5,750 40,825 Michael Doktorczyk 8,015 70,583 (1) The value realized equals the difference between the option exercise price and the fair market value of Logitech shares on the date of exercise, multiplied by the number of shares for which the option was exercised. (2) Based on the closing trading price of Logitech shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. PENSION BENEFITS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2014 Marcel Stolk, Senior Vice President, Consumer Computing Platforms Business Group, is a participant in Logitech's Swiss Pension plan, which is a benefit offered to all eligible Swiss employees. No other executive officers are beneficiaries under any pension plan benefits maintained by Logitech. Guerrino De Luca n/a Bracken P. Darrell n/a Vincent Pilette n/a Marcel Stolk Logitech Employee Pension Fund 3.00 535,738 L. Joseph Sullivan n/a Former Officers: Erik K. Bardman n/a Michael Doktorczyk n/a 128 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information regarding the participation by our named executive officers in the Logitech Inc. U.S. Deferred Compensation Plan during fiscal year 2014 and at fiscal year-end. Guerrino De Luca Bracken P. Darrell Vincent Pilette Marcel Stolk L. Joseph Sullivan 70,647 497,103 Former Officers: Erik K. Bardman Michael Doktorczyk (1) Amounts are included in the Summary Compensation table in the "Salary" column for fiscal year 2014. All contributions were made under the Logitech Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan. (2) These amounts are not included in the Summary Compensation table because plan earnings were not preferential or above market. NARRATIVE DISCLOSURE TO NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION TABLE Please refer to "Compensation Disclosure and AnalysisOther Compensation ElementsDeferred compensation plan" for a discussion of the Logitech Inc. U.S. Deferred Compensation Plan effective January 1, 2009. PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION OR CHANGE IN CONTROL We have entered into agreements that provide for payments under certain circumstances in the event of termination of employment of our executive officers. These agreements include: Change of control severance agreements, under which an executive officer may receive certain benefits if he or she is subject to an involuntary termination within 12 months after a "change of control" because his or her employment is terminated without cause or because the executive resigns for good reason. PSU, RSU, and PSO award agreements that provide for the accelerated vesting of the shares subject to the award agreements under certain circumstances, including the same circumstances as under the change of control agreements. Offer letters with Bracken Darrell and Vincent Pilette, under which they are entitled to severance benefits if we terminate their employment without cause or if they resign for good reason. An employment agreement with Marcel Stolk, under which he is entitled to receive a three-month notice period if we terminate his employment or if he resigns. These agreements are described in more detail in the subsections below. Other than the agreements above, there are no agreements or arrangements for the payment of severance to a named executive officer in the event of his involuntary termination with or without cause. In fiscal year 2014, Mr. De Luca was awarded an RSU grant of 250,000 shares in recognition of his service as Logitech's acting Chief Executive Officer from July 2011 through January 2013. Given that the award was based on past service, if Mr. De Luca's service with the Company terminates by reason of death 129 Table of Contents or disability or if Mr. De Luca ceases to be Chairman of the Board at the request or upon action of the Board or by action of the Company's shareholders or is not re-elected to the Board, all then unvested RSUs under the award will vest immediately. There are no agreements providing for payment of any consideration to any non-executive member of the Board of Directors upon termination of his or her services with the Company. Change of Control Severance Agreements Each of our executive officers has executed a change of control severance agreement with Logitech. The change of control agreements with Mr. De Luca and Mr. Pilette are slightly different than those of the other executive officers. The purpose of the change of control agreements is to support retention in the event of a prospective change of control. Under the change of control agreement, each executive officer is eligible to receive the following benefits, should the executive officer be subject to an involuntary termination within 12 months after a "change of control" because his or her employment is terminated without cause or the executive resigns for good reason: The continuation of the executive's "current compensation" for 12 months (except in the case of Mr. Pilette, which is 18 months if he is terminated or resigns for good reason in the first two years of his employment); Continuation of health insurance benefits for up to 12 months; Acceleration of vesting for all stock options held by the executive; Acceleration of other employee equity incentives held by the executive if provided for under the terms of the grant agreement for the equity incentive; and Executivelevel outplacement services of a value of up to $5,000. The term "current compensation" includes: The greater of (i) the executive's annual base salary in effect immediately prior to the executive's termination and (ii) the executive's annual base salary in effect on the date of the Change of Control Agreement; plus The amount of the executive's annual bonuses for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which severance benefits become payable to the executive. The change of control agreement defines the term "change of control" to mean: A merger or consolidation of Logitech with another corporation resulting in a greater than 50% change in the total voting power of Logitech or the surviving company immediately following the transaction; The complete liquidation of Logitech; The sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of Logitech's assets; or The acquisition by any person of securities of Logitech representing 50% or more of the total voting power of Logitech's outstanding shares. The change of control agreement with Mr. De Luca is the same as for the other executive officers, except that only those stock options granted by the Company to him before January 28, 2008, while he was serving as Chief Executive Officer, are subject to acceleration under the agreement. Options granted to him after January 28, 2008 are not subject to acceleration. 130 Table of Contents The change of control agreement with Mr. Pilette is the same as for the other executive officers, except that (i) the continuation of the executive's "current compensation" is for 18 months if Mr. Pilette's employment is terminated following a change of control during the first two years of his employment, and (ii) current compensation is based on base salary and annual target bonus. PSO Award Agreements The PSO award agreements from named executive officers provide for the acceleration of the time-based vesting of the PSOs subject to the award agreements if the named executive officer resigns for good reason with 12 months after a change of control. In addition, the PSO award agreements for named executive officers, including Mr. De Luca, provide for the acceleration of the time-based vesting of the PSOs if the named executive officer is terminated for any reason other than cause or resigns for good reason within 12 months after a change of control. In any case, the PSO award agreements will not vest except to the extent that the performance-based vesting conditions have been attained. PSU and RSU Award Agreements The PSU and RSU award agreements for named executive officers other than Mr. De Luca provide for the acceleration of vesting of the RSUs and PSUs subject to the award agreements under the same circumstances and conditions as under the change of control agreements; namely, if the named executive officer is subject to an involuntary termination within 12 months after a change of control because his or her employment is terminated without cause or the executive resigns for good reason. In the event of such an involuntary termination: All shares subject to the RSUs will vest. 100% of the shares subject to the PSUs will vest if the change of control occurred within one year after the grant date of the PSUs. If the change of control occurred more than one year after the grant date of the PSUs, the number of shares subject to the PSU that will vest will be determined by applying the performance criteria under the PSUs as if the performance period had ended on the date of the change of control. Bracken Darrell Offer Letter We entered into an offer letter with Bracken Darrell dated March 13, 2012. Under his offer letter, in the event he is terminated without "cause" or resigns (within 30 days after Logitech fails to remedy the condition reported to be good reason during a 30-day cure period) for good reason, other than after a change of control, he is entitled to receive severance benefits as follows: If the termination had occurred within one year after his employment start date (note that, as of April 9, 2013, the one-year anniversary of his employment start date, Mr. Darrell is no longer entitled to these benefits), he would have been entitled to: an amount equal to 200% of his then-current annual base salary, less applicable withholdings; plus an amount equal to 200% of his then-current annual targeted bonus amount, less applicable withholdings; plus 25% of his initial stock option grant for 500,000 Logitech shares and 25% of his initial restricted stock unit grant for 100,000 shares will accelerate and vest. 131 Table of Contents If the termination had occurred more than one year but within two years after his employment start date (note that, as of April 9, 2014, the two-year anniversary, Mr. Darrell is no longer entitled to these benefits), he would have been entitled to: an amount equal to 150% of his then-current annual base salary, less applicable withholdings; plus an amount equal to 150% of his then-current annual targeted bonus amount, less applicable withholdings. If the termination occurs more than two years after his employment start date, he is entitled to: an amount equal to 100% of his then-current annual base salary, less applicable withholdings; plus an amount equal to 100% of his then-current annual targeted bonus amount, less applicable withholdings. In each case, Mr. Darrell would also be entitled to have Logitech pay the premiums to continue his group health insurance coverage under COBRA during the applicable severance period, subject to any maximum length of coverage limits under applicable law or until he becomes eligible for benefits from a subsequent employer. "Cause" in Mr. Darrell's offer letter is defined as: (i) theft, dishonesty, misconduct or falsification of any employment or Logitech records; (ii) improper disclosure of Logitech's confidential or proprietary information; (iii) failure or inability to perform any assigned duties after written notice from Logitech of, and a reasonable opportunity to cure, such failure or inability; (iv) conviction (including any plea of guilty or no contest) of a felony, or of any other criminal act if that act impairs his ability to perform his duties; or (v) failure to cooperate in good faith with a governmental or internal investigation of Logitech or its directors, officers or employees, if Logitech has requested his cooperation. "Good reason" in Mr. Darrell's offer letter is defined as: (i) a material reduction of his authority, duties or responsibilities, or (ii) if, by January 31, 2013, he is not reporting directly to the Logitech International Board of Directors as Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Darrell became Chief Executive Officer, reporting directly to the Board, on January 1, 2013. If any amounts become payable to Mr. Darrell under his change of control agreement, or any successor agreement, the aggregate amount of any amounts payable to Mr. Darrell under his offer letter will be reduced to the extent necessary so as to prevent the duplication of severance payments to him. If amounts payable to Mr. Darrell under any arrangement or agreement with Logitech are payable as a result of a change of ownership or control of Logitech and exceed the amount allowed under section 280G of the Code, and would be subject to the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the Code, then, prior to the making of any Payments to Mr. Darrell, a "best-of" calculation will be made comparing (1) the total benefit to Mr. Darrell from the Payments after payment of the excise tax, to (2) the total benefit to Mr. Darrell if the Payments are reduced to the extent necessary to avoid being subject to the excise tax, and Mr. Darrell will be entitled to the Payments under the more favorable outcome. Vincent Pilette Offer Letter We entered into an offer letter with Vincent Pilette dated August 26, 2013. Under his offer letter, in the event he is terminated within the first two years after his employment start date without "cause" or resigns for good reason, other than after a change of control, he is entitled to receive severance benefits as follows: An amount equal to 100% of his then-current annual base salary, less applicable withholdings; plus 132 Table of Contents An amount equal to 100% of his then-current annual targeted bonus amount, less applicable withholdings; plus One-third of his initial RSU grant for 175,000 units will accelerate and vest (as of September 15, 2014, 116,666 shares from this grant remain unvested); plus If the separation of service had occurred within the first year of service (note that, as of September 3, 2014, the one-year anniversary, Mr. Pilette is no longer entitled to these benefits), 100% of his initial RSU grant for 195,000 units would have accelerated and vested (as of September 15, 2014, this grant was completely vested); plus Executive-level outplacement services, in the amount of up to $15,000. In each case, Mr. Pilette would also be entitled to have Logitech pay the premiums to continue his group health insurance coverage under COBRA for a period up to 12 months or until he becomes eligible for benefits from a subsequent employer. "Cause" in Mr. Pilette's offer letter is defined as: (i) willful dishonesty or fraud with respect to the business affairs of Logitech; (ii) intentional falsification of any employment or Logitech records, (iii) conviction (including any plea of guilty or no contest) of a felony which the Board of Directors of Logitech International reasonably believes materially impairs his ability to perform his duties for Logitech or adversely affects Logitech's reputation or standing in the community, (iv) a willful act by him which constitutes misconduct (including, but not limited to, improper use or disclosure of the confidential or proprietary information of Logitech) and is injurious to Logitech, or (v) continued willful violations by him of his obligations to Logitech after there has been delivered to him a written demand for performance from Logitech which describes the basis for Logitech's belief that he have not substantially performed his duties. "Good reason" in Mr. Pilette's offer letter is defined as: (i) a substantial reduction of the facilities and perquisites (including office space and location) available to him immediately prior to such reduction, without his expressed written consent and without good business reasons, (ii) a material reduction of his base salary, (iii) a material reduction in the kind or level of employee benefits to which he is entitled immediately prior to such reduction, with the result that his overall benefits package is significantly reduced, (iv) his relocation to a facility or location more than thirty (30) miles from his current location, without his expressed written consent, (v) the failure of Logitech and Logitech International to obtain the assumption of his letter agreement by any successor, or (vi) a material reduction of his duties, position or responsibilities relative to his duties, position or responsibilities in effect immediately prior to such reduction, without his expressed written consent ("demotion"). If any amounts become payable to Mr. Pilette under his change of control agreement, or any successor agreement, the aggregate amount of any amounts payable to Mr. Pilette under his offer letter will be reduced to the extent necessary so as to prevent the duplication of severance payments to him. If amounts payable to Mr. Pilette under any arrangement or agreement with Logitech are payable as a result of a change of ownership or control of Logitech and exceed the amount allowed under section 280G of the Code, and would be subject to the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the Code, then the Payments are reduced to the extent necessary to avoid being subject to the excise tax. Tables of Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control The table below estimates the amount of compensation that would be paid in the event of an involuntary termination of a listed executive officer without cause after a change in control, assuming that each of the terminations was effective as of March 31, 2014, subject to the terms of the change of control agreement and the terms of the PSO, PSU and RSU award agreements with each of the listed executive officers. 133 Table of Contents For Mr. Darrell and Mr. Pilette, the additional table below estimates the amount of compensation that would have been paid in the event of an involuntary termination without cause, assuming that the termination was effective as of March 31, 2014, subject to the terms of the agreements with them. As of March 31, 2014, no compensation amounts were payable to any named executive officer in the event of a mutual agreement to terminate employment, whether upon retirement or otherwise. The price used for determining the value of accelerated equity in the tables below was the closing price of Logitech's shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on March 31, 2014, the last business day of the fiscal year, of $14.89. For those unvested options held by Mr. De Luca that have exercise prices denominated in Swiss Francs, the U.S. Dollar equivalent of such exercise prices as of March 31, 2014 were calculated based on a Swiss Franc to U.S. Dollar exchange rate on March 31, 2014 of 1 to 1.13. Potential Payments Upon Involuntary Termination After Change in Control Guerrino De Luca 500,000 575,000 13,465 4,467,000 5,555,465 Bracken P. Darrell(6) 750,000 862,500 30,419 10,345,080 11,987,999 Vincent Pilette 750,000 600,000 23,465 5,509,300 (610,682 ) 6,072,083 Marcel Stolk 580,363 583,753 8,657 3,355,330 n/a 4,528,103 L. Joseph Sullivan 415,000 385,950 22,713 2,796,955 (1,156,511 ) 2,464,107 (1) Represents fiscal year 2014 annual base salary in effect on March 31, 2014. Mr. Pilette's agreement calls for 18 months of compensation continuation if his employment is terminated following a change of control during the first two years of his employment. Thereafter, Mr. Pilette is eligible for 12 months of compensation continuation. Mr. Stolk's salary amount was converted using the exchange rate of 1 CHF to 1.13 USD as of March 31, 2014. (2) Bonuses paid for fiscal year 2014 except for Mr. Pilette. Mr. Pilette's agreement provides for bonus based on annual target bonus. Mr. Stolk's bonus amount was converted using the exchange rate of 1 CHF to 1.13 USD as of March 31, 2014. (3) Represents the estimated cost of medical and other health insurance premiums (COBRA) for one year after termination and $5,000 in outplacement services ($15,000 for Mr. Pilette). (4) Represents, as of March 31, 2014, the aggregate intrinsic value (market value less exercise price) of unvested options and the aggregate market value of shares underlying all unvested RSUs PSUs, in each case held by the named executive officer as of March 31, 2014. For minimum performance conditions under the terms of the PSOs granted January 4, 2013, 50% of the condiitons were met therefore, 50% of value were attributed to the shares subject to such PSOs. For the PSUs granted April 15, 2013, as of March 31, 2014 the performance condition were at a level which would have produced a payout percentage of 150% therefore, 150% of value were attributed to the shares subject to such PSUs. The minimum performance conditions for two of the PSOs granted to Mr. Darrell on April 16, 2012 were not met as of March 31, 2014 therefore no value were attributed to the shares subject to such PSOs. Mr. De Luca does not receive any acceleration of RSU or PSU vesting. (5) Under the Change of Control agreements for the executive officers listed above other than Mr. Darrell, there is a "280G cut-back" so that, in effect, the maximum value of the cash payments plus accelerated equity awards to which an executive is entitled under the agreement is just under 3 times the average annual taxable compensation paid by Logitech to the executive in the prior five taxable years, calculated in accordance with the U.S. Tax Code. 134 Table of Contents (6) For Mr. Darrell, if amounts payable under any arrangement or agreement with Logitech are payable as a result of a change of ownership or control of Logitech and exceed the amount allowed under section 280G of the Code, and would be subject to the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the Code, then, prior to the making of any Payments to Mr. Darrell, a "best-of" calculation will be made comparing (1) the total benefit to Mr. Darrell from the Payments after payment of the excise tax, to (2) the total benefit to Mr. Darrell if the Payments are reduced to the extent necessary to avoid being subject to the excise tax, and Mr. Darrell will be entitled to the Payments under the more favorable outcome. Potential Payments Upon Involuntary Termination Bracken Darrell (if terminating between April 2013April 2014) $ 1,125,000 (1) $ 1,125,000 (2) n/a $ 2,250,000 Bracken Darrell (if terminating between April 2014April 2015) $ 750,000 (3) $ 750,000 (4) n/a $ 1,500,000 Vincent Pilettte (if terminating between September 2013September 2014) $ 500,000 (5) $ 400,000 (6) $ 3,772,128 (7) $ 4,672,128 Vincent Pilettte (if terminating between September 2014September 2015) $ 500,000 (8) $ 400,000 (9) $ 868,578 (10) $ 1,768,578 (1) Represents 150% of Mr. Darrell's fiscal year 2014 annual base salary in effect on March 31, 2014. (2) Represents 150% of Mr. Darrell's fiscal year 2014 target bonus in effect on March 31, 2014. (3) Represents 100% of Mr. Darrell's fiscal year 2014 annual base salary in effect on March 31, 2014. (4) Represents 100% of Mr. Darrell's fiscal year 2014 target bonus in effect on March 31, 2014. (5) Represents 100% of Mr. Pilette's fiscal year 2014 annual base salary in effect on March 31, 2014. (6) Represents 100% of Mr. Pilette's fiscal year 2014 annual base salary in effect on March 31, 2014. (7) Represents value of 33% vesting of Mr. Pilette's initial restricted stock unit grant for 175,000 shares (as of September 15, 2014 this grant was completely vested) and 100% of Mr. Pilette's restricted stock unit grant for 195,000 shares (as of September 15, 2014, 116,666 shares from this grant remain unvested) using Logitech's stock price in effect on March 31, 2014. (8) Represents 100% of Mr. Pilette's fiscal year 2014 annual base salary in effect on March 31, 2014. (9) Represents 100% of Mr. Pilette's fiscal year 2014 annual base salary in effect on March 31, 2014. (10) Represents value of 33% vesting of Mr. Pilette's initial restricted stock unit grant for 175,000 shares (as of September 15, 2014 this grant was completely vested) using Logitech's stock price in effect on March 31, 2014. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS For fiscal year 2014, the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors that are not Logitech employees, or non-employee directors, was established by the Committee for Board Compensation, which at the time consisted of Guerrino De Luca, our Chairman. For fiscal year 2015, the Committee for Board Compensation has been terminated, and the compensation of non-employee directors will be determined by the Compensation Committee, consisting entirely of independent directors, and recommended to the full Board for approval. 135 Table of Contents The general policy is that compensation for non-employee directors should be a mix of cash and equity-based compensation. For fiscal year 2014, to assist the committee in its annual review of director compensation, Logitech's compensation department provided director pay practices and compensation data compiled from the annual reports and proxy statements of companies within the NASDAQ 100 and technology companies generally considered comparable to Logitech. For fiscal year 2014, cash compensation of non-employee directors consists solely of annual retainers based on Board and committee service and payment for travel days in connection with Board meetings. Non-employee directors also receive an annual RSU grant based on a fixed market value. These grants vest on the one-year anniversary of Board service. For fiscal year 2014, the annual RSU grant value was adjusted from CHF 120,000 ($135,692) to CHF 135,000 ($152,654) to reflect increases in the market for board compensation. Directors who are Logitech employees do not receive any compensation for their service on the Board of Directors. Non-employee director compensation currently consists of the following elements: Annual cash retainer 60,000 67,846 An additional annual cash retainer for the lead independent director. 20,000 22,615 Annual retainer for the Audit Committee chair. 40,000 45,231 Annual retainer for the Compensation Committee chair. 30,000 33,923 Annual retainer for non-chair Audit Committee members. 15,000 16,962 Annual retainer for non-chair Compensation Committee members. 10,000 11,308 Annual retainer for Nominating Committee members. 3,000 3,392 Annual RSU grant. 135,000 152,654 Compensation for the number of travel days spent traveling to attend Board and committee meetings, per day rate. 2,500 2,827 Reimbursement of reasonable expenses for non-local travel (business class). (1) CHF amount was converted using the exchange rate of 1 Swiss Franc to 1.13 U.S. Dollar as of March 31, 2014. Except for fees earned between Logitech's 2013 Annual General Meeting and 2014 Annual General Meeting, non-employee Board members may elect to receive their Board fees in shares, net of withholdings. Any such shares are to be issued under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. The following table summarizes the total compensation earned or paid by Logitech during fiscal year 2014 to continuing members of the Board of Directors who were not executive officers as of March 31, 2014. Because the table is based on Logitech's fiscal year, and annual service for purposes of Board compensation is measured between the dates of Logitech's Annual General Meeting, usually held in September each year, the amounts in the table do not necessarily align with the description of Board compensation above. Information regarding compensation paid to and the option and stock awards held by Guerrino De Luca and Bracken Darrell, the members of the Board of Directors that are Logitech executive officers as of fiscal year-end 2014, are presented in the Summary Compensation Table and the Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table, respectively. 136 Table of Contents Non-Employee Director Summary Compensation for Fiscal Year 2014 Daniel Borel 73,535 149,224 222,759 Matthew Bousquette 154,611 147,016 301,627 Erh-Hsun Chang (3) 41,010 41,010 Kee-Lock Chua 117,938 147,016 264,954 Sally Davis 117,467 149,224 266,691 Didier Hirsch 118,315 147,016 265,331 Neil Hunt 96,161 147,016 243,177 Monika Ribar 108,888 149,224 258,112 (1) CHF amount was converted using the exchange rate of 1 Swiss Franc to 1.13 U.S. Dollar as of March 31, 2014. (2) Amounts shown do not reflect compensation actually received by the director. Instead, the amount shown is the aggregate grant date fair value of stock-related awards in fiscal year 2014 computed in accordance with ASC Topic 718CompensationStock Compensation, disregarding forfeiture assumptions. The market value used to calculate the aggregate value on March 31, 2014 was $14.89. (3) Mr. Chang did not stand for re-election as a director at the Annual General Meeting in September 2013. The following table presents additional information with respect to the equity awards held as of March 31, 2014 by members of the Board of Directors who were not executive officers as of fiscal year-end. In 2010, Logitech began granting RSUs instead of stock options to continuing non-employee directors. The RSUs granted since fiscal year 2010 fully vest on approximately the one-year anniversary date of the grant. Market value for stock options is calculated by taking the difference between the closing price of Logitech shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the last trading day of the fiscal year ($14.89 on March 31, 2014) and the option exercise price, and multiplying it by the number of outstanding options. Market value for RSUs is determined by multiplying the number of shares by the closing price of Logitech shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the last trading day of the fiscal year. Certain of the options as granted have exercise prices denominated in Swiss Francs. The U.S. Dollar exercise price in the table below for such options is based on a Swiss Franc to U.S. Dollar exchange rate on March 31, 2014 of 1 to 1.13. 137 Table of Contents Outstanding Equity Awards for Non-Employee Directors at Fiscal 2014 Year-End Daniel Borel 09/05/13 18,400 273,976 Total 18,400 273,976 Matthew Bousquette 06/16/05 60,000 15.41 09/10/08 15,000 23.29 09/05/13 18,400 273,976 Total 75,000 18,400 273,976 Kee-Lock Chua 06/16/06 15,000 19.43 09/05/13 18,400 273,976 Total 15,000 18,400 273,976 Sally Davis 06/20/07 30,000 38.92 (3) 09/05/13 18,400 273,976 Total 30,000 18,400 273,976 Didier Hirsch 09/05/12 18,132 (5) 269,985 09/06/13 18,400 273,976 Total 36,532 543,961 Neil Hunt 09/05/13 18,400 273,976 Total 18,400 273,976 Monika Ribar 06/24/04 80,000 16.58 (4) 06/20/07 15,000 38.92 (3) 09/05/13 18,400 273,976 Total 95,000 18,400 273,976 (1) Unless otherwise indicated, the shares subject to these options vest and become exercisable at a rate of 33% per year over three years from the grant date, on each yearly anniversary of the grant date. (2) Unless otherwise indicated, the shares subject to these stock awards vest in full on August 31 (approximately one year) following the grant date. (3) The exercise price of the option as granted is 34.45 Swiss Francs per share. (4) The exercise price of the option as granted (as split-adjusted) is 14.68 Swiss Francs per share. (5) Represents a stock award of 27,200 shares, granted to Mr. Hirsch as a new director in 2012, which vests at a rate of 33% per year over 3 years from the grant date, on each yearly anniversary of the grant date. EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION The following table summarizes the shares that may be issued upon the exercise of options, (including PSOs and PPOs), RSUs, PSUs, and other rights under our employee equity compensation plans as of March 31, 2014. These plans include the 1996 Employee Share Purchase Plan (U.S.) and 2006 Employee Share Purchase Plan (Non-U.S.) (together, the "ESPPs"), 2006 Stock Incentive Plan and 2012 Stock 138 Table of Contents Inducement Equity Plan. The table also includes shares that may be issued upon the exercise of outstanding options under the 1996 Stock Plan (this plan terminated in 2006). Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders 14,130,206 (2) $ 17 17,403,075 Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders 1,775,000 (3) 14 Total 15,905,206 $ 17 17,403,075 (1) The weighted average exercise price is calculated based solely on outstanding options. (2) Includes options and rights to acquire shares outstanding under our 1996 Employee Share Purchase Plan (U.S.), 2006 Employee Share Purchase Plan (Non-U.S.), 2006 Stock Incentive Plan and 1996 Stock Plan (which plan terminated in 2006). (3) Includes options and rights to acquire shares outstanding under our 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan adopted under the Nasdaq rules. 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan Under the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan, stock options and RSUs may be granted to eligible employees to serve as inducement material to enter into employment with the Company. Awards under the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan may be conditioned on continued employment, the passage of time or the satisfaction of performance vesting criteria, based on individual written employment offer letters. The 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan has an expiration date of March 31, 2022. As of March 31, 2014, an aggregate of 1,800,000 shares was reserved for issuance under the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan. As of March 31, 2014, no shares were available for issuance under this plan. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan The Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant to eligible employees and non-employee members of the Board of Directors of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, and restricted stock units. As of March 31, 2014, Logitech has granted stock options (including PSOs), RSUs, and PSUs under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan and has made no grants of restricted shares or stock appreciation rights. Stock options granted under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan generally will have terms not exceeding ten years and will be issued at exercise prices not less than the fair market value on the date of grant. Awards under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan may be conditioned on continued employment, the passage of time, or the satisfaction of performance vesting criteria. As of March 31, 2014, an aggregate of 24.8 million shares is reserved for issuance under the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. As of March 31, 2014, a total of 9,136,375 shares were available for issuance under this plan. 1996 Stock Plan Under the 1996 Stock Plan, Logitech granted options for shares. Options issued under the 1996 Stock Plan generally vest over four years and remain outstanding for periods not to exceed ten years. Options were granted at exercise prices of at least 100% of the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant. Logitech made no grants of restricted shares, stock appreciation rights, or stock units under the 1996 Stock Plan. No further awards will be granted under the 1996 Stock Plan. 139 Table of Contents Each option issued under the 1996 Stock Plan entitles the holder to purchase one share of Logitech International S.A. at the exercise price. Employee Share Purchase Plans Logitech maintains two employee share purchase plans, one for employees in the United States and one for employees outside the United States. The plan for employees outside the United States is named the 2006 Employee Share Purchase Plan (Non-U.S.), or 2006 ESPP, and was approved by the Board of Directors in June 2006. The plan for employees in the United States is named the 1996 Employee Share Purchase Plan (U.S.), or 1996 ESPP. The 1996 ESPP was the worldwide plan until the adoption of the 2006 ESPP in June 2006. Under both plans, eligible employees may purchase shares with up to 10% of their earnings at the lower of 85% of the fair market value at the beginning or the end of each six-month offering period. Purchases under the plans are limited to a fair value of $25,000 in any one year, calculated in accordance with U.S. tax laws. During each offering period, payroll deductions of employee participants are accumulated under the share purchase plan. Subject to continued participation in these plans, purchase agreements are automatically executed at the end of each offering period. A total of 29 million shares have been reserved for issuance under both the 1996 and 2006 ESPPs. As of March 31, 2014, a total of 8,266,700 shares were available for issuance under these plans. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2014 In accordance with the proxy statement rules under U.S. securities laws, the following table shows the number of our shares beneficially owned as of September 30, 2014 by: each person or group known by Logitech, based on filings pursuant to Section 13(d) or (g) under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or notifications to the Company under applicable Swiss laws, to own beneficially more than 5% of our outstanding shares as of September 30, 2014; each director and each nominee for director; the persons named in the Summary Compensation Table in the Compensation Report (the "named executive officers"); and all directors and current executive officers as a group. 140 Table of Contents 5% Shareholders: Daniel Borel(5) 9,601,343 18,400 9,619,743 5.9 % Directors, not including the Chairman or the CEO: Daniel Borel(5) 9,601,343 18,400 9,619,743 5.9 % Matthew Bousquette 38,453 93,400 131,853 * Erh-Hsun Chang(6) 18,579 18,579 * Kee-Lock Chua 69,972 33,400 103,372 * Sally Davis 67,103 48,400 115,503 * Neil Hunt 29,433 18,400 47,833 * Monika Ribar 43,245 33,400 76,645 * Didier Hirsch 6,228 27,468 33,696 * Named Executive Officers Guerrino De Luca 167,679 505,000 672,679 * Bracken P. Darrell 114,513 650,000 764,513 * Vincent Pilette 165,806 253,333 419,139 * Marcel Stolk 30,727 30,727 * L. Joseph Sullivan 52,515 250,750 303,265 * Erik K. Bardman(7) * Michael Doktorczyk(8) 19,173 4,375 23,548 * Current Directors and Executive Officers, as a Group(13) 10,405,596 1,931,951 12,337,547 7.6 % * Less than 1% (1) Unless otherwise indicated, the address for each beneficial owner listed in this table is c/o Logitech International S.A., Rue du Sablon 2-4 Morges, Switzerland / 7600 Gateway Boulevard, Newark, California 94560. (2) To Logitech's knowledge, except as otherwise noted in the footnotes to this table, each director and executive officer has sole voting and investment power over the shares reported as beneficially owned in accordance with SEC rules, subject to community property laws where applicable. (3) Includes shares represented by vested, unexercised options as of September 30, 2014 and options and restricted stock units that are expected to vest within 60 days after September 30, 2014. These shares are deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the percentage ownership of the person holding the options or restricted stock units, but are not treated as outstanding for the purpose of computing the percentage ownership of any other person. For Ms. Davis, Ms. Ribar and Messrs. Borel, Bousquette, Chua and Hunt, 18,400 of the shares that they may acquire within 60 days vested on August 31, 2014 but will not settle until the Company is current on its periodic reports required to be filed with the SEC, at which time such shares will also be subject to a net issuance to cover withholding taxes. For Mr. Hirsch, 27,468 of the shares that he may acquire within 60 days vested on August 31, 2014 but will not settle until the Company is current on its periodic reports required to be filed with the SEC, at which time such shares will also be subject to a net issuance to cover withholding taxes. For Mr. Pilette, 253,333 of the shares that he may acquire within 60 days vested on September 15, 2014 but will not settle until the Company is current on its periodic reports required to be filed with the SEC, at which time such shares will also be subject to a net issuance to cover withholding taxes. For Mr. Sullivan, 4,500 of the shares that he may acquire within 60 days will vest on November 15, 2014, at which time such shares will also be subject to a net issuance to cover 141 Table of Contents withholding taxes. For Mr. Doktorczyk, 4,375 of the shares that he may acquire within 60 days vested on August 15, 2014 but will not settle until the Company is current on its periodic reports required to be filed with the SEC, at which time such shares will also be subject to a net issuance to cover withholding taxes. (4) Based on 163,259,279 shares outstanding on September 30, 2014 (173,106,620 shares outstanding less 9,847,341 treasury shares outstanding). (5) The number of shares held by Mr. Borel includes (a) 53,000 shares held by a charitable foundation, of which Mr. Borel and other members of his family are board members and (b) 6,500 shares held by Mr. Borel's spouse. As of September 30, 2014, Mr. Borel's indicated sole investment and voting power with respect to 9,541,843 shares, shared investment power with respect to 59,500 shares and shared voting power with respect to 53,000 shares. (6) Mr. Chang did not stand for re-election as a director at the Annual General Meeting in September 2013. (7) Mr. Bardman resigned as an executive officer of the Company effective as of April 26, 2013. (8) Mr. Doktorczyk served as interim Principle Financial Officer and Principle Accounting officer from May 29, 2013 until September 3, 2013, Mr. Doktorczyk was the Company's Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller throughout the fiscal year 2014, but he was not an executive officer. Share Ownership Guidelines Members of the Board of Directors and executive officers and other officers who report directly to the Chief Executive Officer or President are subject to share ownership guidelines. Directors are required to own Logitech shares with a market value equal to 3 times the annual Board retainer under guidelines adopted by the Board in June 2006 and revised in June 2013. Directors are required to achieve this ownership within five years of joining the Board, or, in the case of directors serving at the time the guidelines were originally adopted, within five years of the effective date of adoption of the guidelines. The guidelines will be adjusted to reflect any capital adjustments, and will be re-evaluated by the Board from time to time. As of July 31, 2014, each director had either satisfied these ownership guidelines or had time remaining to do so. The Compensation Committee adopted share ownership guidelines for executive officers and other officers who report directly to the Chief Executive Officer or President effective September 2008 and revised in September 2013. These guidelines now apply to executive officers and other officers who report directly to the Chief Executive Officer. These guidelines require: the Chief Executive Officer to hold a number of Logitech shares with a market value equal to 5 times his annual base salary; the Chief Financial Officer to hold a number of Logitech shares with a market value equal to 3 time his annual base salary; executive officers, other than the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to hold a number of Logitech shares with a market value equal to 2 times their respective annual base salaries; and remaining officers who report directly to the Chief Executive Officer to hold a number of Logitech shares with a market value equal to their respective annual base salaries. Officers subject to the guidelines are required to achieve the guideline within five years of being appointed to the position making them subject to the guideline, or, in the case of such officers serving at the time the guidelines were originally adopted, within five years of the effective date of adoption of the guidelines. The guidelines will be adjusted to reflect any capital adjustments, and will be re-evaluated by the Compensation 142 Table of Contents Committee from time to time. Up to 50% of the guideline may be met through the net value of vested, unexercised stock options. If the guideline is not met within five years, the Chief Executive Officer must hold 100% of his after-tax shares resulting from option exercises or other equity incentive awards until the guideline is reached, and all other executive officers and Chief Executive Officer direct reports must hold at least 50% of the net shares resulting from option exercises or other equity incentive awards until the guideline is reached. In addition, if the guideline is not met, the officer will have 50% of the after-tax value of any earned bonuses under the Leadership Team Bonus Program paid in fully vested Logitech shares. This provision was enforced for two officers in connection with the fiscal year 2014 bonuses. As of September 30, 2014, twelve of the thirteen executive officers and other officers who report directly to Chief Executive Officer had either satisfied these ownership guidelines or had time remaining to do so. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Related Person Transactions Policy and Procedures Our Policies It is our policy that all employees must not engage in any activities which could conflict with Logitech's business interests, which could adversely affect its reputation or which could interfere with the fulfillment of the responsibilities of the employee's job, which at all times must be performed in the best interests of Logitech. In addition, Logitech employees may not use their position with Logitech, or Logitech's information or assets, for their personal gain or for the improper benefit of others. These policies are included in our Conflict of Interest and Business Ethics Policy, which covers our directors, executive officers and other employees. If in a particular circumstance the Board concludes that there is or may be a perceived conflict of interest, the Board will instruct our Legal department to work with our relevant business units to determine if there is a conflict of interest. Any waivers to these conflict rules with regard to a director or executive officer require the prior approval of the Audit Committee. Nasdaq Rules and Swiss Best Corporate Governance Practices Nasdaq rules defining "independent" director status also govern conflict of interest situations, as do Swiss best corporate governance principles published by economiesuisse, a leading Swiss business organization. As discussed above, the Board of Directors has determined that each of our directors and nominee to be a director, other than Mr. Borel, Mr. Darrell and Mr. De Luca, qualifies as "independent" in accordance with the Nasdaq rules. The Nasdaq rules include a series of objective tests that would not allow a director to be considered independent if the director has or has had certain employment, business or family relationships with the company. The Nasdaq independence definition also includes a requirement that the Board review the relations between each independent director and the company on a subjective basis. In accordance with that review, the Board has made a subjective determination as to each independent director that no relationships exist that, in the opinion of the Board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director. SEC Rules In addition to the Logitech and Nasdaq policies and rules described above, the SEC has specific disclosure requirements covering certain types of transactions involving Logitech and a director or executive officer or persons and entities affiliated with them. Since April 1, 2013, we have not been a party to, and we have no plans to be a party to, any transaction or series of similar transactions in which the amount involved exceeded or will exceed US $120,000 and in which any current director, director nominee, executive officer, holder of more than 5% of our shares, or any member of the immediate family of any of the foregoing, had or will have a direct or indirect material interest. We have entered into an indemnification agreement with each of our directors and executive officers. The indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Swiss and California law. 143 Table of Contents None of the following persons has been indebted to Logitech or its subsidiaries at any time since the beginning of fiscal year 2014: any of our directors or executive officers; any nominee for election as a director; any member of the immediate family of any of our directors, executive officers or nominees for director; any corporation or organization of which any of our directors, executive officers or nominees is an executive officer or partner or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of 10% or more of any class of equity securities (except trade debt entered into in the ordinary course of business); and any trust or other estate in which any of the directors, executive officers or nominees for director has a substantial beneficial interest or for which such person serves as a trustee or in a similar capacity. Board of Directors Independence The Board of Directors has determined that each of our directors and director nominees, other than Daniel Borel, Bracken Darrell and Guerrino De Luca, qualifies as independent in accordance with the published listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market and Swiss corporate governance best practices guidelines. The Company's independent directors and director nominees include Matthew Bousquette, Kee-Lock Chua, Sally Davis, Didier Hirsch, Neil Hunt, Dimitri Panayotopoulos and Monika Ribar. The Nasdaq independence definition includes a series of objective tests, such as that the director is not an employee of the company and has not engaged in various types of business dealings with the company. In addition, as further required by Nasdaq rules, the Board has made a subjective determination as to each independent director that no relationships exist which, in the opinion of the Board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director. In making these determinations, the directors reviewed and discussed information provided by the directors and the Company with regard to each director's business and personal activities as they may relate to Logitech and Logitech's management. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Audit and Non-Audit Fees In addition to the audit services PwC provides with respect to Logitech's annual audited consolidated financial statements and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, PwC has provided non-audit services to Logitech in the past and may provide them in the future. Non-audit services are services other than those provided in connection with an audit or a review of Logitech's financial statements. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors determined that the rendering of non-audit services by PwC was compatible with maintaining their independence. The following table sets forth the aggregate fees billed to us for the audit and other services provided by PwC during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Audit fees(1) $ 7,031 $ 3,143 Audit-related fees(2) 5 Tax fees(3) 342 502 All other fees(4) 19 17 Total $ 7,392 $ 3,667 (1) Audit fees. This category represent fees for professional services provided in connection with the audit of our financial statements, the audit of our internal control over financial reporting, and review of our quarterly financial statements and audit services provided in connection with other statutory or regulatory filings. Audit fees also include fees incurred for professional services rendered in connection with the Audit Committee's independent investigation into certain accounting and financial reporting matters in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. 144 Table of Contents (2) Audit-related fees. This category represents consultation on issues such as acquisition accounting, due diligence services in connection with acquisitions, review and testing of the impact of new accounting pronouncements, and other topics. (3) Tax fees. This category represents fees for tax compliance, assistance with tax audits, tax advice and tax planning. (4) All other fees. This category primarily represents fees for government grant audits and database licenses. Pre-Approval Procedures and Policies The Audit Committee pre-approves all audit and non-audit services provided by PwC. This pre-approval must occur before the auditor is engaged. The Audit Committee pre-approves categories of non-audit services and a target fee associated with each category. Usage of PwC fees against the target is presented to the Audit Committee at each in-person quarterly meeting, with additional amounts requested as needed. Services that last longer than a year must be re-approved by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee can delegate the pre-approval ability to a single independent member of the Audit Committee. The delegate must communicate all services approved at the next scheduled Audit Committee meeting. The Audit Committee or its delegate can pre-approve types of services to be performed by PwC with a set dollar limit per type of service. The Vice President, Corporate Controller is responsible for ensuring that the work performed is within the scope and dollar limit as approved by the Audit Committee. Management must report to the Audit Committee the status of each project or service provided by PwC. ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 1. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Financial Statements: Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements of OperationsYears Ended March 31, 2014, 2013 (revised) and 2012 (restated) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)Years Ended March 31, 2014, 2013 (revised) and 2012 (restated) Consolidated Balance SheetsMarch 31, 2014 and 2013 (revised) Consolidated Statements of Cash FlowsYears Ended March 31, 2014, 2013 (revised) and 2012 (restated) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' EquityYears Ended March 31, 2014, 2013 (revised) and 2012 (restated) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (restated) Supplementary Data: Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data (revised, except for the three months ended June 30, 2011(restated) and three months ended March 31, 2014) 2. Financial Statement Schedule Schedule IIValuation and Qualifying Accounts 3. Exhibits 145 Table of Contents Index to Exhibits 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 10, 2009, as amended by the First Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, entered into as of November 16, 2009, both by and among Logitech Inc., Agora Acquisition Corporation, Lifesize Communications, Inc., Shareholder Representative Services LLC, as stockholder representative, and U.S. Bank National Association, as escrow agent. 8-K 0-29174 12/14/09 2.1 3.1 Articles of Incorporation of Logitech International S.A. as amended 10-Q 0-29174 11/08/10 3.1 3.2 Organizational Regulations of Logitech International S.A. as amended 10-K 0-29174 06/01/09 3.2 10.1 ** 1996 Stock Plan, as amended S-8 333-100854 05/27/03 4.2 10.2 ** Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective September 1, 2009 8-K 0-29174 09/03/09 10.2 10.3 ** Representative form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit agreement (executives) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan for grants in 2008 to 2010 10-K 0-29174 06/01/09 10.3 10.4 ** Logitech Inc. Management Deferred Compensation Plan 10-Q 0-29174 11/04/08 10.1 10.5 ** 1996 Employee Share Purchase Plan (U.S.), as amended and restated DEFA14A 0-29174 07/23/13 App. A 146 Table of Contents 10.6 ** 2006 Employee Share Purchase Plan (Non-U.S.), as amended and restated DEFA14A 0-29174 07/23/13 App. B 10.7 ** Form of Director and Officer Indemnification Agreement with Logitech International S.A. 20-F 0-29174 05/21/03 4.1 10.8 ** Form of Director and Officer Indemnification Agreement with Logitech Inc. 20-F 0-29174 05/21/03 4.2 10.9 ** Logitech Management Performance Bonus Plan, as amended and restated DEFA14A 0-29174 07/23/13 App. C 10.10 ** Employment Agreement dated December 3, 2008 between Logitech Inc. and Gerald P. Quindlen 8-K 0-29174 12/09/08 10.1 10.11 ** Change of Control Severance Agreement dated December 3, 2008 among Logitech International S.A., Logitech Inc. and Gerald P. Quindlen 8-K 0-29174 12/09/08 10.4 10.12 ** Employment agreement dated January 28, 2008 between Logitech Inc. and Guerrino De Luca 10-K 0-29174 05/30/08 10.10 10.13 ** Change of Control Severance Agreement dated December 3, 2008 among Logitech International S.A., Logitech Inc. and Guerrino De Luca 8-K 0-29174 12/09/08 10.5 10.14 ** Form of Employment Agreement dated December 3, 2008 between Logitech Inc. and L. Joseph Sullivan 8-K 0-29174 12/09/08 10.2 147 Table of Contents 10.15 ** Form of Change of Control Severance Agreement between Logitech Inc., Logitech International S.A. and executive officers other than the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer 10-K 0-29174 05/30/08 10.12 10.16 ** Offer letter dated December 24, 2008 between Logitech Inc. and Werner Heid 10-K 0-29174 06/01/09 10.16 10.17 ** Representative form of stock option agreement (non-executive board members) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan 10-Q 0-29174 11/04/09 10.1 10.18 ** Representative form of stock option agreement (employees) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan 10-Q 0-29174 11/04/09 10.2 10.19 ** Representative form of restricted stock unit agreement (non-executive board members) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan 10-Q 0-29174 11/04/09 10.3 10.20 ** Representative form of restricted stock unit agreement (executives) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan 10-Q 0-29174 11/04/09 10.4 10.21 ** Executive officer base salary, duties and authority under form of employment agreements dated December 3, 2008 10-Q 0-29174 11/04/09 10.14.1 10.22 ** Lifesize Communications, Inc. 2003 Stock Option Plan S-8 333-163933 12/22/09 10.1 148 Table of Contents 10.23 ** Offer letter dated September 14, 2009 between Logitech Inc. and Erik K. Bardman 8-K 0-29174 09/22/09 10.1 10.24 ** Employment Agreement effective January 1, 2011 between Logitech Europe S.A. and Junien Labrousse 8-K 0-29174 03/24/11 10.1 10.25 ** Representative form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit agreement (executives) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan for grants in 2011 10-K 0-29174 05/27/11 10.28 10.26 Senior revolving credit facility agreement dated December 31, 2011 among Logitech International S.A., the lenders party thereto from time to time and Credit Suisse AGas Arranger and Agent 8-K 0-29174 01/04/12 10.1 10.27 ** Offer letter dated March 13, 2012 between Logitech Inc. and Bracken Darrell 8-K 0-29174 03/15/12 10.1 10.28 ** 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan S-8 333-180726 04/13/12 10.1 10.29 ** Representative form of stock option agreement under the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan S-8 333-180726 04/13/12 10.2 10.30 ** Representative form of restricted stock unit agreement under the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan S-8 333-180726 04/13/12 10.3 10.31 ** Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective September 5, 2012 DEFA14A 0-29174 08/10/12 App. A 149 Table of Contents 10.32 Representative form of restricted stock unit agreement (executives and other employees) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan for grants starting in 2013 10-Q 0-29174 02/05/13 10.1 10.33 Representative form of performance stock option agreement (executives and other employees) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan 10-Q 0-29174 02/05/13 10.2 10.34 Representative form of performance restricted stock unit agreement (non-executive employees) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan 10-Q 0-29174 02/05/13 10.3 10.35 ** Representative form of performance share unit agreement (executives and other employees) under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan for grants starting in April 2013 10-K 0-29174 05/30/13 10.39 10.36 Waiver and Amendment Agreement, dated June 13, 2013, to the senior revolving credit facility agreement among Logitech International S.A., the lenders party thereto from time to time and Credit Suisse AG as Arranger and Agent. 10-Q 0-29174 08/07/13 10.1 10.37 Offer Letter between Logitech Inc. and Vincent Pilette dated September 3, 2013. 8-K 0-29174 09/06/13 10.1 150 Table of Contents 10.38 Form of restricted stock unit agreement for new hire grants to Vincent Pilette on September 15, 2013 under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. 10-Q 0-29174 11/05/13 10.2 10.39 Form of performance share unit agreement for new hire grants to Vincent Pilette on September 15, 2013 under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. 10-Q 0-29174 11/05/13 10.3 10.40 Form of restricted stock unit agreement for grant to Guerrino De Luca on October 15, 2013 under the Logitech International S.A. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. 10-Q 0-29174 11/05/13 10.4 21.1 List of subsidiaries of Logitech International S.A. X 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm X 24.1 Power of Attorney (incorporated by reference to the signature page of this Annual Report of Form 10-K) X 31.1 Certification by Chief Financial Officer pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 X 31.2 Certification by Chief Executive Officer pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 X 32.1 * Certification by Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 X 101.INS XBRL Instance Document X 151 Table of Contents 101.SCH XBRLTaxonomy Extension Schema Document X 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document X 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document X 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document X 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document X * This exhibit is furnished herewith, but not deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability under that section. Such certification will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that we explicitly incorporate it by reference. ** Indicates management compensatory plan, contract or arrangement. 152 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. /s/ BRACKEN P. DARRELL Bracken P. Darrell President and Chief Executive Officer /s/ VINCENT PILETTE Vincent Pilette Chief Financial Officer November 13, 2014 153 Table of Contents POWER OF ATTORNEY KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Bracken P. Darrell and Vincent Pilette, jointly and severally, his or her attorney-in-fact, with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. /s/ GUERRINO DE LUCA Guerrino De Luca Chairman of the Board November 13, 2014 /s/ BRACKEN P. DARRELL Bracken P. Darrell President and Chief Executive Officer November 13, 2014 /s/ VINCENT PILETTE Vincent Pilette Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer) November 13, 2014 /s/ DANIEL BOREL Daniel Borel Director November 13, 2014 /s/ MATTHEW BOUSQUETTE Matthew Bousquette Director November 13, 2014 /s/ KEE-LOCK CHUA Kee-Lock Chua Director November 13, 2014 /s/ SALLY DAVIS Sally Davis Director November 13, 2014 /s/ DIDIER HIRSCH Didier Hirsch Director November 13, 2014 154 Table of Contents /s/ NEIL HUNT Neil Hunt Director November 13, 2014 /s/ MONIKA RIBAR Monika Ribar Director November 13, 2014 155 Table of Contents INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 157 Consolidated Statements of OperationsYears Ended March 31, 2014, 2013 (revised) and 2012 (restated) 159 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)Years Ended March 31, 2014, 2013 (revised) and 2012 (restated) 160 Consolidated Balance SheetsMarch 31, 2014 and 2013 (revised) 161 Consolidated Statements of Cash FlowsYears Ended March 31, 2014, 2013 (revised) and 2012 (restated) 162 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' EquityYears Ended March 31, 2014, 2013(revised) and 2012 (restated) 163 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (restated) 164 INDEX TO SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data (revised, except for the three months ended June 30, 2011(restated) and three months ended March 31, 2014) 217 156 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Shareholders of Logitech International S.A. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Logitech International S.A. and its subsidiaries at March 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2014 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company did not maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) because material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting related to the following existed as of that date: The Company did not maintain an effective control environment as former finance management exercised bad judgment and failed to provide effective oversight, which resulted in ineffective information and communication, whereby certain of the Company's finance personnel did not adequately document and communicate accounting issues across the organization, including to the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. Additionally, there was an insufficient complement of personnel with appropriate accounting knowledge, experience and competence, resulting in incorrect conclusions in the application of generally accepted accounting principles; The Company did not design and maintain effective controls related to developing an appropriate methodology to accrue the costs of product warranties given to end customers, including an on-going review of the assumptions within the methodology to determine the completeness and accuracy of the warranty accrual; The Company did not design and maintain effective controls to consider all relevant information and document the underlying assumptions in their assessment of the valuation of finished goods, work in process and components inventory, including non-cancelable orders for such inventory, related to their now discontinued Revue product; and The Company did not design and maintain effective controls over the review of supporting information to determine the completeness and accuracy of the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (loss) and disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weaknesses referred to above are described in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. We considered these material weaknesses in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the March 31, 2014 consolidated financial statements, and our opinion regarding the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting does not affect our opinion on those consolidated financial statements. The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in management's report referred to above. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require 157 Table of Contents that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has restated its 2012 consolidated financial statements to correct a misstatement. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP San Jose, California November 13, 2014 158 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (In thousands, except per share amounts) Net sales $ 2,128,713 $ 2,099,277 $ 2,316,203 Cost of goods sold 1,400,844 1,389,643 1,508,670 Gross profit 727,869 709,634 807,533 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 379,747 431,886 422,116 Research and development 139,385 155,012 162,159 General and administrative 118,940 114,381 109,260 Impairment of goodwill and other assets 216,688 Restructuring charges 13,811 43,704 Total operating expenses 651,883 961,671 693,535 Operating income (loss) 75,986 (252,037 ) 113,998 Interest income (expense), net (397 ) 907 2,674 Other income (expense), net 1,993 (2,198 ) 7,655 Income (loss) before income taxes 77,582 (253,328 ) 124,327 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 3,278 (25,810 ) 20,090 Net income (loss) $ 74,304 $ (227,518 ) $ 104,237 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.46 $ (1.44 ) $ 0.60 Diluted $ 0.46 $ (1.44 ) $ 0.59 Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share : Basic 160,619 158,468 174,648 Diluted 162,526 158,468 175,591 Cash dividends per share $ 0.22 $ 0.85 $ The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 159 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (In thousands) Net income (loss) $ 74,304 $ (227,518 ) $ 104,237 Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation gain (loss): Foreign currency translation gain (loss) 2,119 (6,381 ) (8,232 ) Reclass of foreign currency translation loss included in other income, net 665 Defined benefit pension plans: Net gain (loss) and prior service costs, net of taxes 5,551 3,873 (11,549 ) Reclass of amortization included in operating expenses 2,017 3,633 260 Hedging gain (loss): Unrealized hedging gain (loss) (3,497 ) (1,190 ) 3,337 Reclass of hedging gain (loss) included in cost of goods sold 2,472 1,756 (421 ) Net change in unrealized investment loss: Net unrealized loss on investments for the period (342 ) Reclass of investment loss included in other income (expense), net (343 ) (483 ) Other comprehensive income (loss): 9,327 1,348 (17,430 ) Total comprehensive income (loss) $ 83,631 $ (226,170 ) $ 86,807 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 160 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands, except per share amounts) Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 469,412 $ 333,824 Accounts receivable, net 182,029 178,959 Inventories 222,402 262,644 Other current assets 59,157 60,377 Assets held for sale 10,960 Total current assets 933,000 846,764 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment, net 88,391 93,721 Goodwill 345,010 341,357 Other intangible assets 10,529 26,024 Other assets 74,460 74,467 Total assets $ 1,451,390 $ 1,382,333 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 242,815 $ 265,405 Accrued and other current liabilities 211,972 193,084 Liabilities held for sale 3,202 Total current liabilities 454,787 461,691 Non-current liabilities: Income taxes payable 93,126 98,827 Other non-current liabilities 99,349 99,862 Total liabilities 647,262 660,380 Commitments and contingencies (note 12) Shareholders' equity: Registered shares, CHF 0.25 par value: 30,148 30,148 Issued and authorized shares173,106 at March 31, 2014 and March 31, 2013 Conditionally authorized shares50,000 at March 31, 2014 and March 31, 2013 Additional paid-in capital Less shares in treasury, at cost10,206 at March 31, 2014 and 13,855 at March 31, 2013 (116,510 ) (179,990 ) Retained earnings 976,292 966,924 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (85,802 ) (95,129 ) Total shareholders' equity 804,128 721,953 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 1,451,390 $ 1,382,333 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 161 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands) Cash flows from operating activities: Net income (loss) $ 74,304 $ (227,518 ) $ 104,237 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation 48,967 51,766 52,277 Amortization of other intangible assets 17,771 23,571 27,198 Share-based compensation expense 25,546 25,198 31,529 Impairment of goodwill and other assets 216,688 Impairment of investments 624 3,600 Loss (gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,411 2,007 (6,533 ) Gain on sale of securities (831 ) (6,109 ) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation (2,246 ) (26 ) (37 ) Deferred income taxes and other (4,828 ) (3,209 ) (2,249 ) Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions: Accounts receivable (219 ) 45,273 29,279 Inventories 49,471 23,109 (33,277 ) Other assets (1,388 ) 5,381 (2,570 ) Accounts payable (21,322 ) (33,406 ) 3,327 Accrued and other liabilities 14,330 (9,214 ) 5,462 Net cash provided by operating activities 205,421 122,389 202,534 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchases of property, plant and equipment (46,658 ) (54,487 ) (54,199 ) Investment in privately held companies (300 ) (4,420 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (650 ) (18,814 ) Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities 917 6,550 Proceeds from return of investment from strategic investments 261 Proceeds from sales of property and plant 8,967 Purchase of trading investments (8,450 ) (4,196 ) (7,505 ) Proceeds from sales of trading investments 8,994 4,463 7,399 Net cash used in investing activities (46,803 ) (57,723 ) (57,602 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Payment of cash dividends (36,123 ) (133,462 ) Purchases of treasury shares (87,812 ) (156,036 ) Proceeds from sales of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights 16,914 15,982 17,591 Tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units (5,718 ) (2,375 ) (966 ) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 2,246 26 37 Net cash used in financing activities (22,681 ) (207,641 ) (139,374 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (349 ) (1,571 ) (5,119 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 135,588 (144,546 ) 439 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 333,824 478,370 477,931 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 469,412 $ 333,824 $ 478,370 Non-cash investing activities: Property, plant and equipment purchased during the period and included in period end liability accounts $ 5,204 $ 4,828 $ 5,454 Supplemental cash flow information: Interest paid $ 1,080 $ 1,293 $ 110 Income taxes paid, net $ 9,189 $ 14,108 $ 14,422 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 162 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (In thousands) March 31, 2011 (As Reported) 191,606 $ 33,370 $ 12,433 $ (264,019 ) $ 1,488,929 $ (78,518 ) $ 1,179,762 Adjustment to opening shareholders' equity, net of tax (21,359 ) (529 ) (21,888 ) March 31, 2011 (As Restated) 191,606 $ 33,370 $ 12,433 $ (264,019 ) $ 1,467,570 $ (79,047 ) $ 1,157,874 Total comprehensive income (loss) 104,237 (17,430 ) 86,807 Purchase of treasury shares 17,509 (156,036 ) (156,036 ) Tax effects from share-based awards (4,991 ) (4,991 ) Sale of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights (17,055 ) (2,442 ) 67,754 (33,080 ) 17,619 Issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units (9,237 ) (327 ) 8,472 (765 ) Share-based compensation expense 31,283 31,283 March 31, 2012 (As Restated) 191,606 $ 33,370 $ 27,173 $ (343,829 ) $ 1,538,727 $ (96,477 ) $ 1,131,791 Total comprehensive income (loss) (227,518 ) 1,348 (226,170 ) Purchase of treasury shares 8,600 (87,812 ) (87,812 ) Tax effects from share-based awards (1,178 ) (1,178 ) Sale of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights (2,326 ) (2,604 ) 61,653 (43,331 ) 15,996 Issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units (21,341 ) (814 ) 19,284 (2,057 ) Share-based compensation expense 24,845 24,845 Cash dividends (133,462 ) (133,462 ) Cancellation of treasury shares (18,500 ) (3,222 ) (18,500 ) 170,714 (167,492 ) March 31, 2013 (As Revised) 173,106 $ 30,148 $ 13,855 $ (179,990 ) $ 966,924 $ (95,129 ) $ 721,953 Total comprehensive income 74,304 9,327 83,631 Purchase of treasury shares Tax effects from share-based awards (2,046 ) (2,046 ) Sale of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights 339 (2,601 ) 45,388 (28,813 ) 16,914 Issuance of shares upon vesting of restricted stock units (23,810 ) (1,048 ) 18,092 (5,718 ) Share-based compensation expense 25,517 25,517 Cash dividends (36,123 ) (36,123 ) March 31, 2014 173,106 $ 30,148 $ 10,206 $ (116,510 ) $ 976,292 $ (85,802 ) $ 804,128 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 163 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1The Company Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") develops and markets innovative hardware and software products that enable or enhance digital navigation, music and video entertainment, gaming, social networking, and audio and video communication over the Internet. The Company has two operating segments, peripherals and video conferencing. Logitech's peripherals segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of peripherals for personal computers ("PCs"), tablets and other digital platforms. The Company's video conferencing segment offers scalable high-definition ("HD") video communications endpoints, HD video conferencing systems with integrated monitors, video bridges and other infrastructure software and hardware to support large-scale video deployments, and services to support these products. The Company sells its peripherals products to a network of distributors, retailers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). The Company sells its video conferencing products and services to distributors, value-added resellers, OEMs and, occasionally, direct enterprise customers. The large majority of the Company's net sales have historically been derived from peripherals products for use by consumers. Logitech was founded in Switzerland in 1981 and Logitech International S.A. has been the parent holding company of Logitech since 1988. Logitech International S.A. is a Swiss holding company with its registered office in Apples, Switzerland, which conducts its business through subsidiaries in Americas, Europe, Middle East, Africa ("EMEA") and Asia Pacific. Shares of Logitech International S.A. are listed on both the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the trading symbol LOGI and the SIX Swiss Exchange under the trading symbol LOGN. Note 2Restatement and Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements As the Company announced on May 21, 2014, the Audit Committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, began an independent investigation of certain accounting matters related to the Company's previously issued financial statements. On September 3, 2014, the Company announced that, in connection with this investigation, the Audit Committee, on the recommendation of management, concluded that the Company's previously issued financial statements for fiscal years 2011 and 2012 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 could no longer be relied on due to an accounting misstatement for inventory valuation reserves for Logitech's now-discontinued Revue product. As a result, the Company recorded an adjustment to increase cost of goods sold and to increase inventory valuation reserves and the accrual for supplier liability for components related to the Company's now discontinued Revue product by $30.7 million during fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, with a corresponding decrease to cost of goods sold in fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. As a result, net income and net income per share for fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 was reduced by $30.7 million and $0.17 per share, respectively, with a corresponding increase in fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. In conjunction with recording of the adjustments related to this restatement, the Company recorded other immaterial corrections to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012. The Audit Committee has completed its independent investigation and found that, in connection with its quarterly close processes, up until June 2013, the Company's finance organization would compile lists of financial items, which included significant accounting entries recorded during the quarter, late accounting 164 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 2Restatement and Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) entries, disclosure items and certain other items with potential accounting implications. The lists used to track these financial items appear to have been primarily shared within certain parts of the Company's finance organization and were not shared with the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. Typically, there were between approximately thirty to fifty items per quarter on these lists and there were multiple versions of these lists per quarter, as items were added, removed and changed. Some of the items on the list were discussed with the Company's independent registered public accounting firm while others were not. As part of the independent investigation, the Company determined that nine historical items from these lists during a five year period should have been recorded in an earlier period or a different amount should have been recorded. The largest item relates to the now-discontinued Revue product and is the cause for the restatement. Two itemsthe warranty accrual and the amortization of certain intangible assetswere on the lists in prior periods and were not addressed in a timely manner before the Company corrected them in its revised Form 10-K/A filed on August 7, 2013. Certain former finance employees signed the May 30, 2013 management representation letter to the Company's independent registered public accounting firm without disclosing these issues and, as a result, the management representation letter was inaccurate on this point. Six items are not material individually or in aggregate to any of the annual or interim periods reported but are nevertheless being corrected in these restated consolidated financial statements. There are two elements to the restatement related to the Revue product: (1) a lower of cost or market ("LCM") charge based on the net realizable value of finished goods and work in process on-hand inventory and non-cancelable orders for such inventory, and (2) an excess and obsolescence charge for non-cancelable orders for inventory components. The Audit Committee found that certain former members of the finance organization had information that was not considered, that showed a future loss that was estimable and probable before the filing of the Form 10-K on May 27, 2011 and that such loss was not recorded in the Company's fiscal year 2011 financial statements. Certain former members of the finance organization erroneously accounted for the LCM charge in fiscal year 2011 based on the current price or on price reductions approved by management instead of considering available contemporaneous evidence of anticipated future price reductions and losses which were estimable and probable at the time. In addition, the Audit Committee found that a management representation letter dated May 27, 2011 to the Company's independent registered public accounting firm incorrectly stated that probable future pricing adjustments were considered in the LCM calculation. With respect to the Revue components, certain former members of the finance organization did not consider all available information and therefore did not record a charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 for non-cancelable orders related to components considered excess and obsolete. The analysis erroneously assumed the components would be manufactured into finished goods, though there was information available that showed that the components would not be manufactured into finished goods. This information was not reflected in the Company's accounting or provided to the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. The Audit Committee found that the Company did not have an adequate basis for the historical accounting treatment of the components in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. The restated and revised financial statements included the following adjustments: (1) Inventory Valuation Reserve As described above, the Company determined that there was a material accounting misstatement for Logitech's now-discontinued Revue product in fiscal years 165 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 2Restatement and Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 2012 and 2011. As a result, the Company recorded an adjustment to increase cost of goods sold, and to increase inventory valuation reserves and supplier liability for components related to the Company's now discontinued Revue product by $30.7 million during fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, with a corresponding decrease to cost of goods sold during fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. (2) Property Plant and Equipment Capitalization Threshold Convention Historically, the Company's practice was to apply an accounting convention to immediately expense the entire purchase price of all property and equipment that cost less than certain dollar thresholds instead of capitalizing and depreciating such property and equipment over its useful life. The Company determined that the thresholds utilized were incorrect and resulted in a cumulative understatement of net income and retained earnings through March 31, 2011 of $8.3 million, which the company corrected through an increase to opening retained earnings as of that date. The impact of the correction also resulted in a decrease in cost of goods sold and operating expense and increase in operating income of $0.1 million in fiscal year 2012 and an increase in cost of goods sold and operating expense and increase in operating loss of $1.3 million in fiscal year 2013. (3) Settlement Accrual The Company determined that it incorrectly recorded a release of a legal settlement accrual of $1.3 million in fiscal year 2012 instead of correctly in fiscal year 2011 as the contingency was resolved before the Annual Report Form 10-K of fiscal year 2011 was issued. The impact of this adjustment was an increase in operating income by $1.3 million in fiscal year 2011 and a corresponding decrease of operating income for the same amount in fiscal year 2012. (4) Other Adjustments The Company is also correcting a number of other immaterial errors which were previously recorded in prior periods as out-of-period adjustments and are now being revised to report them in the correct period as well as to correct other immaterial errors that were previously uncorrected. Among the corrections, the Company is correcting its accrual for worker compensation, liability for certain of its defined benefit pension plans, balance sheet reclassifications, cash flow reclassifications and tax impact of the above adjustments. 166 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 2Restatement and Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Consolidated Statements of Operations The following table presents the impact of correcting adjustments on the Company's previously-reported consolidated statements of operations for fiscal years 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Net sales $ 2,099,883 $ (606 )(4) $ 2,099,277 $ 2,316,203 $ $ 2,316,203 Cost of goods sold 1,389,726 1,389,643 1,537,921 (30,730 )(1) 1,508,670 408 (2) (25 )(2) 1,294 (3) (491 )(4) 210 (4) Gross profit 710,157 (523 ) 709,634 778,282 29,251 807,533 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 431,598 396 (2) 431,886 423,854 (24 )(2) 422,116 (108 )(4) (1,714 )(4) Research and development 154,207 324 (2) 155,012 162,711 (20 )(2) 162,159 481 (4) (532 )(4) General and administrative 113,824 214 (2) 114,381 109,456 (13 )(2) 109,260 343 (4) (183 )(4) Impairment of goodwill and other assets 216,688 216,688 Restructuring charges 43,704 43,704 Total operating expenses 960,021 1,650 961,671 696,021 (2,486 ) 693,535 Operating income (loss) (249,864 ) (2,173 ) (252,037 ) 82,261 31,737 113,998 Interest income, net 907 907 2,674 2,674 Other income (expense), net (2,198 ) (2,198 ) 7,655 7,655 Income (loss) before income taxes (251,155 ) (2,173 ) (253,328 ) 92,590 31,737 124,327 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (25,588 ) (222 )(4) (25,810 ) 19,819 271 (4) 20,090 Net income (loss) $ (225,567 ) $ (1,951 ) $ (227,518 ) $ 72,771 $ 31,466 $ 104,237 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ (1.42 ) $ (0.02 ) $ (1.44 ) $ 0.42 $ 0.18 $ 0.60 Diluted $ (1.42 ) $ (0.02 ) $ (1.44 ) $ 0.41 $ 0.18 $ 0.59 Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 158,468 158,468 174,648 174,648 Diluted 158,468 158,468 175,591 175,591 Cash dividend per share $ 0.85 $ $ 0.85 $ $ $ 167 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 2 Restatement and Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) The following table presents the impact of correcting adjustments on the Company's previously-reported consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) for fiscal years 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Net income (loss) $ (225,567 ) $ $ (227,518 ) $ 72,771 $ 30,730 (1) $ 104,237 (1,342 )(2) 82 (2) (1,294 )(3) (609 )(4) 1,948 (4) Other comprehensive income: Foreign currency translation loss: Foreign currency translation loss (6,333 ) (48 )(4) (6,381 ) (8,213 ) (19 )(4) (8,232 ) Defined benefit pension plans: Net gain (loss) and prior service costs, net of taxes 4,794 (921 )(4) 3,873 (11,564 ) 15 (4) (11,549 ) Reclass of amortization included in operating expenses 4,252 (619 )(4) 3,633 275 (15 )(4) 260 Hedging gain (loss): Unrealized hedging gain (loss) (1,190 ) (1,190 ) 3,337 3,337 Reclass of hedging loss (gain) included in cost of goods sold 1,756 1,756 (421 ) (421 ) Net change in unrealized investment loss: Net unrealized loss on investments for the period (342 ) (342 ) Reclass of investment gain included in other income (expense), net (343 ) (343 ) (483 ) (483 ) Other comprehensive income (loss): 2,936 (1,588 ) 1,348 (17,411 ) (19 ) (17,430 ) Total comprehensive income (loss) $ (222,631 ) $ (3,539 ) $ (226,170 ) $ 55,360 $ 31,447 $ 86,807 168 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 2 Restatement and Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Consolidated Balance Sheet The following table presents the impact of correcting adjustments on the Company's previously-reported consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2013 (in thousands): ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 333,824 $ $ 333,824 Accounts receivable, net 179,565 (606 )(4) 178,959 Inventories 261,083 1,561 (4) 262,644 Other current assets 58,103 2,274 (4) 60,377 Asset held for sale 10,960 10,960 Total current assets 843,535 3,229 846,764 Non-recurring assets: Property, plant and equipment, net 87,649 7,034 (2) 93,721 (962 )(4) Goodwill 341,357 341,357 Other intangible assets 26,024 26,024 Other assets 75,098 (631 )(4) 74,467 Total assets $ 1,373,663 $ 8,670 $ 1,382,333 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 265,995 (590 )(4) 265,405 Accrued and other current liabilities 192,774 310 (4) 193,084 Liabilities held for sale 3,202 3,202 Total current liabilities 461,971 (280 ) 461,691 Non-current liabilities: Income taxes payable 98,827 98,827 Other non-current liabilities 97,055 2,807 (4) 99,862 Total liabilities $ 657,853 $ 2,527 $ 660,380 Commitments and contingencies Shareholders' equity: Registered shares, CHF 0.25 par value: Issued and authorized shares173,106 at March 31, 2013 Conditionally authorized shares50,000 at March 31, 2013 $ 30,148 30,148 Additional paid-in capital Less: shares in treasury, at cost13,855 at March 31, 2013 (177,847 ) (2,143 )(4) (179,990 ) Retained earnings 956,502 7,034 (2) 966,924 3,388 (4) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (92,993 ) (2,136 )(4) (95,129 ) Total shareholders' equity 715,810 6,143 721,953 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 1,373,663 $ 8,670 $ 1,382,333 169 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 2 Restatement and Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows The following table presents the impact of correcting adjustments on the Company's previously-reported consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal years 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Cash flows from operating activities: Net income (loss) $ (225,567 ) $ $ (227,518 ) $ 72,771 $ 30,730 (1) $ 104,237 (1,342 )(2) 82 (2) (1,294 )(3) (609 )(4) 1,948 (4) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation 44,419 6,589 (2) 51,766 45,968 6,310 (2) 52,277 758 (4) (1 )(4) Amortization of other intangible assets 23,571 23,571 27,198 27,198 Share-based compensation expense 25,198 25,198 31,529 31,529 Impairment of goodwill and other assets 216,688 216,688 Impairment of investments 3,600 3,600 Loss (gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,007 (4) 2,007 (8,967 ) 2,434 (4) (6,533 ) Gain on sales of available-for-sale securities (831 ) (831 ) (6,109 ) (6,109 ) Inventory valuation adjustment 34,074 (34,074 )(1) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation (26 ) (26 ) (37 ) (37 ) Deferred income taxes and other 11,552 (14,761 )(4) (3,209 ) 137 (2,386 )(4) (2,249 ) Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions: Accounts receivable 44,667 606 (4) 45,273 29,279 29,279 Inventories 23,954 (845 )(4) 23,109 (36,621 ) 3,344 (4) (33,277 ) Other assets (1,420 ) 6,801 (4) 5,381 (4,621 ) 2,051 (4) (2,570 ) Accounts payable (34,069 ) 663 (4) (33,406 ) 3,622 (295 )(4) 3,327 Accrued and other liabilities (14,594 ) (9,214 ) 7,919 1,294 (3) 5,462 5,380 (4) (3,751 )(4) Net cash provided by operating activities 117,142 5,247 122,389 196,142 6,392 202,534 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchases of property, plant and equipment (49,240 ) (5,247 )(2) (54,487 ) (47,807 ) (6,392 )(2) (54,199 ) Purchase of strategic investment (4,420 ) (4,420 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (18,814 ) (18,814 ) Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities 917 917 6,550 6,550 Proceeds from sales of property and plant 8,967 8,967 Purchases of trading investments (4,196 ) (4,196 ) (7,505 ) (7,505 ) Proceeds from sales of trading investments 4,463 4,463 7,399 7,399 Net cash used in investing activities (52,476 ) (5,247 ) (57,723 ) (51,210 ) (6,392 ) (57,602 ) 170 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 2 Restatement and Revision of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Cash flows from financing activities: Payment of cash dividends (133,462 ) (133,462 ) Purchases of treasury shares (87,812 ) (87,812 ) (156,036 ) (156,036 ) Proceeds from sales of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights 15,982 15,982 17,591 17,591 Tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units (2,375 ) (2,375 ) (966 ) (966 ) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 26 26 37 37 Net cash used in financing activities (207,641 ) (207,641 ) (139,374 ) (139,374 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,571 ) (1,571 ) (5,119 ) (5,119 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (144,546 ) (144,546 ) 439 439 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 478,370 478,370 477,931 477,931 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 333,824 $ $ 333,824 $ 478,370 $ $ 478,370 Non-cash investing activities: Property, plant and equipment purchased during the period and included in period end liability accounts $ 4,828 $ $ 4,828 $ 5,454 $ $ 5,454 Supplemental cash flow information: Interest paid $ 1,293 $ $ 1,293 $ 110 $ $ 110 Income taxes paid, net $ 14,108 $ $ 14,108 $ 14,422 $ $ 14,422 Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Logitech and its subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. The consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America). Fiscal Year The Company's fiscal year ends on March 31. Interim quarters are thirteen-week periods, each ending on a Friday. For purposes of presentation, the Company has indicated its quarterly periods as ending on the month end. 171 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Examples of significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, warranty liabilities, accruals for discretionary customer programs, sales return reserves, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the Company in the future, actual results could differ from those estimates. Foreign Currencies The functional currency of the Company's operations is primarily the U.S. Dollar. To a lesser extent, certain operations use the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Swiss Franc, or other local currencies as their functional currencies. The financial statements of the Company's subsidiaries whose functional currency is other than the U.S. Dollar are translated to U.S. Dollars using period-end rates of exchange for assets and liabilities and monthly average rates for net sales, income and expenses. Cumulative translation gains and losses are included as a component of shareholders' equity in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than a subsidiary's functional currency are reported in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized when all of the following criteria are met: evidence of an arrangement between the Company and the customer exists; delivery has occurred and title and risk of loss has transferred to the customer; the price of the product is fixed or determinable; and collectability of the receivable is reasonably assured. For sales of most hardware peripherals products and hardware bundled with software incidental to its functionality, these criteria are met at the time delivery has occurred and title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. The Company's video conferencing segment has multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements that include both undelivered software elements and hardware with software essential to its functionality. The Company uses the following hierarchy to determine the relative selling price for allocating revenue to the deliverables: (i) VSOE (vendor specific objective evidence) of fair value, if available; (ii) TPE (third party evidence), if VSOE is not available; or (iii) ESP (best estimate of selling price), if neither VSOE nor TPE are available. Management judgment must be used to determine the appropriate deliverables and associated relative selling prices. The Company has identified Logitech Revue, discontinued in fiscal year 2013, and the Lifesize video conferencing products as products sold with software components that qualify as multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. Lifesize products include the following deliverables: Non-software deliverables 172 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Hardware with software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered at time of sale Maintenance for hardware with essential software, including future when-and-if-available unspecified upgrades Other services, including training and installation Software deliverables Non-essential software Maintenance for non-essential software, including future when-and-if available unspecified upgrades The relative selling price for Lifesize hardware with essential software and non-essential software is based on ESP, as VSOE and TPE cannot be established due to variable price discounting. Key factors considered in developing ESP are historical selling prices of the product, pricing of substantially similar products, and other market conditions. Lifesize sells maintenance for non-essential software, maintenance for hardware with essential software, and other services on a standalone basis, and therefore has established VSOE for those deliverables. The consideration received for multiple element arrangements consisting of both non-software and software deliverables is allocated based on relative selling prices to the non-software deliverables and the software deliverables as a group. Amounts allocated to non-software-related elements, such as delivered hardware with essential software, are recognized at the time of sale provided that the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to maintenance services for hardware and essential software are deferred and recognized ratably over the maintenance period. Amounts allocated to other services are deferred and recognized upon completion of services. Amounts allocated to software deliverables such as non-essential software and related services are further allocated to the individual deliverables within the software group. The VSOE of non-essential software-related maintenance are deferred and recognized ratably over the maintenance period. The residual value of the amounts allocated to software- related elements is recognized at the time of sale. Revenues from sales to distributors and authorized resellers are recognized upon shipment net of estimated product returns and expected payments for cooperative marketing arrangements, customer incentive programs and pricing programs. The estimated cost of these programs is recorded as a reduction of sales or as an operating expense, if the Company receives a separately identifiable benefit from the customer and can reasonably estimate the fair value of that benefit. Significant management judgment and estimates must be used to determine the cost of these programs in any accounting period. The Company grants limited rights to return product. Return rights vary by customer, and range from just the right to return defective product to stock rotation rights limited to a percentage approved by management. Estimates of expected future product returns are recognized at the time of sale based on analyses of historical return trends by customer and by product, inventories owned by and located at distributors and retailers, current customer demand, current operating conditions, and other relevant customer and product information. Upon recognition the Company reduces sales and cost of sales for the estimated return. Return trends are influenced by product life cycle status, new product introductions, market acceptance of products, sales levels, product sell-through, the type of customer, seasonality, product quality issues, competitive pressures, operational policies and procedures, and other factors. 173 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Return rates can fluctuate over time, but are sufficiently predictable to allow the Company to estimate expected future product returns. The Company enters into cooperative marketing arrangements with many of its distribution and retail customers, and with certain indirect partners, allowing customers to receive a credit equal to a set percentage of their purchases of the Company's products, or a fixed dollar credit for various marketing programs. The objective of these arrangements is to encourage advertising and promotional events to increase sales of the Company's products. Accruals for these marketing arrangements are recorded at the later of time of sale or time of commitment, based on negotiated terms, historical experience and inventory levels in the channel. Customer incentive programs include performance-based incentives and consumer rebates. The Company offers performance-based incentives to its distribution customers, retail customers and indirect partners based on pre-determined performance criteria. Accruals for performance-based incentives are recognized as a reduction of the sale price at the time of sale. Estimates of required accruals are determined based on negotiated terms, consideration of historical experience, anticipated volume of future purchases, and inventory levels in the channel. Consumer rebates are offered from time to time at the Company's discretion for the primary benefit of end-users. Accruals for the estimated costs of consumer rebates and similar incentives are recorded at the later of time of sale or when the incentive is offered, based on the specific terms and conditions. Certain incentive programs, including consumer rebates, require management to estimate the number of customers who will actually redeem the incentive based on historical experience and the specific terms and conditions of particular programs. The Company has agreements with certain of its customers that contain terms allowing price protection credits to be issued in the event of a subsequent price reduction. At management's discretion, the Company also offers special pricing discounts to certain customers. Special pricing discounts are usually offered only for limited time periods or for sales of selected products to specific indirect partners. Management's decision to make price reductions is influenced by product life cycle stage, market acceptance of products, the competitive environment, new product introductions and other factors. Accruals for estimated expected future pricing actions are recognized at the time of sale based on analyses of historical pricing actions by customer and by products, inventories owned by and located at distributors and retailers, current customer demand, current operating conditions, and other relevant customer and product information, such as stage of product life-cycle. The Company regularly evaluates the adequacy of its estimates for product returns, cooperative marketing arrangements, customer incentive programs and pricing programs. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to take action to change such programs. In addition, when the variables used to estimate these costs change, or if actual costs differ significantly from the estimates, the Company would be required to record incremental increases or reductions to sales, cost of goods sold or increase operating expenses. If, at any future time, the Company becomes unable to reasonably estimate these costs, recognition of revenue might be deferred until products are sold to users, which would adversely impact sales in the period of transition. The Company's shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. 174 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Research and Development Costs Costs related to research, design and development of products, which consist primarily of personnel, product design and infrastructure expenses, are charged to research and development expense as they are incurred. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising costs are recorded as either a marketing and selling expense or a deduction from revenue. Advertising costs reimbursed by the Company to direct or indirect customers must have an identifiable benefit and an estimable fair value in order to be classified as an operating expense. If these criteria are not met, the cost is classified as a reduction of revenue. Advertising costs during fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $161.2 million, $165.8 million and $168.0 million, respectively. Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The Company maintains cash and cash equivalents with various financial institutions to limit exposure with any one financial institution, but is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by financial institutions to the extent that cash balances with individual financial institutions are in excess of amounts that are insured. The Company sells to large OEMs, distributors and retailers and, as a result, maintains individually significant receivable balances with such customers. In fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, one customer in the peripherals operating segment represented 14%, 11% and 14% of net sales, respectively. No other customer represented more than 10% of the Company's total net sales during fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012. As of both March 31, 2014 and 2013, one customer represented 14% of total accounts receivable. No other customer represented more than 10% of the Company's total accounts receivable at either March 31, 2014 or 2013. Typical payment terms require customers to pay for product sales generally within 30 to 60 days; however terms may vary by customer type, by country and by selling season. Extended payment terms are sometimes offered to a limited number of customers during the second and third fiscal quarters. The Company does not modify payment terms on existing receivables. The Company's OEM customers tend to be well-capitalized multi-national companies, while distributors and key retailers may be less well-capitalized. The Company manages its accounts receivable credit risk through ongoing credit evaluation of its customers' financial condition. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts Allowances for doubtful accounts are maintained for estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Company's customers to make required payments. The allowances are based on the Company's regular assessment of the credit worthiness and financial condition of specific customers, as well as its historical 175 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) experience with bad debts and customer deductions, receivables aging, current economic trends, geographic or country-specific risks and the financial condition of its distribution channels. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Costs are computed under the standard cost method, which approximates actual costs determined on the first-in, first-out basis. The Company records write-downs of inventories which are obsolete or in excess of anticipated demand or market value based on a consideration of marketability and product life cycle stage, product development plans, component cost trends, demand forecasts, historical net sales, and assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Investments The Company's investment securities portfolio consists of bank time deposits and marketable securities related to a deferred compensation plan. The bank time deposits are classified as cash equivalents and are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. The marketable securities related to the deferred compensation plan are classified as non-current trading investments, as they are intended to fund the deferred compensation plan long-term liability. Trading activity is directed by plan participants and is not intended to create short-term gains for the benefit of the Company. These securities are recorded at fair value based on quoted market prices. Earnings, gains and losses on trading investments are included in other income (expense), net. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Additions and improvements are capitalized, and maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes the cost of software developed for internal use in connection with major projects. Costs incurred during the feasibility stage are expensed, whereas direct costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method. Plant and buildings are depreciated over estimated useful lives from ten to twenty-five years, equipment over useful lives from three to five years, internal-use software development over useful lives of three to seven years and leasehold improvements over the lesser of the useful life of the improvement, up to ten years, or the term of the lease. When property and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are relieved from the accounts and the net gain or loss is included in the determination of other income (expense), net. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets The Company reviews long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, and finite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events indicate that the carrying amounts might not be recoverable. Recoverability of property and equipment, and other finite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with those assets to their carrying values. If an asset is considered impaired, it is written down to fair value, which is determined based on the asset's projected discounted cash flows or appraised value, depending on the nature of the asset. For purposes of 176 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) recognition of an impairment for assets held for use, the Company groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company's intangible assets principally include goodwill, acquired technology, trademarks, customer contracts, and customer relationships. Other intangible assets with finite lives, which include acquired technology, trademarks, customer contracts and customer relationships, and other are recorded at cost and amortized using the straight-line method over their useful lives ranging from one year to ten years. Intangible assets with indefinite lives, which include goodwill, are recorded at cost and evaluated at least annually for impairment. In accordance with ASC Topic 350-10 ("ASC 350-10") as it relates to Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, the Company conducts its annual goodwill impairment analysis as of December 31 each year and as necessary if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units may be less than its carrying amount. Events or changes in facts and circumstances that might indicate potential impairment of goodwill include company-specific factors, including, but not limited to, stock price volatility, market capitalization relative to net book value, and projected revenue, market growth and operating results. Determining the number of reporting units and the fair value of a reporting unit requires the Company to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The Company has two reporting units: peripherals and video conferencing. The allocation of assets and liabilities to each of the reporting units also involves judgment and assumptions. FASB ASC 350-20 permits the Company to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount before applying the two-step goodwill impairment test. If an entity concludes that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it would not be required to perform the two-step impairment test for that reporting unit. The Company may elect to proceed directly to Step 1 without performing a qualitative assessment. Step 1 of the two-step impairment test involves measuring the recoverability of goodwill at the reporting unit level by comparing the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The fair value is estimated using an income approach employing a discounted cash flow ("DCF") and a market-based model. The DCF model is based on projected cash flows from the Company's most recent forecast ("assessment forecast") developed in connection with each of its reporting units to perform the goodwill impairment assessment. The assessment forecast is based on a number of key assumptions, including, but not limited to, discount rate, compound annual growth rate ("CAGR") during the forecast period, and terminal value. The terminal value is based on an exit price at the end of the assessment forecast using an earnings multiple applied to the final year of the assessment forecast. The discount rate is applied to the projected cash flows to reflect the risks inherent in the timing and amount of the projected cash flows, including the terminal value, and is derived from the weighted average cost of capital of market participants in similar businesses. The market approach model is based on applying certain revenue and earnings multiples of comparable companies relevant to each of the Company's reporting units to the respective revenue and earnings metrics of its reporting units. To test the reasonableness of the fair values indicated by the income approach and the market-based approach, the Company also assess the implied premium of the aggregate fair value over the market capitalization considered attributable to an acquisition control premium, which is the price in excess of a stock market's price that investors would typically pay to gain control of an entity. The DCF model and the market 177 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) approach require the exercise of significant judgment, including assumptions about appropriate discount rates, long-term growth rates for purposes of determining a terminal value at the end of the discrete forecast period, economic expectations, timing of expected future cash flows, and expectations of returns on equity that will be achieved. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value as determined by these assessments, goodwill is considered impaired, and Step 2 of the analysis is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. Step 2 measures the impairment loss by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to its assets and liabilities other than goodwill, comparing the resulting implied fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount, and recording an impairment charge for the difference. Income Taxes The Company provides for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. In estimating future tax consequences, expected future events are taken into consideration, with the exception of potential tax law or tax rate changes. The Company's assessment of uncertain tax positions requires that management make estimates and judgments about the application of tax law, the expected resolution of uncertain tax positions and other matters. In the event that uncertain tax positions are resolved for amounts different than the Company's estimates, or the related statutes of limitations expire without the assessment of additional income taxes, the Company will be required to adjust the amounts of the related assets and liabilities in the period in which such events occur. Such adjustments may have a material impact on the Company's income tax provision and its results of operations. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying value of certain of the Company's financial instruments, including cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximates fair value due to their short maturities. The Company's trading investments related to the deferred compensation plan are reported at fair value based on quoted market prices. Net Income (Loss) per Share Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average outstanding shares. Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed using the weighted average outstanding shares and dilutive share equivalents. Dilutive share equivalents consist of share-based compensation awards, including stock options, employee share purchase plan, and restricted stock. The dilutive effect of in-the-money share-based compensation awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method, which assumes that the amount used to repurchase shares includes the amount the employee must pay for exercising share-based awards, the amount of compensation cost not yet recognized for future service, and the amount of tax impact that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible. 178 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Share-Based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense includes compensation expense, reduced for estimated forfeitures, for share-based compensation awards granted based on the grant-date fair value. The grant date fair value for stock options and stock purchase rights is estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing valuation model. The grant date fair value of RSUs ("restricted stock units") which vest upon meeting certain market conditions is estimated using the Monte-Carlo simulation method. The grant date fair value of time-based RSUs is calculated based on the market price on the date of grant. Excess tax benefits resulting from the exercise of stock options are classified as cash flows from financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Excess tax benefits are realized tax benefits from tax deductions for exercised options in excess of the deferred tax asset attributable to share-based compensation costs for such options. The Company will recognize a benefit from share-based compensation in paid-in capital only if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other available tax attributes have been utilized. For income tax footnote disclosure, the Company has elected to offset deferred tax assets from share-based compensation against the valuation allowance related to the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards from accumulated tax benefits. The Company will recognize these tax benefits in paid-in capital when the deduction reduces cash taxes payable. In addition, the Company has elected to account for the direct benefits of share-based compensation on the research tax credit through continuing operations. Product Warranty Accrual The Company estimates cost of product warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected costs, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Company's typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates estimates to assess the adequacy of recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liabilities would be required and could materially affect the Company's results of operations. Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive income (loss) is defined as the total change in shareholders' equity during the period other than from transactions with shareholders. Comprehensive income (loss) consists of net income (loss) and other comprehensive income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss) is comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments from those entities not using the U.S. Dollar as their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses on marketable equity securities, net deferred gains and losses and prior service costs for defined benefit pension plans, and net deferred gains and losses on hedging activity. Treasury Shares The Company periodically repurchases shares in the market at fair value. Treasury shares repurchased are recorded at cost as a reduction of total shareholders' equity. Treasury shares held may be reissued to satisfy the exercise of employee stock options and purchase rights, the vesting of restricted stock units, and acquisitions, or may be cancelled with shareholder approval. Treasury shares that are reissued are accounted for using the first-in, first-out basis. 179 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 3Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Derivative Financial Instruments The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables or payables and to hedge against exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to its subsidiaries' forecasted inventory purchases. These forward contracts generally mature within one to three months. The Company may also enter into foreign exchange swap contracts to extend the terms of its foreign exchange forward contracts. Gains and losses for changes in the fair value of the effective portion of the Company's forward contracts related to forecasted inventory purchases are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold. Gains or losses for changes in the fair value on forward contracts that offset translation losses or gains on foreign currency receivables or payables are recognized are included in other income (expense), net. Restructuring Charges The Company's restructuring charges consist of employee severance, one-time termination benefits and ongoing benefits related to the reduction of its workforce, lease exit costs, and other costs. Liabilities for costs associated with a restructuring activity are measured at fair value and are recognized when the liability is incurred, as opposed to when management commits to a restructuring plan. One-time termination benefits are expensed at the date the entity notifies the employee, unless the employee must provide future service, in which case the benefits are expensed ratably over the future service period. Ongoing benefits are expensed when restructuring activities are probable and the benefit amounts are estimable. Costs to terminate a lease before the end of its term are recognized when the property is vacated. Other costs primarily consist of legal, consulting, and other costs related to employee terminations and are expensed when incurred. Termination benefits are calculated based on regional benefit practices and local statutory requirements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists . This ASU provides explicit guidance on the financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. ASU No. 2013-11 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2013 and was effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," ("ASU 2014-09"). ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. This new revenue recognition model provides a five-step analysis in determining when and how revenue is recognized. The new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard will be effective for the Company beginning April 1, 2017. Early application is prohibited. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that adopting this new accounting guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 180 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 4Net Income (Loss) per Share The computations of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share for the Company were as follows (in thousands except per share amounts): Net income (loss) $ 74,304 $ (227,518 ) $ 104,237 Shares used in net income (loss) per share computation: Weighted average shares outstandingbasic 160,619 158,468 174,648 Effect of potentially dilutive equivalent shares 1,907 943 Weighted average shares outstandingdiluted 162,526 158,468 175,591 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.46 $ (1.44 ) $ 0.60 Diluted $ 0.46 $ (1.44 ) $ 0.59 During fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, 15,091,478, 22,859,941, and 18,431,855 share equivalents attributable to outstanding stock options, RSUs, and ESPP were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share because the combined exercise price, average unamortized fair value and assumed tax benefits upon exercise of these options, RSUs, and ESPP were greater than the average market price of the Company's shares, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. Note 5Employee Benefit Plans Employee Share Purchase Plans and Stock Incentive Plans As of March 31, 2014, the Company offers the 2006 ESPP (2006 Employee Share Purchase Plan (Non-U.S.)), the 1996 ESPP (1996 Employee Share Purchase Plan (U.S.)), the 2006 Plan (2006 Stock Incentive Plan) and the 2012 Plan (2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan). The 2012 Plan was approved by the Board of Directors in April 2012. On April 13, 2012, the Company filed registration statements to register 5.0 million additional shares to be issued pursuant to the 2006 ESPP and 1.8 million shares under the 2012 Plan. On September 5, 2012, at the fiscal year 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, Logitech shareholders approved amendments to and restatement of the 2006 Plan, which included the increase of 7.3 million additional shares to be issued under this plan and to prohibit the repricing of options or stock appreciation rights. On October 25, 2012, the Company filed a registration statement to register the 7.3 million additional shares under the 2006 Plan. On September 4, 2013, at the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to, and restatement of, the 1996 ESPP and the 2006 ESPP, which included the increase of 8.0 million additional shares to be issued under these ESPP plans. On December 9, 2013, the Company filed a registration statement to register the 8.0 million additional shares under the 1996 ESPP and 2006 ESPP. Shares issued to employees as a result of purchases or exercises under these plans are generally issued from shares held in treasury. 181 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense and related tax benefit recognized for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Cost of goods sold $ 2,518 $ 2,499 $ 3,620 Research and development 4,546 7,532 7,187 Marketing and selling 8,298 7,825 12,716 General and administrative 10,184 7,342 8,006 Total share-based compensation expense 25,546 25,198 31,529 Income tax benefit (4,902 ) (5,356 ) (6,294 ) Total share-based compensation expense, net of income tax $ 20,644 $ 19,842 $ 25,235 During the years ended March 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, the Company capitalized $0.4 million, $0.4 million and $0.7 million, respectively, of stock-based compensation expenses as inventory. The following table summarizes total unamortized share-based compensation expense and the remaining months over which such expense is expected to be recognized, on a weighted-average basis by type of grant (in thousands, except number of months): Stock options and ESPP $ 980 17 Premium-priced stock options 789 19 Market-based stock options 1,304 9 Time-based RSUs 37,379 22 Market-based RSUs 4,901 27 $ 45,353 Under the 1996 ESPP and 2006 ESPP plans, eligible employees may purchase shares at the lower of 85% of the fair market value at the beginning or the end of each six-month offering period. Subject to continued participation in these plans, purchase agreements are automatically executed at the end of each offering period. An aggregate of 29,000,000 shares was reserved for issuance under the 1996 and 2006 ESPP plans. As of March 31, 2014, a total of 8,266,700 shares were available for issuance under these plans. The 2006 Plan provides for the grant to eligible employees and non-employee directors of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and RSUs. Awards under the 2006 Plan may be conditioned on continued employment, the passage of time or the satisfaction of performance vesting criteria. The 2006 Stock Plan has an expiration date of June 16, 2016. Stock options granted under the 2006 Plan generally vest over three years for non-executive Directors and over four years for employees. All stock options under this plan have terms not exceeding ten years and are issued at exercise prices not less than the fair market value on the date of grant. Premium-priced stock options granted to executives under the 2006 Plan vest only when performance criteria is met as determined by a third party vendor. 182 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) Time-based RSUs granted to employees under the 2006 Plan generally vest in four equal annual installments on the grant date anniversary. Time-based RSUs granted to non-executive board members under the 2006 Plan vest in one annual installment on the grant date anniversary. Market-based options and RSUs granted under the 2006 Plan vest at the end of the performance period upon meeting certain share price performance criteria measured against market conditions. The performance period is four years for market-based options granted in fiscal year 2013. The performance period is three years for market-based RSU grants made in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012. An aggregate of 24,800,000 shares was reserved for issuance under the 2006 Plan. As of March 31, 2014, a total of 9,136,223 shares were available for issuance under this plan. Under the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan, stock options and RSUs may be granted to eligible employees to serve as inducement material to enter into employment with the Company. Awards under the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan may be conditioned on continued employment, the passage of time or the satisfaction of performance vesting criteria, based on individual written employment offer letter. The 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan has an expiration date of March 28, 2022. An aggregate of 1,800,000 shares was reserved for issuance under the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan. As of March 31, 2014, no shares were available for issuance under this plan. A summary of the Company's stock option activity for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 is as follows (in thousands, except per share data; exercise prices are weighted averages): Outstanding, beginning of year 13,684 $ 16 13,034 $ 19 16,312 $ 19 Granted $ 3,718 $ 8 $ Exercised (551 ) $ 9 (389 ) $ 6 (316 ) $ 8 Cancelled or expired (3,317 ) $ 15 (2,679 ) $ 20 (2,962 ) $ 22 Outstanding, end of year 9,816 $ 16 13,684 $ 16 13,034 $ 19 Exercisable, end of year 7,056 $ 19 9,355 $ 19 10,867 $ 20 The total pretax intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $2.0 million, $1.1 million and $0.8 million, respectively, and the tax benefit realized for the tax deduction from options exercised during those periods was $0.5 million, $0.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The total fair value of options exercisable as of March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $42.8 million, $60.5 million and $76.0 million, respectively. The fair value of employee stock options granted and shares purchased under the Company's employee purchase plans was estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing valuation model applying the following assumptions and values. 183 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) Dividend yield 0.43 % 0 % 0 % n/a 0 % n/a n/a 0 % n/a n/a 0 % n/a Risk-free interest rate 0.07 % 0.09 % 0.13 % n/a 1.20 % n/a n/a 2.00 % n/a n/a 1.93 % n/a Expected volatility 36 % 47 % 52 % n/a 46 % n/a n/a 46 % n/a n/a 44 % n/a Expected life (years) 0.5 0.5 0.5 n/a 6.0 n/a n/a 7.0 n/a n/a 6.0 n/a Weighted average fair value $ 2.46 $ 2.14 $ 2.96 n/a $ 3.64 n/a n/a $ 2.52 n/a n/a $ 2.58 n/a The dividend yield assumption is based on the Company's history and future expectations of dividend payouts. In September 2012, the Company's shareholders approved, and the Company paid, a one-time cash dividend of CHF 125.7 million ($133.5 million in U.S. Dollars), out of retained earnings to Logitech's existing shareholders. The dividend qualified as a distribution of qualifying additional paid-in-capital. In May 2013, the Company announced its plan to issue an annual dividend on a recurring basis. In September 2013, the Company's shareholders approved, and the Company paid, a cash dividend of CHF 33.7 million ($36.1 million in U.S. dollars) to the existing shareholders. The unvested or unexercised options and RSUs are not eligible for these dividends. The expected option life represents the weighted-average period the stock options or purchase offerings are expected to remain outstanding. The expected life is based on historical settlement rates, which the Company believes are most representative of future exercise and post-vesting termination behaviors. Expected share price volatility is based on historical volatility using the Company's daily closing prices over the term of past options or purchase offerings. The Company considers the historical price volatility of its shares as most representative of future volatility. The risk-free interest rate assumptions are based upon the implied yield of U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues appropriate for the term of the Company's stock options or purchase offerings. The Company estimates option forfeitures at the time of grant and revises those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The Company uses historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and records share-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. As of March 31, 2014, the exercise price of outstanding options ranged from $1 to $35 per option, the weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options was 4.9 years, and the weighted average remaining contractual life of exercisable options was 3.6 years. As of March 31, 2014, the aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding options was $20.1 million and the aggregate intrinsic value of exercisable options was $6.5 million. The total number of fully vested in-the-money options exercisable as of March 31, 2014 was 2,500,762 and 2,756,753 options were unvested, of which 2,370,808 are expected to vest, based on an estimated forfeiture rate of 14%. 184 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) A summary of the Company's time- and market-based RSU activity for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 is as follows (in thousands, except per share values; grant-date fair values are weighted averages): Outstanding, beginning of year 4,642 $ 10 4,125 $ 13 2,370 $ 21 Grantedtime-based 3,104 $ 11 2,219 $ 7 2,496 $ 9 Grantedmarket-based 1,060 $ 8 101 $ 6 516 $ 11 Vested (1,560 ) $ 9 (1,097 ) $ 11 (399 ) $ 19 Cancelled or expired (1,158 ) $ 15 (706 ) $ 13 (858 ) $ 19 Outstanding, end of year 6,088 $ 10 4,642 $ 10 4,125 $ 13 The total pretax intrinsic value of RSUs that vested during the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $ 17.8 million, $8.3 million and $3.8 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized for the tax deduction from RSUs that vested during the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $4.7 million, $1.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The Company determines the fair value of the time-based RSUs based on the market price on the date of grant. The fair value of the market-based RSUs is estimated using the Monte-Carlo simulation model applying the following assumptions: Dividend yield 0.75 % 0 % 0 % Risk-free interest rate 1.09 % 0.31 % 0.99 % Expected volatility 46 % 47 % 49 % Expected life (years) 2.9 3.0 3.0 The dividend yield assumption is based on the Company's history and future expectations of dividend payouts. The expected life of the market-based RSUs is the service period at the end of which the RSUs will vest if the market conditions are satisfied. The volatility assumption is based on the actual volatility of Logitech's daily closing share price over a look-back period equal to the years of expected life. The risk free interest rate is derived from the yield on U.S. Treasury Bonds for a term of the same number of years as the expected life. As of March 31, 2014, the grant date fair values of outstanding RSUs ranged from $6 to $20 per RSU. 185 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) In April 2012, Logitech's Board of Directors approved the 2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan. Under this plan, Logitech's newly hired President, Bracken P. Darrell, who became President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2013, was granted the following equity incentive awards with a ten year term (in thousands, except per share exercise price and vesting period): Stock options 500 $ 8 $ 1,820 4.0 Time based RSUs 100 803 4.0 Premium-priced stock options(2): First tranche 400 14 1,100 2.5 Second tranche 400 16 1,024 3.0 Third tranche 400 20 896 3.9 (1) Vesting period for premium-priced stock options represents estimated requisite service period. (2) Each grant of premium-priced stock options will vest in full if and only when Logitech's average closing share price, over a consecutive ninety-day trading period, meets or exceeds the exercise price of the grant. Defined Contribution Plans Certain of the Company's subsidiaries have defined contribution employee benefit plans covering all or a portion of their employees. Contributions to these plans are discretionary for certain plans and are based on specified or statutory requirements for others. The charges to expense for these plans for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, were $6.6 million, $6.9 million and $11.6 million, respectively. Defined Benefit Plans Certain of the Company's subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans or non-retirement post-employment benefits covering substantially all of their employees. Benefits are provided based on employees' years of service and earnings, or in accordance with applicable employee benefit regulations. The Company's practice is to fund amounts sufficient to meet the requirements set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax regulations. During fiscal year 2013, the Company's Swiss defined benefit pension plan was subject to re-measurement due to the number of plan participants affected by the restructurings implemented during fiscal year 2013, as described in Note 15, Restructuring . The re-measurement resulted in the realization of $2.2 million in previously unrecognized losses which resided within accumulated other comprehensive loss and which the Company entirely recognized during fiscal year 2013. The Company's restructuring plan implemented during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013 resulted in an additional $1.2 million in previously unrecognized losses related to affected plan participants which resided within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and which the Company entirely recognized during the quarter ended March 31, 2013. The Company recognizes the underfunded or overfunded status of defined benefit pension plans and non-retirement post-employment benefit obligations as an asset or liability in its consolidated balance sheets, and recognizes changes in the funded status of defined benefit pension plans in the year in which 186 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) the changes occur through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which is a component of shareholders' equity. Each plan's assets and benefit obligations are measured as of March 31 each year. The net periodic benefit cost of the defined benefit pension plans and the non-retirement post-employment benefit obligations for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in thousands): Service costs $ 8,591 $ 7,842 $ 6,856 Interest costs 1,794 1,852 2,263 Expected return on plan assets (1,727 ) (1,710 ) (1,969 ) Amortization of net transition obligation 4 5 5 Net period service costs recognized 210 712 156 Net actuarial loss recognized 592 846 205 Settlement costs 769 2,658 $ 10,233 $ 12,205 $ 7,516 The changes in projected benefit obligations for fiscal years 2014 and 2013 were as follows (in thousands): Projected benefit obligation, beginning of year $ 90,234 $ 97,459 Service costs 8,591 7,842 Interest costs 1,794 1,852 Plan participant contributions 2,726 2,814 Actuarial (gains) losses (2,942 ) 7,146 Benefits paid (1,841 ) (2,285 ) Plan amendments (1,456 ) Settlement and curtailment (1,261 ) (18,758 ) Administrative expense paid (174 ) (164 ) Foreign currency exchange rate changes 5,256 (4,216 ) Projected benefit obligation, end of year $ 102,383 $ 90,234 The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 was $83.2 million and $69.9 million. 187 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) The following table presents the changes in the fair value of defined benefit pension plan assets for fiscal years 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year $ 48,689 $ 53,594 Actual return on plan assets 5,334 2,913 Employer contributions 5,390 6,352 Plan participant contributions 2,726 2,814 Benefits paid (1,841 ) (2,285 ) Settlement (500 ) (11,874 ) Administrative expenses paid (174 ) (164 ) Foreign currency exchange rate changes 3,760 (2,661 ) Fair value of plan assets, end of year $ 63,384 $ 48,689 The Company's investment objectives are to ensure that the assets of its defined benefit plans are invested to provide an optimal rate of investment return on the total investment portfolio, consistent with the assumption of a reasonable risk level, and to ensure that pension funds are available to meet the plans' benefit obligations as they become due. The Company believes that a well-diversified investment portfolio will result in the highest attainable investment return with an acceptable level of overall risk. Investment strategies and allocation decisions are also governed by applicable governmental regulatory agencies. The Company's investment strategy with respect to its largest defined benefit plan, which is available only to Swiss employees, is to invest in the following allocation ranges starting from January 2014: 20-55% for equities, 25-60% for bonds, and 0-10% for cash and cash equivalents. The Company also can invest in real estate funds, commodity funds, and hedge funds depend upon economic conditions. Prior to January 2014, the Company followed the following allocation ranges: 28-43% for equities, 33-63% for Swiss bonds, 5-15% for foreign bonds, 5-15% for hedge and investment funds, and 0-20% for cash and cash equivalents. The Company's other defined benefit plans, which comprise 6.2% of total defined benefit plan assets as of March 31, 2014, have similar investment and allocation strategies. 188 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) The following tables present the fair value of the defined benefit pension plan assets by major categories and by levels within the fair value hierarchy as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Cash $ 10,339 $ $ $ 10,339 $ 7,143 $ $ $ 7,143 Equity securities 17,324 17,324 14,802 14,802 Debt securities 20,300 20,300 20,663 20,663 Swiss real estate funds 8,970 8,970 3,968 3,968 Hedge funds 3,611 3,611 1,062 1,062 Commodity funds 693 693 Insurance contracts 2,598 2,598 Other 43 199 242 106 252 358 $ 56,976 $ 3,810 $ 2,598 $ 63,384 $ 47,375 $ 1,314 $ $ 48,689 The funded status of the defined benefit pension plans is the fair value of plan assets less benefit obligations. The funded status of the non-retirement post-employment benefits is the fair value of the benefit obligations. Projected benefit obligations exceeded plan assets for all plans by $39.0 million and $41.5 million as of March 31, 2014 and 2013. Amounts recognized on the balance sheet for the plans were as follows (in thousands): Current assets $ $ Current liabilities (1,100 ) (994 ) Non-current liabilities (37,899 ) (40,551 ) Net liabilities $ (38,999 ) $ (41,545 ) Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to defined benefit pension plans were as follows (in thousands): Net prior service costs $ (2,149 ) $ (2,307 ) $ (1,918 ) Net actuarial loss (12,319 ) (19,850 ) (28,172 ) Amortization of net transition obligation (12 ) (14 ) (24 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (14,480 ) (22,171 ) (30,114 ) Deferred tax benefit 192 315 752 Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax $ (14,288 ) $ (21,856 ) $ (29,362 ) 189 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) Changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the defined benefit pension plans were as follows (in thousands): Accumulated other comprehensive loss, beginning of year $ (21,856 ) $ (29,362 ) $ (18,073 ) Transition obligation recognized 4 5 Prior service cost (credit) recognized 210 153 (15 ) Actuarial loss recognized 1,056 1,199 275 Curtailment loss 761 2,600 Settlement gain recognized 747 2,276 Gain (loss) 6,087 1,351 (11,808 ) Prior service credit (944 ) Deferred tax benefit (expense) (123 ) (435 ) 170 Foreign currency exchange rate changes (1,174 ) 1,301 89 Accumulated other comprehensive loss, end of year $ (14,288 ) $ (21,856 ) $ (29,362 ) The following table presents the amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of March 31, 2014, which are expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost in fiscal year 2015 (in thousands): Amortization of net transition obligation $ 4 Amortization of net prior service costs 212 Amortization of net actuarial loss 368 $ 584 The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. The actuarial assumptions for the pension plans for fiscal years 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Discount rate 1.50%-9.25% 1.50%-8.00% 1.50%-8.00% 1.75%-8.50% Estimated rate of compensation increase 3.00%-8.00% 3.00%-4.00% 3.00%-10.00% 3.00%-10.00% Expected average rate of return on plan assets 1.00%-3.50% 0.75%-3.50% 1.00%-3.50% 0.75%-3.75% The discount rate is estimated based on corporate bond yields or securities of similar quality in the respective country, with a duration approximating the period over which the benefit obligations are expected to be paid. The Company bases the compensation increase assumptions on historical experience and future expectations. The expected average rate of return for the Company's defined benefit pension 190 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 5Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) plans represents the average rate of return expected to be earned on plan assets over the period that the benefit obligations are expected to be paid, based on government bond notes in the respective country, adjusted for corporate risk premiums as appropriate. The following table reflects the benefit payments that the Company expects the plans to pay in the periods noted (in thousands): 2015 $ 4,573 2016 5,144 2017 4,988 2018 5,481 2019 5,615 Thereafter 29,018 $ 54,819 The Company expects to contribute $5.3 million to its defined benefit pension plans during fiscal year 2015. Deferred Compensation Plan One of the Company's subsidiaries offers a deferred compensation plan that permits eligible employees to make 100% vested salary and incentive compensation deferrals within established limits. The Company does not make contributions to the plan. The fair value of the deferred compensation plan's assets is included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The marketable securities are classified as trading investments and were recorded at a fair value of $16.6 million and $15.6 million as of March 31, 2014 and 2013, based on quoted market prices. The Company also had $16.6 million and $15.6 million deferred compensation liability as of March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Earnings, gains and losses on trading investments are included in other income (expense), net and corresponding changes in deferred compensation liability are included in operating expenses and cost of goods sold. Note 6Interest and Other Income (Expense), net Interest income (expense), net was comprised of the following (in thousands): Interest income $ 1,831 $ 2,215 $ 3,121 Interest expense (2,228 ) (1,308 ) (447 ) Interest income (expense), net $ (397 ) $ 907 $ 2,674 191 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 6Interest and Other Income (Expense), net (Continued) Other income (expense), net was comprised of the following (in thousands): Investment income related to deferred compensation plan $ 1,487 $ 933 $ 227 Gain on sale of securities 831 6,109 Impairment of investments (624 ) (3,600 ) Foreign currency exchange gain, net 62 104 1,575 Other 1,068 (466 ) (256 ) Other income (expense), net $ 1,993 $ (2,198 ) $ 7,655 Note 7Income Taxes The Company is incorporated in Switzerland but operates in various countries with differing tax laws and rates. Further, a portion of the Company's income (loss) before taxes and the provision for (benefit from) income taxes is generated outside of Switzerland. Income (loss) before income taxes for the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 is summarized as follows (in thousands): Swiss $ 49,503 $ (53,004 ) $ 31,045 Non-Swiss 28,079 (200,324 ) 93,282 Income (loss) before taxes $ 77,582 $ (253,328 ) $ 124,327 (1) During fiscal year 2014, the Company determined that Swiss loss before taxes reported previously as ($121.8) million and ($65.2) million in fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively, was overstated by $71.0 million in 2013 and $64.5 million in 2012 and Non-Swiss income (loss) before taxes previously reported as ($129.3) million and $157.8 million for 2013 and 2012 was understated by $71.0 million in 2013 and overstated by $64.5 million in 2012. The overstatement and understatement is due to the elimination of Swiss loss related to stock equity plans were erroneously presented as Non-Swiss in each year. In addition, Swiss loss before taxes increased by ($2.2) million and decreased by $31.7 million in fiscal year 2013 and 2012, respectively to reflect adjustments from the revision and restatement of the respective financial statements. 192 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 7Income Taxes (Continued) The provision for (benefit from) income taxes is summarized as follows (in thousands): Current: Swiss $ 127 $ 672 $ 401 Non-Swiss 8,580 (23,146 ) 24,312 Deferred: Swiss (254 ) Non-Swiss (5,429 ) (3,336 ) (4,369 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 3,278 $ (25,810 ) $ 20,090 The difference between the provision for (benefit from) income taxes and the expected tax provision (benefit) at the statutory income tax rate of 8.5% is reconciled below (in thousands): Expected tax provision (benefit) at statutory income tax rates $ 6,594 $ (21,533 ) $ 10,568 Income taxes at different rates 497 5,714 2,875 Research and development tax credits (1,393 ) (3,302 ) (1,666 ) Foreign tax credits (1,535 ) Stock-based compensation 1,608 1,643 2,696 Valuation allowance 182 3,809 (104 ) Impairment 18,419 Restructuring charges 1,174 4,336 Tax reserves (releases), net (4,660 ) 1,935 6,555 Audit settlement (400 ) (35,608 ) Other, net (324 ) 312 (834 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 3,278 $ (25,810 ) $ 20,090 The federal research tax credit in the United States has expired as of December 31, 2013. The income tax expense for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 reflected a $0.8 million tax benefit for research tax credits. 193 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 7Income Taxes (Continued) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): Deferred tax assets: Net operating loss carryforwards $ 9,421 $ 13,279 Tax credit carryforwards 13,241 13,746 Accruals 48,153 44,700 Depreciation and amortization 4,781 4,453 Share-based compensation 15,304 17,147 Gross deferred tax assets 90,900 93,325 Valuation allowance (4,872 ) (6,014 ) Gross deferred tax assets after valuation allowance 86,028 87,311 Deferred tax liabilities: Acquired intangible assets and other (8,436 ) (11,951 ) Gross deferred tax liabilities (8,436 ) (11,951 ) Deferred tax assets, net $ 77,592 $ 75,360 (1) Deferred tax assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2013 were adjusted to reflect the tax impact from the revision of the financial statement. In addition, during fiscal year 2014, the Company determined that a deferred tax liability related to U.S. flow-through investment of $0.9 million was erroneously presented as a deferred tax asset associated with "Accruals" as of March 31, 2013. The amount was properly reclassed from "Accruals" to "Acquired intangible assets and others" above. The reclassification adjustment has no impact in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheet and Statement of Cash Flows. Management regularly assesses the ability to realize deferred tax assets recorded in the Company's entities based upon the weight of available evidence, including such factors as recent earnings history and expected future taxable income. In the event that the Company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the Company will adjust its valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The Company had a valuation allowance of $4.9 million at March 31, 2014, decreased from $6.0 million at March 31, 2013 primarily due to decrease in valuation allowance of $1.3 million for foreign tax credit carryforwards in the United States. The Company elected to deduct foreign taxes in lieu of tax credits in its fiscal year 2013 federal tax return in the United States. The Company had a valuation allowance of $2.6 million as of March 31, 2014 against deferred tax assets in the state of California of the United States. The remaining valuation allowance primarily represents $1.7 million for capital loss carryforwards in the United States and $0.6 million for various tax credit carryforwards. The Company determined that it is more likely than not that the Company would not generate sufficient taxable income in the future to utilize such deferred tax assets. 194 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 7Income Taxes (Continued) Deferred tax assets relating to tax benefits of employee stock grants have been reduced to reflect settlement activity in fiscal years 2014 and 2013. Settlement activity of grants in fiscal years 2014 and 2013 resulted in a "shortfall" in which tax deductions were less than previously recorded share-based compensation expense. The Company recorded a shortfall to equity of $2.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively, in fiscal years 2014 and 2013. As of March 31, 2014, the Company had foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes of $196.0 million and $35.7 million, respectively, of which $136.2 million of the net operating loss carryforwards and $22.7 million of the tax credit carryforwards, if realized, will be credited to equity since they have not met the applicable realization criteria. Unused net operating loss carryforwards will expire at various dates in fiscal years 2016 to 2034. Certain net operating loss carryforwards in the United States relate to acquisitions and, as a result, are limited in the amount that can be utilized in any one year. The tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal year 2019. As of March 31, 2014, the Company had capital loss carryforwards of $4.6 million. The loss will begin to expire in fiscal year 2016. Swiss income taxes and non-Swiss withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of earnings or for other temporary differences related to investments in non-Swiss subsidiaries have not been provided for, as the Company intends to reinvest the earnings of such subsidiaries indefinitely or the Company has concluded that no additional tax liability would arise on the distribution of such earnings. If these earnings were distributed to Switzerland in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant non-Swiss subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, the Company may be subject to additional Swiss income taxes and non-Swiss withholding taxes. As of March 31, 2014, the cumulative amount of unremitted earnings of non-Swiss subsidiaries was $157.4 million. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable. The Company follows a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As of March 31, 2014 and March 31, 2013, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertain tax positions was $91.0 million and $95.4 million, respectively, of which $86.1 million and $90.3 million would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized, respectively. As of March 31, 2014, the Company had $93.1 million in non-current income taxes payable and $0.3 million in current income taxes payable, including interest and penalties, related to our income tax liability for uncertain tax positions. As of March 31, 2013, the Company had $98.8 million in non-current income taxes payable. 195 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 7Income Taxes (Continued) The aggregate changes in gross unrecognized tax benefits in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): March 31, 2011 (As Restated) $ 130,498 Lapse of statute of limitations (6,760 ) Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during prior years (1,200 ) Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during the year 14,350 March 31, 2012 (As Restated) $ 136,888 Lapse of statute of limitations (6,490 ) Settlements with tax authorities (42,770 ) Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during prior years (1,500 ) Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during the year 9,570 March 31, 2013 (As Revised) $ 95,698 Lapse of statute of limitations (12,514 ) Settlements with tax authorities (100 ) Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during prior years (778 ) Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during the year 8,740 March 31, 2014 $ 91,046 The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions in income tax expense. The Company recognized $1.1 million, $1.0 million and $1.2 million in interest and penalties in income tax expense during fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company had $5.6 million, $6.6 million and $7.5 million of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions, respectively. The Company files Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, the Company is generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to fiscal year 2001. The Company is under examination and has received assessment notices in other tax jurisdictions. At this time, the Company is not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on its income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on its results of operations. Although the Company has adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. During fiscal year 2015, the Company will continue to review its tax positions and provide for or reverse unrecognized tax benefits as issues arise. During the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits could increase or decrease significantly due to changes in tax law in various jurisdictions, new tax audits and changes in the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies. Excluding these factors, uncertain tax positions may decrease by as much as $16.0 million to $18.3 million primarily from the lapse of the statutes of limitations in various jurisdictions during the next 12 months. 196 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 8Balance Sheet Components The following table presents the components of certain balance sheet asset amounts as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Accounts receivable: Accounts receivable $ 338,194 $ 325,870 Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,712 ) (2,153 ) Allowance for sales returns (19,472 ) (21,883 ) Allowance for cooperative marketing arrangements (24,135 ) (24,160 ) Allowance for customer incentive programs (41,400 ) (42,857 ) Allowance for pricing programs (69,446 ) (55,858 ) $ 182,029 $ 178,959 Inventories: Raw materials $ 24,031 $ 37,504 Work-in-process 42 41 Finished goods 198,329 225,099 $ 222,402 $ 262,644 Other current assets: Income tax and value-added tax receivables $ 18,252 $ 20,073 Deferred tax assets 27,013 25,004 Prepaid expenses and other assets 13,892 15,300 $ 59,157 $ 60,377 Property, plant and equipment, net: Plant, buildings and improvements $ 69,897 $ 70,009 Equipment 134,975 133,201 Computer equipment 40,610 52,881 Software 81,179 81,320 326,661 337,411 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization (256,424 ) (255,564 ) 70,237 81,847 Construction-in-process 15,362 9,047 Land 2,792 2,827 $ 88,391 $ 93,721 Other assets: Deferred tax assets $ 52,883 $ 52,404 Trading investments 16,611 15,599 Other assets 4,966 6,464 $ 74,460 $ 74,467 197 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 8Balance Sheet Components (Continued) The following table presents the components of certain balance sheet liability amounts as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Accrued and other current liabilities: Accrued personnel expenses $ 55,165 $ 39,631 Accrued marketing expenses 12,844 11,005 Indirect customer incentive programs 31,737 29,464 Accrued restructuring 2,121 13,458 Deferred revenue 22,529 22,698 Accrued freight and duty 6,276 5,882 Value-added taxes payable 9,354 8,544 Accrued royalties 2,653 3,358 Warranty accrual 13,905 12,782 Employee benefit plan obligation 1,100 994 Income taxes payable 7,701 5,032 Other liabilities 46,587 40,236 $ 211,972 $ 193,084 Non-current liabilities: Warranty accrual 10,475 8,660 Obligation for deferred compensation 16,611 15,631 Long term restructuring 5,440 Employee benefit plan obligation 37,899 40,551 Deferred rent 15,555 22,315 Deferred tax liability 2,304 2,048 Long term deferred revenue 9,350 8,889 Other liabilities 1,715 1,768 $ 99,349 $ 99,862 During the fiscal year 2013, the Company made a strategic decision to divest its Remotes product category and its digital video security product line, included within its Video product category. As a result, assets and liabilities of the Remotes product category and the digital video security product line were classified as held for sale as of March 31, 2013. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, the Company updated its strategic direction and decided to retain its Remotes product category. As a result, the Remotes assets and liabilities held for sale was reclassified from held for sale as of March 31, 2014. 198 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 8Balance Sheet Components (Continued) The following table presents the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 (in thousands): Beginning of the period $ 2,153 $ 2,472 $ 4,086 Expense (reversal), net 656 (107 ) (592 ) Write-offs, net of recoveries (1,097 ) (212 ) (1,022 ) End of the period $ 1,712 $ 2,153 $ 2,472 Note 9Financial Instruments Fair Value Measurements The Company considers fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Company utilizes the following three-level fair value hierarchy to establish the priorities of the inputs used to measure fair value: Level 1Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2Observable inputs other than quoted market prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. This includes certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. 199 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 9Financial Instruments (Continued) The following table presents the Company's financial assets and liabilities, that were accounted for at fair value, excluding assets related to the Company's defined benefit pension plans, classified by the level within the fair value hierarchy (in thousands): Cash equivalents: Cash equivalents 200,641 119,073 $ 200,641 $ $ 119,073 $ Trading investments for deferred compensation plan: Money market funds $ 3,139 $ $ 4,220 $ Mutual funds 13,472 11,379 $ 16,611 $ $ 15,599 $ Foreign exchange derivative assets $ $ 155 $ $ 1,197 Foreign exchange derivative liabilities $ $ 701 $ $ 707 The following table presents the changes in the Company's Level 3 financial assets during fiscal years 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Beginning of the period $ 429 $ 1,695 Sale of securities (917 ) (6,550 ) Gain on sale of securities 831 6,041 Reversal of unrealized gain (343 ) (757 ) End of the period $ $ 429 There were no significant level 3 financial assets held during fiscal year 2014 by the Company. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents consist of bank demand deposits and time deposits. The time deposits have original maturities of three months or less. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Investment Securities The Company's investment securities portfolio consists of marketable securities (money market and mutual funds) related to a deferred compensation plan at March 31, 2014 and 2013. 200 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 9Financial Instruments (Continued) The marketable securities related to the deferred compensation plan are classified as non-current other assets. Since participants in the deferred compensation plan may select the mutual funds in which their compensation deferrals are invested within the confines of the Rabbi Trust which holds the marketable securities, the Company has designated these marketable securities as trading investments, although there is no intent to actively buy and sell securities within the objective of generating profits on short-term differences in market prices. Management has classified the investments as non-current assets because final sale of the investments or realization of proceeds by plan participants is not expected within the Company's normal operating cycle of one year. The marketable securities are recorded at a fair value of $16.6 million and $15.6 million as of March 31, 2014 and 2013, based on quoted market prices. Quoted market prices are observable inputs that are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy. Earnings, gains and losses on trading investments are included in other income (expense), net. Unrealized trading gains of $0.4 million, $0.5 million and $0.1 million are included in other income (expense), net for the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and relate to trading securities held as of March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. Derivative Financial Instruments : Under the agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company's derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company does not net settle transactions with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. In accordance with ASU 2011-11 , the Company presents its derivative instruments at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2014 and 2013. The following table presents the fair values of the Company's derivative instruments and their locations on its consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Designed as hedging instruments: Cash flow hedges $ 4 $ 1,165 $ 243 $ Not designed as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange forward contract 23 96 270 Foreign exchange swap contract 128 32 362 437 151 32 458 707 $ 155 $ 1,197 $ 701 $ 707 201 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 9Financial Instruments (Continued) The following table presents the amounts of gains and losses on the Company's derivative instruments for fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012 and their locations on its consolidated statements of operations (in thousands): Designed as hedging instruments: Cash flow hedges $ (1,025 ) $ 566 $ 2,916 $ 2,472 $ 1,756 $ (421 ) $ (126 ) $ 275 $ (198 ) Not designed as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange forward contract (464 ) (848 ) (350 ) Foreign exchange swap contract 1,288 1,176 (1,884 ) 824 328 (2,234 ) $ (1,025 ) $ 566 $ 2,916 $ 2,472 $ 1,756 $ (421 ) $ 698 $ 603 $ (2,432 ) Cash Flow Hedges The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge against exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to its subsidiaries' forecasted inventory purchases. The Company has one entity with a Euro functional currency that purchases inventory in U.S. Dollars. The primary risk managed by using derivative instruments is the foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company has designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. These hedging contracts mature within four months, and are denominated in the same currency as the underlying transactions. Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold. The Company assesses the effectiveness of the hedges by comparing changes in the spot rate of the currency underlying the forward contract with changes in the spot rate of the currency in which the forecasted transaction will be consummated. If the underlying transaction being hedged fails to occur or if a portion of the hedge does not generate offsetting changes in the foreign currency exposure of forecasted inventory purchases, the Company immediately recognizes the gain or loss on the associated financial instrument in other income (expense), net. Such gains and losses were not material during fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012. Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. As of March 31, 2014 and 2013, the notional amounts of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $51.8 million (37.6 million), and $38.5 million (30.1 million), respectively. Foreign Exchange Forward and Swap Contracts The Company also enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables or payables. These forward contracts generally mature within three months. The Company may also enter into foreign exchange swap contracts to economically extend the terms of its foreign exchange forward contracts. The primary risk managed by using forward and swap contracts is the foreign currency exchange rate risk. The gains or losses on foreign 202 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 9Financial Instruments (Continued) exchange forward contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net based on the changes in fair value. The notional amounts of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 relating to foreign currency receivables or payables were $23.2 million and $14.2 million, respectively. Open forward contracts as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 consisted of contracts in U.S. Dollars to purchase Taiwanese Dollars and contracts in Euros to sell British Pounds at future dates at pre-determined exchange rates. The notional amounts of foreign exchange swap contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 were $30.5 million and $19.6 million, respectively. Swap contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2014 and 2013 consisted of contracts in Mexican Pesos, Japanese Yen and Australian Dollars. The fair value of all foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange swap contracts is determined based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward rates. Cash flows from these contracts are classified as operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Note 10Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Annual Goodwill Impairment Testing In accordance with ASC Topic 350-10 ("ASC 350-10") as it relates to Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, the Company conducts a goodwill impairment analysis annually at December 31 and as necessary if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the Company's reporting units may be less than its carrying amount. FASB ASC 350-20 permits an entity to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount before applying the two-step goodwill impairment test. If an entity concludes that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it would not be required to perform the two-step impairment test for that reporting unit. Peripherals The Company performed its annual impairment analysis of the goodwill for its peripherals reporting unit as of December 31, 2013 by performing a qualitative assessment and concluded that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of its peripherals reporting units was less than its carrying amount. In assessing the qualitative factors, the Company considered the impact of these key factors: change in industry and competitive environment, growth in market capitalization of $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2013 from $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2012, and forecasted budgeted-to-actual revenue performance for fiscal year 2014. The peripherals reporting unit had an improvement in operating income from $35 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 to $117 million for nine months ended December 31, 2013. Video Conferencing In the quarter ended September 30, 2013, the Company implemented a restructuring plan ("this Plan") associated with its video conferencing reporting unit to simplify its organization, better align costs with its current business and free up resources to pursue growth opportunities. This Plan resulted in the reduction of personnel, lease exit costs and the write-off of discontinued video conferencing products. In addition, actual performance was significantly less than projected results for the periods since the prior 203 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 10Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (Continued) annual goodwill impairment assessment performed at December 31, 2012, due to the combination of a changing industry landscape caused by a shift to less expensive cloud-based video conferencing solutions, an evolving Lifesize product line and challenges in execution. These factors resulted in the Company concluding that it was more likely than not that the fair value of its video conferencing reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. Therefore, the Company performed an interim Step 1 assessment of its video conferencing reporting unit at September 30, 2013. Step 1 assessment performed during the quarter ended September 30, 2013 involved measuring the recoverability of goodwill by comparing the video conferencing reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair value was estimated using both an income approach employing a discounted cash flow model and a market approach. The market approach model was based on applying certain revenue multiples of comparable companies to the respective revenue and earnings metrics of the reporting unit. Step 1 assessment resulted in the Company determining that the video conferencing reporting unit passed Step 1 test because the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 23%, thus not requiring a Step 2 assessment of this reporting unit. At December 31, 2013, the Company completed its annual impairment analysis for the goodwill of the video conferencing reporting unit by performing Step 1 assessment as the qualitative factors that lead to the interim assessment had not significantly improved. Key assumptions used in this Step 1 income approach analysis included the appropriate discount rates, compound annual growth rate ("CAGR") during the forecast period, and long-term growth rates for purposes of determining a terminal value at the end of the discrete forecast period. Sensitivity assessment of key assumptions for the video conferencing reporting unit Step 1 test is presented below: CAGR assumption was 7.0% through fiscal year 2021, with a forecast decline in the remainder of fiscal year 2014, and higher growth rates from fiscal years 2015 through 2019, reducing to a growth rate of 4% in fiscal year 2021. The forecasted growth contrasts with the recent performance of the video conferencing reporting unit, when the Company experienced a decline in revenue (see Note 14 for further details). A hypothetical decrease to 1.4% in the CAGR rate, holding all other assumptions constant, would decrease the fair value of the video conferencing reporting unit below its carrying value and hence would result in the reporting unit failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. Discount rate assumption was 15%. A hypothetical increase to 18.9% in the discount rate, holding all other assumptions constant, would result in the reporting unit failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. Terminal growth rate assumption was 4%. A hypothetical decrease to 0% in the terminal growth rate assumption, holding all other assumptions constant, would result in the reporting unit passing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. The assumptions used also included a reduction in future operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, driven by increases in forecast revenue as described above, combined with reduced operating expenses related to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013 and second quarter of fiscal year 2014 restructuring activities. The annual Step 1 assessment resulted in the Company determining that the video conferencing reporting unit passed Step 1 test because the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 30%, thus not requiring Step 2 assessment of this reporting unit. This result presents a 204 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 10Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (Continued) future video conferencing reporting unit goodwill impairment risk to the Company since the margin it cleared the current Step 1 assessment was not significant. As a result of the Company's annual goodwill impairment assessments, there was no impairment of goodwill during the three months ended December 31, 2013. There have been no events or circumstances during the three months ended March 31, 2014 that have required the Company to perform an interim assessment of goodwill. During fiscal year 2013, the Company's video conferencing reporting unit failed Step 1 test because the estimated fair value was less than its carrying value, thus requiring Step 2 assessment of this reporting unit. This impairment primarily resulted from a decrease in the expected CAGR during the assessment forecast period based on greater evidence of the overall enterprise video conferencing industry experiencing a slowdown, combined with lower demand related to new product launches, increased competition during fiscal year 2013 and other market data. These factors had an adverse effect on the Company's video conferencing operating results and future outlook. During fiscal year 2013, the Company recorded goodwill impairment and other charges of $214.5 million related to its video conferencing reporting unit. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and future market conditions, among others. It is reasonably possible that changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates that the Company used in assessing the fair value of the video conferencing reporting unit result in the goodwill to become impaired. A goodwill impairment charge would have the effect of decreasing the Company's earnings or increasing its losses in such period. If the Company is required to take a substantial impairment charge, its operating results would be materially and adversely affected in such period. The following table summarizes the activity in the Company's goodwill balance during fiscal years 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Beginning of the period $ 216,744 $ 124,613 $ 341,357 $ 220,860 $ 339,663 $ 560,523 Additions 202 202 Foreign currency impact 982 982 (550 ) (550 ) Impairments (214,500 ) (214,500 ) Reclassified from (to) assets held for sale(1) 2,469 2,469 (4,116 ) (4,116 ) End of the period $ 219,415 $ 125,595 $ 345,010 $ 216,744 $ 124,613 $ 341,357 (1) Represents allocated goodwill related to the Company's RetailDigital Video Security product line and RetailRemotes product category which was classified as assets held for sale as of March 31, 2013. The allocated goodwill related to the Digital Video Security product line was fully impaired as of March 31, 2013. The allocated goodwill related to the Remotes product category was reclassified from assets held for sale as of March 31, 2014, as the Company updated its strategic plan and decided to retain its Remotes product category. 205 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 10Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (Continued) The Company's acquired other intangible assets subject to amortization were as follows (in thousands): Trademark and tradenames $ 13,091 $ (11,949 ) $ 1,142 $ 13,977 $ (10,693 ) $ 3,284 Technology(1) 83,080 (78,257 ) 4,823 73,249 (61,560 ) 11,689 Customer contracts 38,851 (34,287 ) 4,564 39,068 (28,017 ) 11,051 $ 135,022 $ (124,493 ) $ 10,529 $ 126,294 $ (100,270 ) $ 26,024 (1) As of March 31, 2013, the Company had $1.7 million of intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $19.3 million and impairment charges of $0.5 million, related to Digital Video Security and Remotes product categories classified as held for sale, which are not included in the table above. As of March 31, 2014, the Remotes product category was reclassified from held for sale as the Company updated its strategic plan and decided to retain the Remotes product category. There were no intangible assets classified as held for sale as of March 31, 2014. (2) During fiscal year 2014, the Company determined that the trademarks and trade names gross and accumulated amortization amounts previously reported for fiscal year 2013 were not properly stated due to the inclusion of $15.9 million of fully amortized intangible assets, which were previously retired by the Company as of March 31, 2013. The table above is revised to reflect the correct amounts. For fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, amortization expense for other intangible assets was $17.8 million, $23.6 million and $27.2 million, respectively. The Company expects that annual amortization expense for the fiscal years ending 2015, 2016 and 2017 will be $8.4 million, $1.9 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Note 11Financing Arrangements In December 2011, the Company entered into a Senior Revolving Credit Facility Agreement ("Credit Facility") with a group of primarily Swiss banks that provided for a revolving multicurrency unsecured credit facility in an amount of up to $250.0 million and subject to certain requirements, permitted the Company to arrange with existing or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $150.0 million in additional commitments, for a total of $400.0 million. The Company also paid a quarterly commitment fee of 40% of the applicable margin on the available commitment. In December 2013, given the significant improvement in our financial performance and outlook, the Company chose to terminate this Credit Facility and wrote-off the amortized loan fees totaling $ 1.0 million. There were no outstanding borrowings at the time of termination. The Company had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $40.0 million as of March 31, 2014. There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which the Company must comply. As of March 31, 2014, the Company had outstanding bank guarantees of $7.1 million under these lines of credit. The Company also had credit lines related to corporate credit cards totaling $6.9 million as of March 31, 2014. There are no financial covenants under these credit lines. 206 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 12Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases The Company leases facilities under operating leases, certain of which require it to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at the Company's option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation. Future minimum annual rentals under non-cancelable operating leases at March 31, 2014 are as follows (in thousands): 2015 $ 17,022 2016 13,950 2017 10,454 2018 8,543 2019 7,172 Thereafter 20,808 $ 77,949 Rent expense for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $14.7 million, $25.3 million and $25.1 million, respectively. In connection with its leased facilities, the Company has recognized a liability for asset retirement obligations for 2014 and 2013 representing the present value of estimated remediation costs to be incurred at lease expiration. The liability and the expense for asset retirement obligations were immaterial for fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012. Product Warranties All of the Company's Peripherals products are covered by warranty to be free from defects in material and workmanship for periods ranging from one year to five years. At the time of sale, the Company accrues a warranty liability for estimated costs to provide products, parts or services to repair or replace products in satisfaction of the warranty obligation. The Company's estimate of costs to fulfill its warranty obligations is based on historical experience and expectations of future conditions. When the Company experiences changes in warranty claim activity or costs associated with fulfilling those claims, the warranty liability is adjusted accordingly. Changes in the Company's warranty liability for fiscal years 2014 and 2013 were as follows (in thousands): Beginning of the period $ 21,442 $ 26,618 Provision 15,817 12,879 Settlements (15,206 ) (15,728 ) Adjustment(1) 2,327 (2,327 ) End of the period $ 24,380 $ 21,442 (1) During fiscal year 2014, the warranty liability allocated to the Company's Remotes product category was reclassified from liabilities held for sale. 207 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 12Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) Deferred Services Revenue The Company's video conferencing reporting unit offers maintenance contracts for sale of the majority of its products which allow for customers to receive service and support in addition to the expiration of the product warranty contractual term. The Company also provides installation services to its customer under contractual arrangements. The Company recognizes these contracts over the life of the service period. Change in the Company's deferred services revenue during fiscal years 2014 and 2013 were as follows (in thousands): Beginning of the period $ 29,327 $ 24,568 Extended warranties issued 33,007 34,069 Amortization (32,174 ) (29,310 ) End of the period $ 30,160 $ 29,327 The cost of providing these services for fiscal years 2014 and 2013 was $7.8 million and $8.5 million, respectively. Purchase Commitments As of March 31, 2014, the Company had the following outstanding purchase commitments: Inventory commitments $ 102,760 Operating expenses 45,969 Capital commitments 12,994 Total purchase commitments $ 161,723 Commitments for inventory purchases are made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers and are expected to be fulfilled by June 30, 2014. Operating expense commitments are for consulting services, marketing arrangements, advertising, outsourced customer services, information technology maintenance and support services, and other services. Fixed purchase commitments for capital expenditures primarily related to commitments for computer hardware and leasehold improvements. Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow the Company the option to reschedule and adjust its requirements based on the business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services. Other Contingencies As previously announced, some of the issues reviewed by the Audit Committee are also the subject of an ongoing formal investigation by the SEC, including the accounting for Revue inventory valuation reserves that resulted in the restatement, revision to the Company's financial statements concerning warranty accruals and amortization of intangible assets presented in our Form 10-K/A, filed on August 7, 2013, and the Company's transactions with a distributor for Fiscal Year 2007 through Fiscal Year 2009. The 208 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 12Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) Company is cooperating with the SEC in its ongoing investigation. The Company has entered into an agreement with the SEC to extend the statute of limitations. The Company cannot predict the outcome of the investigation at this time and any potential fines or penalties, if any, that may arise from the investigation are currently not estimable. Guarantees Logitech International S.A., the parent holding company, has issued several parent guarantees on behalf of its subsidiaries. The maximum potential future payment under the guarantee arrangements is limited to $80.0 million. As of March 31, 2014, there were no purchase obligations outstanding for which the parent holding company was required to guarantee payment. Logitech Europe S.A., a subsidiary of the parent holding company, has guaranteed the purchase obligations of another Logitech subsidiary under a guarantee agreement. This guarantee does not specify a maximum amount. As of March 31, 2014, the amount of purchase obligations outstanding under this guarantee was immaterial. In addition, Logitech Europe S.A. also guaranteed payments of a third-party contract manufacturer's purchase obligations. As of March 31, 2014, the maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.5 million, of which $2.3 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding. Indemnifications The Company indemnifies certain of its suppliers and customers for losses arising from matters such as intellectual property disputes and product safety defects, subject to certain restrictions. The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees. As of March 31, 2014, no amounts have been accrued for these indemnification provisions. The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under its indemnification arrangements. The Company also indemnifies its current and former directors and certain of its current and former officers. Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies. The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not limited, the obligations are conditional in nature and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable. Legal Proceedings From time to time the Company is involved in claims and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. The Company believes that these matters lack merit and intends to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, the Company does not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that the Company's defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against the Company, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other 209 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 12Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) factors. Any failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect the Company's business. Note 13Shareholders' Equity Share Capital The Company's nominal share capital is CHF 43,276,655, consisting of 173,106,620 shares with a par value of CHF 0.25 each, all of which were issued and 10,206,450 which were held in treasury as of March 31, 2014. In September 2008, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to reserve conditional capital of 25,000,000 shares for potential issuance on the exercise of rights granted under the Company's employee equity incentive plans. The shareholders also approved the creation of conditional capital representing the issuance of up to 25,000,000 shares to cover any conversion rights under a future convertible bond issuance. This conditional capital was created in order to provide financing flexibility for future expansion, investments or acquisitions. Shares Outstanding In September 2012, the Company's shareholders approved the cancellation of the 18.5 million shares repurchased under the September 2008 amended share buyback program. These shares were legally cancelled during fiscal year 2013, which decreased the treasury shares outstanding by this amount but also decreased its shares issued and outstanding from 191.6 million to 173.1 million. Dividends Pursuant to Swiss corporate law, Logitech International S.A. may only pay dividends in Swiss francs. The payment of dividends is limited to certain amounts of unappropriated retained earnings (CHF 458.5 million or $518.1 million based on exchange rates at March 31, 2014) and is subject to shareholder approval. In September 2013, Logitech's shareholders approved a cash dividend payment of CHF 33.7 million out of retained earnings to Logitech shareholders. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.21 per share ($0.22 per share in U.S. dollars), totaling $36.1 million in U.S. Dollars in September 2013. In September 2012, the Company's shareholders approved a cash dividend of CHF 125.7 million out of retained earnings to Logitech shareholders. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.79 per share ($0.85 per share in U.S. dollars), totaling $133.5 million in U.S. dollars in September 2012. This dividend qualified as a distribution of qualifying additional paid-in-capital and, as such, was not subject to Swiss Federal withholding tax. Legal Reserves Under Swiss corporate law, a minimum of 5% of the Company's annual net income must be retained in a legal reserve until this legal reserve equals 20% of the Company's issued and outstanding aggregate par value per share capital. These legal reserves represent an appropriation of retained earnings that are not available for distribution and totaled $10.8 million at March 31, 2014 (based on exchange rates at March 31, 2014). Additionally, under Swiss corporate law, the Company is required to establish a reserve equal to the cost of repurchased treasury shares owned as of year-end. The reserve for treasury shares, which is not 210 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 13Shareholders' Equity (Continued) available for distribution, totaled $118.4 million at March 31, 2014 (based on exchange rates at March 31, 2014). Share Repurchases In March 2014, the Company's Board of Directors approved the 2014 share buyback program, which authorizes the Company to use up to $250.0 million to purchase its own shares. The Company's share buyback program is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years. Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise. Purchases may be started or stopped at any time without prior notice depending on market conditions and other factors. In September 2008, the Company's Board of Directors approved the September 2008 share buyback program for $250.0 million. In November 2011, an amendment to the September 2008 share buyback program ("September 2008amended") was approved by the Company's Board of Directors to enable future purchases of shares for cancellation. In August 2013, the September 2008 share buyback and September 2008amended share buyback programs expired. A summary of the approved share buyback programs are shown in the following table (in thousands, excluding transaction costs). March 2014 17,311 $ 250,000 September 2008amended(1) 28,465 177,030 18,500 $ 170,714 September 2008(1) 8,344 250,000 7,609 73,134 54,120 $ 677,030 26,109 $ 243,848 (1) Expired in August 2013 During fiscal year 2013, 8.6 million shares were repurchased for $87.8 million and during fiscal year 2012, 17.5 million shares were repurchased for $156.0 million. There were no share repurchases during fiscal year 2014. During fiscal year 2013, 18.5 million of the repurchased shares were cancelled. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows (in thousands): March 31, 2013 (As Revised) $ (73,783 ) $ (21,856 ) $ 510 $ (95,129 ) Other comprehensive income (loss) 2,784 7,568 (1,025 ) 9,327 March 31, 2014 $ (70,999 ) $ (14,288 ) $ (515 ) $ (85,802 ) (1) Net of tax of $192 as of March 31, 2014 and $315 as of March 31, 2013. 211 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 14Segment Information The Company has two reporting segments, peripherals and video conferencing, based on product markets and internal organizational structure. The peripherals segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of peripherals for PCs, tablets and other digital platforms. The video conferencing segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of Lifesize video conferencing products, infrastructure and services for the enterprise, public sector and other business markets. The Company's reporting segments do not record revenue on sales between segments as such sales are not material. Operating performance measures for the peripherals segment and the video conferencing segment are reported separately to Logitech's Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), who is considered to be the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM"). The CEO periodically reviews information such as net sales and operating income (loss) for each operating segment to make business decisions. These operating performance measures do not include share-based compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets. Share-based compensation expense and amortization of intangible assets are presented in the following financial information by operating segment as "other income (expense)." Assets by operating segment are not presented since the Company does not present such data to the CODM. Net sales and operating income (loss) for the Company's operating segments were as follows (in thousands): Net sales: Peripherals $ 2,008,028 $ 1,962,237 $ 2,168,742 Video conferencing 120,685 137,040 147,461 $ 2,128,713 $ 2,099,277 $ 2,316,203 Segment operating income (loss): Peripherals(1) $ 131,326 $ 25,829 $ 180,167 Video conferencing(1) (12,023 ) (229,097 ) (7,442 ) 119,303 (203,268 ) 172,725 Other income (expense): Share-based compensation (25,546 ) (25,198 ) (31,529 ) Amortization of intangibles (17,771 ) (23,571 ) (27,198 ) Interest income (expense), net (397 ) 907 2,674 Other income (expense), net 1,993 (2,198 ) 7,655 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 77,582 $ (253,328 ) $ 124,327 (1) Peripherals operating results include $8.0 million, $39.5 million, and $0 of restructuring charges during fiscal year 2014, 2013, and 2012 respectively and $2.2 million of impairment of other assets during fiscal year 2013. Video Conferencing operating results include $5.8 million, $4.2 million, and $0 of restructuring charges for fiscal year 2014, 2013, and 2012 respectively and $214.5 million of goodwill impairment charge for fiscal year 2013. 212 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 14Segment Information (Continued) Net sales by product categories, excluding intercompany transactions, were as follows (in thousands): Peripherals: PC Gaming $ 186,926 $ 144,512 $ 186,190 Tablet & Other Accessories 172,484 119,856 44,326 Mobile Speakers 87,414 33,408 21,969 Growth: 446,824 297,776 252,485 Pointing Devices 506,884 521,083 559,366 PC Keyboards & Desktops 415,512 399,144 383,697 Audio-PC &Wearables 255,573 292,245 339,394 Video 137,115 153,060 196,662 Remotes 67,371 71,641 91,000 Profit Maximization: 1,382,455 1,437,173 1,570,119 Other 37,000 86,102 160,179 Non-Strategic: 37,000 86,102 160,179 OEM 141,749 141,186 185,959 2,008,028 1,962,237 2,168,742 Video conferencing 120,685 137,040 147,461 $ 2,128,713 $ 2,099,277 $ 2,316,203 (1) Certain products within the retail product families presented in prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Geographic net sales information in the table below is based on the customers' location. Long-lived assets, primarily fixed assets, are reported below based on the location of the asset. Net sales to unaffiliated customers by geographic region for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 (based on the customers' location) were as follows (in thousands): Americas $ 859,893 $ 808,618 $ 879,076 EMEA 767,017 799,075 897,557 Asia Pacific 501,803 491,584 539,570 $ 2,128,713 $ 2,099,277 $ 2,316,203 Net sales are attributed to countries on the basis of the customers' locations. The United States represented 35%, 33% and 34% of net sales for the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. No other single country represented more than 10% of net sales during these periods. Revenues from net sales to 213 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 14Segment Information (Continued) customers in Switzerland, the Company's home domicile, represented 2% of net sales for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012. In fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, one customer in the peripherals operating segment represented 14%, 11% and 14% of net sales, respectively. As of March 31, 2014 and 2013, one customer in the peripherals operating segment represented 14% of total accounts receivable. Long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows (in thousands): Americas $ 45,166 $ 45,518 EMEA 5,154 8,093 Asia Pacific 38,071 40,110 $ 88,391 $ 93,721 Long-lived assets in the United States and China was $44.9 million and $31.9 million at March 31, 2014, respectively, and $45.5 million and $32.2 million at March 31, 2013, respectively. No other countries represented more than 10% of the Company's total consolidated long-lived assets at March 31, 2014 and 2013. Long-lived assets in Switzerland, the Company's home domicile, were $1.6 million and $3.6 million at March 31, 2014 and 2013. Note 15Restructuring The following table summarizes restructuring related activities during fiscal year 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): March 31, 2012 $ $ $ $ Charges 41,088 1,308 1,308 43,704 Cash payments (27,768 ) (1,233 ) (1,322 ) (30,323 ) Foreign exchange impact 63 14 77 March 31, 2013 13,383 75 13,458 Charges 6,463 7,348 13,811 Adjustment for deferred rent 1,450 1,450 Cash payments (19,534 ) (1,454 ) (20,988 ) Foreign exchange impact (170 ) (170 ) March 31, 2014 $ 142 $ 7,419 $ $ 7,561 214 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 15Restructuring (Continued) During the second quarter of fiscal year 2014, the Company implemented a restructuring plan solely affecting its video conferencing operating segment to align its organization to its strategic priorities of increasing focus on a tighter range of products, expanding cloud-based video conferencing services and improving profitability. Restructuring charges under this plan primarily consist of severance and other one-time termination benefits. During fiscal year 2014, restructuring charges under this plan included $5.0 million in termination benefits and $0.6 million in lease exit costs. The Company substantially completed this restructuring plan by March 31, 2014. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to align its organization to its strategic priorities of increasing focus on mobility products, improving profitability in PC-related products and enhancing global operational efficiencies. As part of this restructuring plan, the Company reduced its worldwide non-direct labor workforce. Restructuring charges under this plan primarily consisted of severance and other one-time termination benefits. During fiscal year 2014, restructuring charges under this plan included $1.5 million in termination benefits and $6.7 million in lease exit costs, $5.4 million of which pertains to the consolidation of the Company's Silicon Valley campus from two buildings down to one during the quarter ended March 31, 2014. During fiscal year 2013, restructuring charges under this plan included $15.2 million in termination benefits. In addition, charges of $0.9 million related to the discontinuance of certain product development efforts were included in cost of goods sold and a $1.2 million charge from the re-measurement of its Swiss and Taiwan defined benefit pension plans caused by the number of plan participants affected by this restructuring, which was not included in the restructuring charges since it related to prior services. The Company substantially completed this restructuring plan by the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to simplify its organization, better align its costs with its current business and to free up resources to pursue growth opportunities. A majority of the restructuring activity was completed during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. As part of this restructuring plan, the Company reduced its worldwide non-direct labor workforce. During fiscal year 2013, restructuring charges under this plan included $25.9 million in termination benefits, $1.3 million in legal, consulting, and other costs as a result of the terminations, and $1.3 million in lease exit costs associated with the closure of existing facilities. Termination benefits are calculated based on regional benefit practices and local statutory requirements. In addition, charges of $3.0 million related to the discontinuance of certain product development efforts were included in cost of goods sold and a $2.2 million charge from the re-measurement of its Swiss defined benefit pension plan caused by the number of plan participants affected by this restructuring, which was not included in the restructuring charges since it related to prior services. The Company substantially completed this restructuring plan by the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. Termination benefits were calculated based on regional benefit practices and local statutory requirements. Lease exit costs primarily relate to costs associated with the closure of existing facilities. Other charges primarily consist of legal, consulting and other costs related to employee terminations. 215 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note 16Subsequent events Repurchase of ESPP Awards The Company was not current with its periodic reports required to be filed with the SEC and was therefore unable to issue any shares under its Registration Statements on Form S-8 after July 31, 2014. Given the proximity of the unavailability of those registration statements and the end of the current ESPP offering period, also on July 31, 2014, the Compensation Committee authorized the termination of the current ESPP offering period and a one-time payment to each participant in an amount equal to the fifteen percent (15%) discount at which shares would otherwise have been repurchased pursuant to the current period of the ESPPs. This one-time payment was accounted for as a repurchase of equity awards that reduced additional paid-in capital, resulting in no additional compensation cost. Given the unavailability of the Company's Registration Statements on Form S-8, no new ESPP offering periods were initiated since July 31, 2014. Dividend On November 12, 2014, the Board approved, subject to approval by the Company's shareholders and other Swiss statutory requirements, a dividend of CHF 0.2625 per share. 216 Table of Contents LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. SUPPLEMENTARY DATA QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited) The following table contains selected unaudited quarterly financial data for fiscal years 2014 and 2013 (in thousands, except per share amounts). See tables below for details of the correcting adjustments relating to these periods: Net sales $ 478,530 $ 531,143 $ 628,719 $ 490,321 $ 468,604 $ 547,693 $ 614,500 $ 468,481 Cost of goods sold 309,268 348,181 414,418 328,977 323,297 351,887 405,051 309,408 Gross profit 169,262 182,962 214,301 161,344 145,307 195,806 209,449 159,073 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 101,093 93,451 94,273 90,930 101,021 110,603 112,792 107,469 Research and development 36,527 37,485 34,577 30,796 39,120 38,181 40,572 37,139 General and administrative 29,077 29,172 31,998 28,693 32,583 26,014 26,432 29,352 Impairment of goodwill and other assets 211,000 5,688 Restructuring charges/(credits) 2,334 5,465 822 5,190 30,571 (2,015 ) (358 ) 15,506 Total operating expenses 169,031 165,573 161,670 155,609 203,295 172,783 390,438 195,154 Operating income (loss) 231 17,389 52,631 5,735 (57,988 ) 23,023 (180,989 ) (36,081 ) Interest income (expense), net (23 ) 183 (1,022 ) 465 384 153 114 255 Other income (expense), net 217 62 1,082 632 (159 ) (509 ) (3,670 ) 2,139 Income (loss) before income taxes 425 17,634 52,691 6,832 (57,763 ) 22,667 (184,545 ) (33,687 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (801 ) 3,058 4,807 (3,786 ) (6,910 ) (31,081 ) 11,367 814 Net income (loss) $ 1,226 $ 14,576 $ 47,884 $ 10,618 $ (50,853 ) $ 53,748 $ (195,912 ) $ (34,501 ) Net income (loss) per share(4): Basic $ 0.01 $ 0.09 $ 0.30 $ 0.07 $ (0.32 ) $ 0.34 $ (1.24 ) $ (0.22 ) Diluted $ 0.01 $ 0.09 $ 0.29 $ 0.06 $ (0.32 ) $ 0.34 $ (1.24 ) $ (0.22 ) Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share : Basic 159,298 159,969 160,871 162,255 160,733 156,736 157,706 158,716 Diluted 160,281 161,183 163,388 165,766 160,733 157,932 157,706 158,716 (1) During the first and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2013, the Company announced restructuring plans intended align the organization to its strategic priorities of increasing focus on mobility products, improving profitability in PC-related product and enhancing global operational efficiencies. (2) Impairment of goodwill and other assets during the third quarter of fiscal year 2013 was due to an estimated $211.0 million goodwill impairment charge related to the video conferencing reporting unit. (3) Impairment of goodwill and other assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013 was due to an additional $3.5 million in goodwill impairment charge related to the video conferencing reporting unit and $2.2 million in impairment charges related to the digital video security product line. (4) Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each of the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. (5) During the quarter ended September 30, 2013, the Company implemented a restructuring plan solely affecting the video conferencing operating segment to align its organization to its strategic priorities of increasing focus on a tighter range of products, expanding cloud-based video conferencing services and improving profitability. 217 Table of Contents (6) The Company incurred $5.4 million of restructuring charges related to lease exit costs which pertains to the consolidation our Silicon Valley campus from two buildings down to one during the quarter ended March 31, 2014. Consolidated Statements of Operations. The following tables present the impact of the correcting adjustments on the Company's previously-reported consolidated statements of operations for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2014, all quarters of fiscal year 2013 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 (in thousands): Net sales $ 477,924 $ 606 (4) $ 478,530 $ 531,972 $ (829 )(4) $ 531,143 Cost of goods sold 309,569 165 (2) 309,268 348,559 181 (2) 348,181 (466 )(4) (559 )(4) Gross profit 168,355 907 169,262 183,413 (451 ) 182,962 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 100,635 161 (2) 101,093 93,710 176 (2) 93,451 297 (4) (435 )(4) Research and development 36,191 132 (2) 36,527 37,633 144 (2) 37,485 204 (4) (292 )(4) General and administrative 29,148 87 (2) 29,077 29,395 95 (2) 29,172 (158 )(4) (318 )(4) Restructuring charges 2,334 2,334 5,465 5,465 Total operating expenses 168,308 723 169,031 166,203 (630 ) 165,573 Operating income 47 184 231 17,210 179 17,389 Interest income (expense), net (23 ) (23 ) 183 183 Other income, net 217 217 62 62 Income before income taxes 241 184 425 17,455 179 17,634 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (802 ) 1 (4) (801 ) 3,057 1 (4) 3,058 Net income $ 1,043 $ 183 $ 1,226 $ 14,398 $ 178 $ 14,576 Net income per share: Basic $ 0.01 $ $ 0.01 $ 0.09 $ $ 0.09 Diluted $ 0.01 $ $ 0.01 $ 0.09 $ $ 0.09 Shares used to compute net income per share: Basic 159,298 159,298 159,969 159,969 Diluted 160,281 160,281 161,183 161,183 218 Table of Contents Net sales $ 627,890 $ 829 (4) $ 628,719 Cost of goods sold 414,528 229 (2) 414,418 (339 )(4) Gross profit 213,362 939 214,301 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 93,624 222 (2) 94,273 427 (4) Research and development 34,103 182 (2) 34,577 292 (4) General and administrative 31,560 120 (2) 31,998 318 (4) Restructuring charges 822 822 Total operating expenses 160,109 1,561 161,670 Operating income 53,253 (622 ) 52,631 Interest expense, net (1,022 ) (1,022 ) Other income, net 1,082 1,082 Income before income taxes 53,313 (622 ) 52,691 Provision for income taxes 4,810 (3 )(4) 4,807 Net income $ 48,503 $ (619 ) $ 47,884 Net income per share: Basic $ 0.30 $ $ 0.30 Diluted $ 0.30 $ (0.01 ) $ 0.29 Shares used to compute net income per share: Basic 160,871 160,871 Diluted 163,388 163,388 219 Table of Contents Net sales $ 468,604 $ $ 468,604 $ 547,693 $ $ 547,693 Cost of goods sold 323,258 149 (2) 323,297 351,919 110 (2) 351,887 (110 )(4) (142 )(4) Gross profit 145,346 (39 ) 145,307 195,774 32 195,806 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 100,897 145 (2) 101,021 110,522 107 (2) 110,603 (21 )(4) (26 )(4) Research and development 39,023 118 (2) 39,120 38,114 88 (2) 38,181 (21 )(4) (21 )(4) General and administrative 32,480 78 (2) 32,583 25,980 58 (2) 26,014 25 (4) (24 )(4) Restructuring charges/(credits) 31,227 (656 )(4) 30,571 (2,671 ) 656 (4) (2,015 ) Total operating expenses 203,627 (332 ) 203,295 171,945 838 172,783 Operating income (loss) (58,281 ) 293 (57,988 ) 23,829 (806 ) 23,023 Interest income, net 384 384 153 153 Other expense, net (159 ) (159 ) (509 ) (509 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (58,056 ) 293 (57,763 ) 23,473 (806 ) 22,667 Benefit from income taxes (6,910 ) (6,910 ) (31,076 ) (5 )(4) (31,081 ) Net income (loss) $ (51,146 ) $ 293 $ (50,853 ) $ 54,549 $ (801 ) $ 53,748 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ (0.32 ) $ $ (0.32 ) $ 0.35 $ (0.01 ) $ 0.34 Diluted $ (0.32 ) $ $ (0.32 ) $ 0.35 $ (0.01 ) $ 0.34 Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 160,733 160,733 156,736 156,736 Diluted 160,733 160,733 157,932 157,932 220 Table of Contents Net sales $ 614,500 $ $ 614,500 $ 469,087 $ (606 )(4) $ 468,481 Cost of goods sold 404,695 120 (2) 405,051 309,854 29 (2) 309,408 236 (4) (475 )(4) Gross profit 209,805 (356 ) 209,449 159,233 (160 ) 159,073 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 112,698 116 (2) 112,792 107,480 28 (2) 107,469 (22 )(4) (39 )(4) Research and development 40,488 95 (2) 40,572 36,582 23 (2) 37,139 (11 )(4) 534 (4) General and administrative 26,382 63 (2) 26,432 28,982 15 (2) 29,352 (13 )(4) 355 (4) Impairment of goodwill and others 211,000 211,000 5,688 5,688 Restructuring charges/(credits) (358 ) (358 ) 15,506 15,506 Total operating expenses 390,210 228 390,438 194,238 916 195,154 Operating loss (180,405 ) (584 ) (180,989 ) (35,005 ) (1,076 ) (36,081 ) Interest income, net 114 114 255 255 Other income (expense), net (3,670 ) (3,670 ) 2,139 2,139 Loss before income taxes (183,961 ) (584 ) (184,545 ) (32,611 ) (1,076 ) (33,687 ) Provision for income taxes 11,370 (3 )(4) 11,367 1,028 (214 )(4) 814 Net loss $ (195,331 ) $ (581 ) $ (195,912 ) $ (33,639 ) $ (862 ) $ (34,501 ) Net loss per share: Basic $ (1.24 ) $ $ (1.24 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.01 ) $ (0.22 ) Diluted $ (1.24 ) $ $ (1.24 ) $ (0.21 ) $ (0.01 ) $ (0.22 ) Shares used to compute net loss per share: Basic 157,706 157,706 158,716 158,716 Diluted 157,706 157,706 158,716 158,716 Adjustments (1), (2), (3), and (4) in the above unaudited quarterly financial data tables are explained in Part II, Item 6, Selected Financial Data. 221 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements for the three months period ended June 30, 2011 The following tables present the impact of correcting adjustments on the Company's previously-reported consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2011, consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2011 and consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended June 30, 2011. Adjustments (1), (2), and (3) in the below consolidated financial data are explained in Part II, Item 6, Selected Financial Data. Adjustment (4) in the below consolidated financial data reflect an adjustment of $0.4 million to increase the Company's warranty accrual and an adjustment to increase amortization of intangibles by $0.2 million, and adjustment of classification of gains from the sales of property, plant and equipment included in our Fiscal Year 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed on August 7, 2013 as well as other immaterial correcting adjustments explained in Part II, Item 6, Selected Financial Data. Net sales $ 480,441 $ $ 480,441 Cost of goods sold 354,834 (34,074 )(1) 321,693 1,294 (3) (361 )(4) Gross profit 125,607 33,141 158,748 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 99,793 (902 )(4) 98,891 Research and development 39,981 41 (4) 40,022 General and administrative 30,865 (4,769 )(4) 26,096 Impairment of goodwill and other assets Restructuring charges Total operating expenses 170,639 (5,630 ) 165,009 Operating loss (45,032 ) 38,771 (6,261 ) Interest income, net 690 690 Other income, net 5,191 (4,904 )(4) 287 Loss before income taxes (39,151 ) 33,867 (5,284 ) Benefit from income taxes (9,545 ) 152 (4) (9,393 ) Net income (loss) (29,606 ) 33,715 4,109 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ (0.17 ) $ 0.19 $ 0.02 Diluted $ (0.17 ) $ 0.19 $ 0.02 Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 179,331 179,331 Diluted 179,331 752 180,083 222 Table of Contents ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 476,367 $ $ 476,367 Accounts receivable, net 241,456 241,456 Inventories 317,548 3,044 (1) 320,592 Other current assets 90,117 1,010 (4) 91,127 Total current assets 1,125,488 4,054 1,129,542 Non-recurring assets: Property, plant and equipment, net 81,236 7,930 (2) 89,166 Goodwill 547,184 547,184 Other intangible assets 67,986 (1,046 )(4) 66,940 Other assets 71,183 (3,068 )(4) 68,115 Total assets $ 1,893,077 $ 7,870 $ 1,900,947 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 328,305 (975 )(4) 327,330 Accrued and other current liabilities 189,374 11,642 (4) 201,016 Total current liabilities 517,679 10,667 528,346 Non-current liabilities 189,059 11,850 (4) 200,909 Total liabilities $ 706,738 $ 22,517 $ 729,255 Commitments and contingencies Shareholders' equity: Registered shares, CHF 0.25 par value: Issued and authorized shares191,606 at June 30, 2011 Conditionally authorized shares50,000 at June 30, 2011 $ 33,370 33,370 Additional paid-in capital 6,952 (3,472 )(4) 3,480 Less: shares in treasury, at cost12,236 at June 30, 2011 (260,938 ) (260,938 ) Retained earnings 1,484,562 3,344 (1) 1,473,916 7,930 (2) (21,920 )(4) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (77,607 ) (529 ) (78,136 ) Total shareholders' equity 1,186,339 (14,647 ) 1,171,692 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 1,893,077 $ 7,870 $ 1,900,947 223 Table of Contents Cash flows from operating activities: Net income (loss) $ (29,606 ) $ 34,074 (1) $ 4,109 (1,294 )(3) 935 (4) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation 13,172 1,630 (2) 14,961 159 (4) Amortization of other intangible assets 6,630 166 (4) 6,796 Share-based compensation expense 9,715 9,715 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (4,904 ) (4,904 ) Inventory valuation adjustment 34,074 (34,074 )(1) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation (24 ) (24 ) Deferred income taxes and other (13,701 ) 639 (4) (13,062 ) Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions: Accounts receivable 19,097 19,097 Inventories (54,783 ) (54,783 ) Other assets (6,015 ) 957 (4) (5,058 ) Accounts payable 29,346 (17 )(4) 29,329 Accrued and other liabilities 743 (1,545 )(4) (802 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 3,744 1,630 5,374 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchases of property, plant and equipment (10,561 ) (1,630 )(2) (12,191 ) Proceeds from sales of property and plant 4,904 4,904 Purchases of trading investments (3,545 ) (3,545 ) Proceeds from sales of trading investments 3,500 3,500 Net cash used in investing activities (5,702 ) (1,630 ) (7,332 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Proceeds from sales of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights 607 607 Tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units (176 ) (176 ) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 24 24 Net cash used in financing activities 455 455 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (61 ) (61 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (1,564 ) (1,564 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 477,931 477,931 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 476,367 $ $ 476,367 * "As Reported" numbers in the above tables are derived from the Company's previously issued Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 8, 2011. 224 Table of Contents Schedule II LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS For the Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands) The Company's Schedule II includes valuation and qualifying accounts related to allowances for doubtful accounts, sales returns, cooperative marketing arrangements, customer incentive programs, and pricing programs, for direct customers and tax valuation allowances. The Company also has sales incentive programs for indirect customers with whom it does not have a direct sales and receivable relationship. These programs are recorded as accrued liabilities and are not considered valuation or qualifying accounts. Allowance for doubtful accounts: 2014 $ 2,153 $ 656 $ (1,097 ) $ 1,712 2013 2,472 $ (107 ) $ (212 ) $ 2,153 2012 4,086 $ (592 ) $ (1,022 ) $ 2,472 Allowance for sales returns: 2014 $ 21,883 $ 59,483 $ (61,894 ) $ 19,472 2013 24,599 $ 61,315 $ (64,031 ) $ 21,883 2012 29,666 $ 72,543 $ (77,610 ) $ 24,599 Allowances for cooperative marketing arrangements: 2014 $ 24,160 $ 102,751 $ (102,776 ) $ 24,135 2013 24,109 $ 96,278 $ (96,227 ) $ 24,160 2012 28,669 $ 101,557 $ (106,117 ) $ 24,109 Allowances for customer incentive programs: 2014 $ 42,857 $ 106,810 $ (108,267 ) $ 41,400 2013 42,262 $ 94,313 $ (93,718 ) $ 42,857 2012 52,358 $ 108,683 $ (118,779 ) $ 42,262 Allowances for pricing programs: 2014 $ 55,858 $ 221,702 $ (208,114 ) $ 69,446 2013 (As revised) 60,371 $ 182,916 $ (187,429 ) $ 55,858 2012 62,258 $ 196,808 $ (198,695 ) $ 60,371 Tax valuation allowances: 2014 $ 6,014 $ 515 $ (1,657 ) $ 4,872 2013 2,205 $ 3,865 $ (56 ) $ 6,014 2012 2,309 $ $ (104 ) $ 2,205 225 EX-21.1 2 a2221898zex-21_1.htm EX-21.1 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document Exhibit 21.1 LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES AMERICAS Logitech Inc. United States of America Logitech (Slim Devices) Inc. United States of America Logitech (Streaming Media) Inc. United States of America WiLife, Inc. United States of America Ultimate Ears LLC United States of America Ultimate Ears Incorporated United States of America UE Acquisition Inc. United States of America UE Consumer, LLC United States of America SightSpeed, Inc. United States of America Lifesize Communications, Inc United States of America Lifesize, Inc. United States of America Logitech Latin America, Inc. United States of America Logitech Argentina S.R.L. Argentina Dexxa Accessorios De Informatica Do Brasil Ltda. Brazil Logitech Canada Inc. Canada Logitech de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico Logitech Servicios Latinoamrica, S.A. de C.V. Mexico EUROPE Logitech S.A. Switzerland Logitech Europe S.A. Switzerland Labtec Europe S.A. Switzerland Logitech (Streaming Media) SA Switzerland Logitech Schweiz AG Switzerland 3Dconnexion S.A. Switzerland Logitech Ireland Services Limited Ireland Logitech GmbH Federal Republic of Germany Logitech UK Limited United Kingdom Logitech (Jersey) Limited Jersey, Channel Islands SAS Logitech France Republic of France Logitech Benelux B.V. Kingdom of the Netherlands Logitech Italia SRL Republic of Italy Logitech Mirial Srl Republic of Italy Logitech Norway AS Norway Logitech Espana BCN SL Spain Logitech Nordic AB Sweden Logitech Poland Spolka z.o.o. Poland Logitech Middle East FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates Logitech Hellas MEPE Greece Limited Liability Company "Logitech" Russia Logi Peripherals Technologies (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited South Africa ASIA PACIFIC Logitech Technology (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. People's Republic of China Logitech (Beijing) Trading Company Limited People's Republic of China Logitech Technology (Shenzhen) Consulting Co., Ltd People's Republic of China Logitech (China) Technology Co., Ltd. People's Republic of China Logitech Far East, Ltd. Taiwan, Republic of China Logitech Asia Logistics Limited Hong Kong Logitech Asia Pacific Limited Hong Kong Logitech Hong Kong, Limited Hong Kong Logitech Service Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Republic of Singapore Logitech Singapore Pte. Ltd. Republic of Singapore Logi Computer Peripherals (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Malaysia Logicool Co., Ltd. Japan Logitech Electronic (India) Private Limited India Logitech Engineering & Designs India Private Limited India Logitech Trading Pvt. Ltd. India Logitech Korea Ltd. Korea Logitech New Zealand Co., Ltd. New Zealand Logitech Australia Computer Peripherals Pty, Limited Commonwealth of Australia QuickLinks Exhibit 21.1 LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A. LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES EX-23.1 3 a2221898zex-23_1.htm EX-23.1 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-100854, No. 333-140429, No. 333-157038, No. 333-163933, No. 333-167143, No. 333-180725, No. 333-180726, No. 333-184583 and No. 333-192728) of Logitech International S.A. of our report dated November 13, 2014, relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K. /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP San Jose, California November 13, 2014 QuickLinks Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM EX-31.1 4 a2221898zex-31_1.htm EX-31.1 QuickLinks -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document Exhibit 31.1 CERTIFICATIONS I, Bracken P. Darrell, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Logitech International S.A.; 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure