Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Overview, Critical Accounting Estimates and Liquidity and Capital Resources, among others. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or "SEC." You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences. More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal computer (PC) platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud. Logitech's brands include Logitech, Jaybird, Ultimate Ears, Logitech G and ASTRO Gaming. Logitech was founded in Switzerland in 1981, and Logitech International S.A. has been the parent holding company of Logitech since 1988. Logitech International S.A. is a Swiss holding company with its registered office in Apples, Switzerland, which conducts its business through subsidiaries in the Americas (including North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Asia Pacific (including, among other countries, China, Taiwan, Japan, India and Australia). Shares of Logitech International S.A. are listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange, under the trading symbol LOGN, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, under the trading symbol LOGI. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the "Company," "Logitech," "we," "our," and "us" refer to Logitech International S.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our products participate in five large markets that all have growth opportunities: Music, Gaming, Video Collaboration, Smart Home and Creativity & Productivity. We sell our products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers, and indirect sales through distributors. Our worldwide channel network includes consumer electronics distributors, retailers, mass merchandisers, specialty stores, computer and telecommunications stores, value-added resellers and online merchants. We operate in a single operating segment: Peripherals. In fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2016, we operated in two segments: Peripherals, including retail and OEM products; and Lifesize Video Conferencing. During fiscal year 2016, we divested the Lifesize Video Conferencing segment and exited the OEM business. Sales of products from Lifesize Video Conferencing represented 4% of our net sales for the fiscal year 2016. Our financial results treat the Lifesize segment as discontinued operations for all the periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information about segments and geographic areas, please refer to Note 16 of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Acquisitions On April 20, 2016, we acquired Jaybird LLC of Salt Lake City, Utah (Jaybird), for a purchase price of $54.2 million, including a working capital adjustment and payment of a line-of-credit on behalf of Jaybird, along with an additional earn-out of up to $45.0 million based on achievement of growth targets over two years (the Jaybird Acquisition). In October 2017, Logitech and the sellers of Jaybird entered into an agreement fully, irrevocably and unconditionally releasing Logitech from the earn-out rights and payments in exchange for $5.0 million in cash, which was paid in November 2017. Jaybird is a leader in wireless audio wearables for sports and active lifestyles. The acquisition of Jaybird expands our long-term growth potential in our Music market. On September 15, 2016, we completed the acquisition of the Saitek product line for a total consideration of approximately $13.0 million (the Saitek Acquisition). The Saitek Acquisition enhances the breadth and depth of our product offerings in the Gaming category and expands our engineering capabilities in simulation products. On August 11, 2017, we acquired certain assets and liabilities constituting the ASTRO Gaming business (ASTRO) from AG Acquisition Corporation for a purchase price of $85.0 million in cash (the ASTRO Acquisition). ASTRO is a leading console gaming accessory brand with a history of producing award-winning headsets for professional gamers and enthusiasts. ASTRO provides a strong growth platform in the console gaming accessories market. In November 2017, the Company also made a small technology acquisition for a total consideration of $5.2 million in cash. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 3 Table of Contents Industry Overview Historically, Logitech's business has been driven by the same trends that drove the adoption of desktop and laptop PCs for consumers, businesses and institutional applications, including the growth in affordable processing power, communications bandwidth, the increased accessibility of digital content, and the growing and pervasive use of the internet for productivity, communication and entertainment. These trends have created opportunities for new applications, new users and dramatically richer interaction between people and digital content. In the last several years, the decline in shipments of new PCs, combined with increased interest in smaller, mobile computing devices (such as smartphones and tablets) has rapidly changed the market for PC peripherals. We see opportunities created by consumers' desire to refresh their current PCs with new peripherals and new trends developing within the connected device ecosystems. In addition, new use cases for newly connected screens create opportunities for innovations, such as living room keyboards and multi-device keyboards, that can deliver incremental growth. Consumers are also enhancing their tablet experience with a range of keyboards and cases that enable them to create, consume and do more with their tablets conveniently and comfortably. In addition, growing adoption of cloud-based experiences in music, gaming, video, and smart home has expanded our addressable market opportunities. More and more consumers today interact with cloud-based content platforms, such as Spotify and Pandora for streaming music or Steam and Twitch for gaming. Logitech offers peripherals and accessories to enhance the use of such cloud-based content platforms. Cloud-based music services have enjoyed tremendous growth, fueled by the adoption of smartphones, tablets, and other connected devices. Consumers are optimizing their audio experiences on their tablets and smartphones with wireless mobile speakers that pair easily with their mobile devices and with in-ear and other headphones. Our mobile speakers and in-ear headphone products target a large and growing market that reflects the increasing popularity of mobile devices or various voice assistants for accessing digital music. Additionally, within the music market, consumers are increasingly listening with wireless earphones while they undertake other activities such as sports. In the gaming market, the rapid rise of electronic sports (eSports), and the development of new technologies in social, virtual and augmented reality present growth opportunities. We leverage our deep research and development (R&D) capabilities in the area of PC peripherals to develop industry-leading gaming gear that enhances consumers' overall gaming experience and performance. As consumers increasingly watch various eSports tournaments or other gaming broadcasts on cloud-based platforms such as Twitch, the gaming industry is becoming both a source of entertainment and participation by mainstream consumers. We sponsor and work closely with eSports athletes to improve our brand and the quality and functionality of our gaming products. We also offer gaming peripherals that enhance more casual gamers' experience. The use of video across multiple platforms - PCs, laptops and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones - is a continuing trend. The video communication industry continues to make progress toward a vision in which people can conduct a video call from any of these platforms to any other platform. And this trend among businesses and institutions to embrace cloud video conferencing is driving our Video Collaboration category and offers a long-term growth opportunity for Logitech. For businesses and institutions, video conferencing is increasingly substituted for travel, because of high travel costs as well as the productivity gain that can be achieved by a high-quality face-to-face meeting that does not require travel away from the office. Further, with the increased availability of high internet bandwidth, video conferencing is becoming a key component of Unified Communications, which is the integration of communications solutions such as voicemail, e-mail, chat, presentation sharing and live video meetings. The market opportunity to provide innovative, affordable, and easy-to-use video collaboration products to the millions of small- to medium-sized meeting rooms lacking video is substantial, and we are well-positioned to take advantage of it. The home is also an important place for technological development, particularly as an increasing number of objects become connected smart home devices such as home security cameras, light bulbs, security locks, thermostats and others. Logitechs line of universal remotes and hubs control electronic and connected devices around the home as well as these other smart devices. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 4 Table of Contents Business Strategy Logitech's foundation for future growth is built on five core capabilities that apply to all of our product categories: Design; Engineering; Go-to-market; Marketing; Operations. Design In the past few years, Logitech has strengthened its design capabilities by hiring a Chief Design Officer as well as building a world-class team of internal designers. Our designs have an everyday place in peoples lives, connecting them to the digital experiences they care about. These products have been earning prestigious design awards - more than 160 design awards during the past five years - and enthusiastic reviews in the media. This is an important indication that Logitechs strategic aim to become a design company is working. During the fiscal year 2018 alone, we won fifty design awards spanning all of our product categories and brands. As Logitech becomes a design company, design is used as a strategic and cultural differentiator. Design also helps to reduce product costs through increased collaboration between our design, engineering and manufacturing teams. Our key design centers are in Switzerland, Ireland, the United States, and Taiwan. Engineering Our decades-long expertise in key engineering disciplines such as sensors, acoustics, optics, wireless, and power management is a core competitive advantage of Logitech. Furthermore, we continue to extend our engineering capabilities into more advanced technologies such as software, apps, cloud, data analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence. Our engineering team has expertise in developing products for a broad array of platforms such as PCs, mobile and personal voice assistants (such as Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant). These engineering capabilities combined with our award-winning design team forms the basis of Logitech's key innovation engine. Go-To-Market Over the past 30-plus years, Logitech has built an extensive global go-to-market network that can be leveraged as we introduce new products, enter new market categories and optimize the value of our existing products and product categories. We have multiple opportunities to drive growth - existing products in existing retailers, new products in existing retailers, existing products in new retailers, and new products in new retailers. Beyond traditional retail and distribution channels, we have also cultivated various non-traditional retail channels to sell our products. As we continue to expand into new channels, there are numerous cross-selling opportunities across our broad product portfolio. We have established Logitech as a neutral technology supplier that can work with leading technology vendors and platforms as well as provide connections among their products and ecosystems. Marketing As Logitech expands into multiple categories with multiple brands, we will focus on enhancing our marketing capabilities around brand strategy and execution, digital marketing, and marketing technology. We developed and executed internally many of our marketing and creative efforts that were once outsourced to outside marketing agencies to move from concept to execution with speed and cost efficiency. We are increasing our leverage of digital media channels and programs to drive consumer brand engagement and purchase. We are also increasing our focus on marketing analytics platforms to improve our understanding of our marketing investments and to maximize our return on investment (ROI). And we are making investments to upgrade all aspects of our marketing infrastructure, including the re-platforming of all our websites to support the global expansion of our brands, countries, languages, devices and support the acceleration of our digital marketing efforts. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 5 Table of Contents Operations Logitechs operations capability consists of a hybrid model of in-house manufacturing and third-party contract manufacturers, which allows us to effectively respond to rapidly changing demand and leverage economies of scale. Our supply chains extensive global reach, key distribution and strategic business relationships combined with extensive analytic modeling expertise, optimization tools, and global processes provide a competitive advantage against many of our competitors. As we drive toward a global operations supply chain, we will continue to increase our adoption of factory automation. Products Logitech designs, manufactures and markets products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms. The large majority of our revenue has historically been derived from sales of our products for use by consumers. Music Mobile Speakers: Our Mobile Speakers category comprises portable wireless Bluetooth and Wi-Fi speakers. One of our top revenue-generating products during fiscal year 2018 was Ultimate Ears WONDERBOOM, our latest addition to our line-up of 360 portable Bluetooth wireless speakers that provide bold, immersive sound in every direction. The Ultimate Ears WONDERBOOM was a key driver for success in this product category along with the Ultimate Ears BOOM 2, our flagship Bluetooth speaker, and MEGABOOM, a 360 portable, waterproof, Bluetooth wireless speaker with more bass that is a larger and more powerful complement to Ultimate Ears BOOM 2. In fiscal year 2018, we introduced our first voice-enabled Wi-Fi speakers with integrated Amazon Alexa: Ultimate Ears BLAST and MEGABLAST. Audio-PC & Wearables: Our Audio-PC & Wearables category comprises PC speakers, PC headsets, in-ear headphones and premium wireless audio wearables designed to enhance the audio experience. We offer both the Jaybird wireless audio wearables for sports and active lifestyles and our custom in-ear headphones. Gaming Logitech G provides gamers of all levels with industry-leading keyboards, mice, headsets, mousepads and simulation products such as steering wheels and flight sticks, incorporating innovative design and advanced technologies . Some of our products in this category include: The Logitech G513 RGB Mechanical Gaming Keyboard, which features Romer-G switches, LIGHTSYNC intelligent RGB illumination, a leather palm rest, a metal top case, and a USB pass-through. The Logitech G PRO Gaming Headset that was designed in collaboration with the world's top professionals. The PRO Headset is built with high quality materials and advanced technologies to provide superior audio performance. The Logitech G903 Wireless Gaming Mouse, which features our LIGHTSPEED TM professional grade wireless technology, an advanced optical gaming sensor, a flexible ambidextrous design, and support for our POWERPLAY TM wireless charging solution, for maximum performance and comfort over long gameplay sessions. The Logitech G29 Driving Force Steering Wheel for Sony PlayStation 4, which features a powerful dual-motor force feedback transmission, hand-stitched leather-wrapped rim, and stainless steel throttle, brake and clutch pedals for an ultra-realistic driving experience. ASTRO Gaming is a performance gaming audio and lifestyle brand focused on the audio segment of the gaming peripherals market with a cross-platform lineup consisting of four primary headset models: The A50 Wireless Headset and Base Station that targets the discerning prosumer consumer, featuring integrated MixAmp technology, Dolby Digital surround sound and the ASTRO Command Center Software system. The A40TR and MixAmp Pro, a wired solution that targets the eSport professional and live streamer, featuring Dolby Digital surround sound, daisy-chain chat, live stream port and the ASTRO Command Center Software system. The recently introduced A20 Wireless Headset, a stereo headset delivering the signature ASTRO comfort and audio customization via the ASTRO Command Center Software. The recently introduced A10 wired headset, an ultra-durable robust headset delivering ASTRO signature comfort and sound quality at a more accessible price point. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 6 Table of Contents Video Collaboration The Video Collaboration category includes Logitechs ConferenceCams, which combine enterprise-quality audio and high definition (HD) 1080p video with affordability to bring video conferencing to businesses of any size. Our key products in this category include: Logitech Group, which offers best-in-class video conferencing with HD 1080p video and professional audio that easily turns medium- to large-sized conference rooms into video-enabled collaboration rooms. Logitech MeetUp is Logitechs premier ConferenceCam designed for huddle rooms, with a room-capturing 120 FOV, 4K optics and exceptional audio performance. Logitech BRIO, which has 4K video, RightLight 3 and high dynamic range (HDR) to improve challenging lighting, and Windows Hello facial recognition support for secure login using just your face. Smart Home Our Smart Home category includes our Harmony line of advanced home entertainment controllers, new products dedicated to controlling emerging categories of connected smart home devices such as lighting, thermostats and door locks, and home security cameras. Examples of products in this category include: The Logitech Harmony Elite and the Logitech Harmony Companion, both of which feature Logitech's Harmony Hub and integration with the most popular voice platforms - Google and Amazon - for complete control of the home entertainment system, including Bluetooth and IP devices such as PS4 and Roku. The Logitech Harmony 350, 650 and 950 remotes, which offer infrared (IR)-only control of home entertainment devices and enable consumers to replace many remotes with one. Circle 2, an indoor and outdoor, weatherproof, wired or 100% wire-free 1080p HD home security camera with night vision and up to 180 field-of-view, which connects with smart home platforms including Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and Apple HomeKit. Creativity & Productivity Pointing devices: Logitech offers a variety of pointing devices, sold through retail channels. Some of our key products in this category include: The Logitech MX Master 2S and MX Anywhere 2S wireless mice, our flagship wireless mouse products. Enabled with Logitech Flow cross-computer control software, these products represent the new paradigm for precise, fast, comfortable cross-computer digital navigation. The Logitech MX Ergo, a wireless trackball that offers personalized comfort with a unique adjustable hinge, precision tracking with multi-device connectivity. The Logitech Wireless Mouse M325, which offers micro-precise scrolling, 18-month battery life and comfortable design. The Logitech Wireless Mouse M185, a wireless mouse with nano receiver technology that is compatible with any computer. Keyboards & Combos: Logitech offers a variety of corded and cordless keyboards, living room keyboards, and combos (keyboard-and-mouse combinations). Some of our products in this category include: The Logitech Craft Advanced Wireless keyboard, a premium backlit keyboard with customizable input dial to access directly menus and shortcuts within leading creativity and productivity apps. The Logitech Wireless Touch Keyboard K400 Plus, a compact keyboard with an integrated touchpad and 10-meter wireless range, designed for use in the living room. The Logitech Wireless Combo MK270, a full-size keyboard and mouse combination with tiny USB receiver. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 7 Table of Contents Tablet & Other Accessories: Our Tablet & Other Accessories category includes keyboards and covers for tablets and smartphones as well as other accessories for mobile devices. These products are mostly for iPads but are also for select Samsung and other Android tablets. Some of our products in this category include : The Logitech Slim Combo Backlit Keyboard Case with Smart Connector for the iPad Pro 12.9 and iPad Pro 10.5 that provides thin and light front and back protection, a detachable backlit keyboard and a multi-angle stand for optimal viewing and face-time. The Logitech Slim Folio Keyboard Case with Bluetooth for the iPad 5th Generation that provides thin and light front and back protection, a keyboard with shortcut keys and an optimized angle for viewing. The Logitech Keys-To-Go, an ultra-portable, stand-alone keyboard. PC Webcams: Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers. The Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920, which offers razor-sharp HD 1080p video recordings and stereo sound, was our top revenue-generating webcam during fiscal year 2018 . Research, Development and Design We recognize that continued investment in product research, development and design is critical to facilitate innovation of new and improved products, technologies and experiences. Our research, development and design expenses for fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 were $143.8 million , $130.5 million and $113.2 million , respectively. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to research, development and design, including devices for digital platforms, video communications, wireless technologies, power management, user interfaces and device database management to sustain our competitive position. Sales and Distribution Principal Markets Net sales by geographic region for fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 (based on the customers' location) are as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 Americas $ 1,118,324 $ 963,674 $ 881,379 EMEA 820,347 746,898 645,694 Asia Pacific 628,192 510,855 491,027 $ 2,566,863 $ 2,221,427 $ 2,018,100 Revenues from sales to customers in Switzerland, our home domicile, represented 2% of our total consolidated net sales in each of fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . In fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , the United States represented 37% , 37% and 38% of our total consolidated net sales, respectively. In fiscal year 2018 and 2017 , Germany represented 16% and 17% of net sales, respectively. No other single country represented more than 10% of our total consolidated net sales for fiscal years 2018 , 2017 or 2016 . Sales and Distribution Our sales and marketing activities are organized into three geographic regions: the Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Asia Pacific (China, Japan, Australia, Taiwan, India and other countries). We primarily sell our products to a network of distributors, retailers and e-tailers. We support these channels with third-party distribution centers located in North America, South America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Major distributors in North America include Ingram Micro Inc., Tech Data Corporation, D&H Distributing Company, and Synnex Corporation. In Europe, major Pan-European distributors include Ingram Micro, Tech Data, and Gem Distribution. We also sell to many regional distributors such as Actebis GmbH in Germany, Littlebit Technology Partners AG in the Netherlands, Copaco Dc B.V. in the Netherlands and others. In Asia, major distributors include Wincheers International Trading Co., Ltd in China, Beijing Digital China Limited in China, Daiwabo in Japan, Synnex in Australia and the Pan-Asian distributor, Ingram Micro. Our distributor customers typically resell products to retailers, value-added resellers, systems integrators and other distributors with whom Logitech does not have a direct relationship. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 8 Table of Contents Logitech's products can be purchased in most major retail chains, where we typically have access to significant shelf space. In the U.S., these chains include Best Buy, Walmart, Staples, Office Depot and Target. In Europe, chains include Metro Group (Media-Saturn Group), Carrefour Group, Kesa Electricals, Fnac, and Dixons Stores Group PLC. Logitech also sells products to non-traditional retail channels such as telcos. In addition, Logitech products can be purchased online either directly from Logitech.com or through e-tailers, such as Amazon.com, the websites of our major retail chains noted previously, and others. Logitech products are also carried by business-to-business direct market resellers such as CDW, Insight, Zones, PC Connection, and SHI. In fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , Ingram Micro and its affiliated entities together accounted for 15% , 15% and 14% of our net sales, respectively. In fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , Amazon Inc. and its affiliated entities together accounted for 13% , 12% and 10% of our net sales, respectively. No other customer individually accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during fiscal years 2018 , 2017 or 2016 . The material terms of our distribution agreements with Ingram Micro and its affiliated entities are summarized as follows: The agreements are non-exclusive in the particular territory and contain no minimum purchase requirements. Each agreement may be terminated for convenience at any time by either party. Most agreements provide for termination on 30 days written notice from either party, with two Ingram Micro agreements providing for termination on 90 days notice. We generally offer an allowance for marketing activities equal to a negotiated percentage of sales and volume rebates related to purchase volumes or sales of specific products to specified retailers. These terms vary by agreement. Agreements allow price protection credits to be issued for on-hand or in-transit new inventory if we, in our sole discretion, lower the price of the product. We grant limited stock rotation return rights in certain territories. The material terms of our reseller agreements with Amazon and its affiliated entities are summarized as follows: Each agreement has a one year term followed by one year automatic renewals. We generally offer an allowance for marketing activities equal to a negotiated percentage of sales through transactions and additional rebates related to sales of specific products to end users. These terms vary by agreement. Agreements allow price protection credits to be issued for on-hand or in-transit new inventory if we, in our sole discretion, lower the price of the product. Through our operating subsidiaries, we maintain marketing and channel support offices in approximately 40 countries. Backlog In our experience, the amount of backlog at any particular fiscal period-end is not a meaningful indication of our future business prospects, as the cycle between order and shipment of our sales is generally relatively short, and also the backlog is impacted by the commercial cycle of our products. Customer Service and Technical Support Our customer service organization provides user technical support, support related to product inquiry, and order support. We support these customer service functions with an outsourced operation that has support centers located in China, South Korea, India, the Philippines, Mexico, Bulgaria and Northern Ireland. Our customer service and technical personnel in each of our regions provide support services to retail purchasers of products through telephone, e-mail, forums, chat, and the Logitech Support website. Logitech provides warranties on our branded products that range from one to five years. In Korea, India, and China, there are multiple locations where consumers may obtain service for their Logitech products. These locations are managed by third-party logistics providers. Consumers who have purchased Logitech products can visit these locations for product inspection, testing and return or exchange of products. Within China, there is also a mail-in center to provide these services for more remote locations in China. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 9 Table of Contents Manufacturing Logitech's manufacturing operations consist principally of final assembly and testing. Since 1994, we have had our own manufacturing operations in Suzhou, China, which currently handles approximately half of our total production of products. We continue to focus on ensuring the efficiency of the Suzhou facilities, through the implementation of quality management, automation, process improvements, and employee involvement programs. We outsource the remaining production to contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers located in Asia. Both our in-house and outsourced manufacturing operations are managed by our worldwide operations group. The worldwide operations group also supports the business units and marketing and sales organizations through the management of distribution centers and the supply chain and the provision of technical support and other services. New product launches, process engineering, commodities management, logistics, quality assurance, operations management and management of Logitech's contract manufacturers occur in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Malaysia. Certain components are manufactured to Logitech's specifications by vendors in Asia, the United States, and Europe. We also use contract manufacturers to supplement internal capacity and to reduce volatility in production volumes. In addition, some products, including most keyboards, certain gaming devices and certain audio products are manufactured by contract manufacturers to Logitech's specifications. Our hybrid model of in-house manufacturing and contract manufacturers allows us to effectively respond to rapidly changing demand and leverage economies of scale. Through our high-volume manufacturing operations located in Suzhou, China, we believe we have been able to maintain strong quality process controls and have realized significant cost efficiencies. Our Suzhou operation provides for increased production capacity, manufacturing know-how, IP protection and greater flexibility in responding to product demand. Further, by outsourcing the manufacturing of certain products, we seek to reduce volatility in production volumes as well as improve time to market. Competition Our product categories are characterized by large, well-financed competitors, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets. We have experienced aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and less-established brands, including brands owned by some retail customers known as house brands. We may also encounter more competition if any of our competitors in one or more categories decide to enter other categories in which we currently operate. As we target opportunities in new categories and markets, we are confronting new competitors, many of which may have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories, as well as future ones we might enter. Many of these companies have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources than we have. We expect continued competitive pressure in our business, including in the terms and conditions that our competitors offer customers, which may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our net sales and operating margins. Music Mobile Speakers: Our competitors for Bluetooth wireless speakers include Bose Corporation, Harman International Industries, Inc (owned by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.), and Beats Electronics LLC (owned by Apple Inc.). Harman is our largest competitor. Personal voice assistance and other devices that offer music, such as Sonos, Amazon's Echo, Google Home and Apple HomePod, also compete with our products. Amazon is also a significant customer of our products. Audio-PC & Wearables: In the PC speakers business, our competitors include Bose, Cyber Acoustics, Phillips and Creative Labs, Inc. In the PC headset business, our main competitors include Plantronics Inc. and GN Netcom. In-ear headphones competitors include Beats, Bose, Apple, Sennheiser, and others. Gaming Competitors for our Gaming products include Razer Inc., Corsair Component Inc., SteelSeries, Turtle Beach Corporation and Kingston Technology Corporation. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 10 Table of Contents Video Collaboration Our competitors for Video Collaboration products include Cisco Systems, Inc., Polycom, Inc. (being acquired by Plantronics, Inc.), and AVer Information Inc. Smart Home Direct competitors in the remote control market include pro-installer-focused Universal Remote Control Inc., and new DIY entrants. Indirect competition exists in the form of low-end replacement remotes such as Sony Corporation, RCA Corporation, General Electric Company (GE), pure app-based solutions such as Peel Technologies, as well as device and/or subscriber-specific solutions from TV makers such as Samsung and Vizio and multiple-system operators (MSOs) such as Comcast Corporation and DirecTV. Competition in the home control market also exists in the form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with its Echo product, Google Home and Nest (owned by Alphabet Inc.), Wink and many other startups in the space. Many of these products and brands are partners with Logitech as well via integrations with Harmony remotes. Creativity and Productivity Pointing Devices: Apple, Microsoft Corporation and HP Inc. are our main competitors worldwide. We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets, such as Elecom Co., Ltd., Buffalo Inc., Shenzhen Rapoo Technology Co., Ltd., and Xiaomi Inc. Keyboards & Combos: Microsoft, Apple and HP are the main competitors in our PC keyboard product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless keyboard and combos from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets. Tablet & Other Accessories: Competitors in the tablet keyboard market are Apple, Zagg Inc., Kensington Computer Products Group, Belkin International, Inc., Targus Corporation and other less-established brands. Although we are one of the leaders in the tablet keyboard market and continue to bring innovative offerings to the market, we expect the competition may increase. Competitors in the tablet case market include Apple, Otter Products LLC, Speck Products and a large number of small brands. PC Webcams: Our primary competitors for PC webcams are Microsoft and HP with various other manufacturers taking smaller market share. Razer Inc. has entered the market recently, targeting gamecasters. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Intellectual property rights that apply to Logitech's products and services include patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. While we believe that patent protection is important, we also believe that patents are of less competitive significance than factors such as technological innovation, ease of use, and quality design. No single patent is in itself essential to Logitech as a whole. From time to time we receive claims that we may be infringing on patents or other intellectual property rights of others. As appropriate, claims are referred to counsel, and current claims are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for certain intellectual property rights. Refer also to the discussion in Item 1A, Risk Factors"We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products." and "Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could adversely affect our business." To distinguish genuine Logitech products from competing products and counterfeit products, Logitech has used, registered, or applied to register certain trademarks and trade names in the U.S. and other countries and jurisdictions. Logitech enforces its trademark and trade name rights in the U.S. and other countries. In addition, the software for Logitech's products and services is entitled to copyright protection, and we generally require our customers to obtain a software license before providing them with that software. We also protect details about our products and services as trade secrets through employee training, license and non-disclosure agreements, technical measures and other reasonable efforts to preserve confidentiality. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 11 Table of Contents Environmental Regulation We are subject to laws and regulations in many jurisdictions regulating the materials used in our products and, increasingly, product-related energy consumption, and the recycling of our products, batteries, and packaging. Europe. In Europe, we are subject to the European Union's (EU's), Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronics Equipment Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS Directive). This directive restricts the placement into the EU market of electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium, and halogenated flame-retardants. All Logitech products are covered by the directive and have been modified, if necessary, to be compliant with the RoHS Directive, we issue a declaration of conformity and mark the product with the 'CE' mark. We are also subject to the EU's Energy-related Products Directive (ErP Directive), which aims to encourage manufacturers and importers to produce products designed to minimize overall environmental impact. Under the ErP Directive, manufacturers must ensure that their energy-related products comply with applicable requirements, issue a declaration of conformity and mark the product with the 'CE' mark. We have assessed the applicability and implementation of the applicable measures on our relevant product lines and have taken steps to ensure that our products meet the requirements. Adoption of the ErP Directive will be aligned in all EU member states. Similar requirements exist in the four member states of the European Free Trade Association (Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland). Such requirements are substantially met by compliance with the ErP Directive. We are also subject to a number of End of Life Stewardship directives including the EU's Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, the EU Packaging Directive and the EU Battery Directive, which require producers of electrical goods, packaging, and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Where applicable, we have provided for the estimated costs, which are not material, of managing and recycling historical and future waste equipment, packaging and batteries. We are also subject to the European REACH Directive (Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restrictions of Chemicals) (REACH Directive) and we have taken steps to ensure that our relevant product lines are compliant with the applicable provision of the REACH Directive. China. In China, we are subject to China's laws on Management Methods on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products (the China RoHS laws). The China RoHS laws are substantially similar to the EU RoHS Directive, and as such, our products are already compliant. The China RoHS laws require additional labeling of products that will be shipped to China and we have taken steps to ensure we comply with these requirements. United States and Canada. In the U.S., we are subject to, among other laws, the Appliance Efficiency Regulations adopted via the U.S. Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products and such standards apply to appliances sold or offered for sale throughout the U.S. We have redesigned or changed certain of our products to ensure compliance with these regulations. We are also subject to California's Proposition 65, which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the state of California to be dangerous. Logitech is also subject to the requirement as set out by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, specifically Section 1502, which addresses the use of "Conflict Minerals" in the supply chain. We have established systems which facilitate our compliance with the sourcing, traceability and reporting obligations and the reporting requirements of this Act aligned with guidelines published by the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a member of the Responsible Business Alliance or RBA (formerly the EICC), we participate in the industry-wide Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative and its Conflict-Free Smelter Program by which these requirements are met. In addition, the Transparency in Supply Chain Act of 2010 (S.B. 657) is effective from Logitech's fiscal year 2012. The law requires all retailers and manufacturers of tangible products who do business in California and have annual worldwide gross receipts exceeding $100 million to disclose on their company websites their efforts to combat forced labor and human trafficking in their own supply chains. Similarly, Logitech complies with the requirements of the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of 2015 requiring certain commercial organizations to transparently report their efforts to identify and eradicate slavery and human trafficking in their supply chain. Further information is provided in our annual Sustainability Report and Logitech's disclosure posted on our website, www.logitech.com. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 12 Table of Contents We are subject to laws in various Canadian provinces and U.S. states that impose fees to cover the cost of end of life responsible disposal and recycling of packaging, product, and batteries. These laws require producers of electrical goods, packaging, and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Where applicable, we have provided for the estimated costs, which are not material, of managing and recycling historical and future waste equipment, packaging, and batteries. Australia and New Zealand. In Australia and New Zealand, we are subject to the Minimum Energy Performance Standards regulations (MEPS). These regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products within the scope of the regulations, which includes some of our products. We have taken steps to modify products to ensure they are in compliance with MEPS. We expect further laws governing product and packaging recycling to be introduced in other jurisdictions, many or most of which could impose fees to cover recycling costs, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. If such legislation is enacted in other countries, Logitech intends to develop compliance programs as necessary. However, until that time, we are not able to estimate any possible impact. The effects on Logitech's business of complying with other government regulations are limited to the cost of agency fees and testing, as well as the time required to obtain agency approvals. There are also stewardship costs associated with the end of life collection, recycling and recovery of Logitech products, packaging and batteries where Logitech is recognized as the steward and participates in relevant programs. The costs and schedule requirements are industry requirements and therefore do not represent an undue burden relative to Logitech's competitive position. As regulations change, we will modify our products or processes to address those changes. In addition to monitoring and managing compliance with environmental regulations, we also monitor and align with international good practice standards for environmental, social and sustainability performance. We joined the RBA (formerly EICC) in 2007 to collaborate with industry peers to drive international good practice across the electronics sector. Since 2007, we have fully adopted the RBA Code of Conduct and we publish an annual Sustainability Report, in alignment with the good practice standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. For more information on our approach to sustainability management, RBA Code of Conduct compliance and international good practice, refer to our annual Sustainability Report, which is available from the sustainability page on www.logitech.com. Seasonality Our product sales are typically seasonal. Sales are generally highest during our third fiscal quarter (October to December) primarily due to the increased demand for our products during the year-end holiday buying season. Due to the timing of our new product introductions, we believe that year-over-year comparisons are more indicative of variability in our results of operations than the current quarter to prior quarter comparisons. Materials We purchase certain products and key components used in our products from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers go out of business, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our shipments to our customers could be delayed. In addition, lead times for materials, components, and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, our ability to forecast product demand, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs. Employees As of March 31, 2018 , we employed approximately 6,100 regular employees, of which approximately 3,100 employees are in our Suzhou manufacturing facilities, and from the remaining 3,000 regular employees, approximately 720 are dedicated to research and development. None of Logitech's U.S. employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Certain other countries, such as China, provide by law for employee rights, which include requirements similar to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 13 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of March 31, 2018 : Name Age Nationality Position Guerrino De Luca 65 Italian and U.S. Executive Chairman of the Board Bracken Darrell 55 U.S. President and Chief Executive Officer Vincent Pilette 46 Belgian Chief Financial Officer Marcel Stolk 50 Dutch Executive Chairman, Logitech Europe S.A.; Sr. Vice President, Creativity & Productivity L. Joseph Sullivan 64 U.S. Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Operations* * On May 2, 2018, Mr. Sullivan announced his retirement and resignation as an executive officer, effective immediately. Mr. Sullivan's retirement will be effective as of February 2, 2019, the end of his contractual notice period. Guerrino De Luca has served as Chairman of the Logitech Board of Directors since 2008. Mr. De Luca served as Chief Executive Officer from April 2012 to January 2013 and acting President and Logitech's Chief Executive Officer from July 2011 to April 2012. Previously, Mr. De Luca served as Logitech's President and Chief Executive Officer from February 1998, when he joined the Company, to January 2008. He has been an executive member of the Board of Directors since June 1998. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. De Luca served as Executive Vice President of Worldwide Marketing for Apple Computer, Inc., a consumer electronics and computer company, from February 1997 to September 1997, and as President of Claris Corporation, a U.S. personal computing software vendor, from May 1994 to February 1997. Prior to joining Claris, Mr. De Luca held various positions with Apple in the United States and in Europe. Mr. De Luca serves on the board of directors of Nielsen Holdings plc. Mr. De Luca holds a Laurea degree in Electronic Engineering from the University of Rome, Italy. Bracken Darrell joined Logitech as President in April 2012 and became Chief Executive Officer in January 2013. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Darrell served as President of Whirlpool EMEA and Executive Vice President of Whirlpool Corporation, a home appliance manufacturer and marketing company, from January 2009 to March 2012. Previously, Mr. Darrell had been Senior Vice President, Operations of Whirlpool EMEA from May 2008 to January 2009. From 2002 to May 2008, Mr. Darrell was with the Procter & Gamble Company (P&G), a consumer brand company, most recently as the President of its Braun GmbH subsidiary. Prior to rejoining P&G in 2002, Mr. Darrell served in various executive and managerial positions with General Electric Company from 1997 to 2002, with P&G from 1991 to 1997, and with PepsiCo Inc. from 1987 to 1989. Mr. Darrell holds a BA degree from Hendrix College and an MBA from Harvard University. Vincent Pilette joined Logitech in September 2013 as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Pilette served as Chief Financial Officer of Electronics for Imaging, Inc., a digital printing innovation and solutions company, from January 2011 through August 2013. From January 2009 through December 2010, he served as Vice President of Finance for the Enterprise Server, Storage and Networking Group at Hewlett-Packard Company (HP). Prior to this role, Mr. Pilette served as Vice President of Finance for the HP Software Group from December 2005 through December 2008. Mr. Pilette held various other finance positions at HP, in the U.S and Europe, Middle East and Africa, since joining HP in 1997. Mr. Pilette holds an MS in Engineering and Business from Universit Catholique de Louvain in Belgium and an MBA from Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. Marcel Stolk joined Logitech in March 2011 as Vice President, Sales and Marketing EMEA and Executive Managing Director EMEA, and was appointed Senior Vice President, Consumer Computing Platforms (currently Creativity & Productivity) Business Group in January 2013 and Executive Chairman of Logitech Europe S.A. in January 2017. Previously, Mr. Stolk was the Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing at Logitech, from March 2001 to October 2005, and held a number of positions within the sales and marketing functions at Logitech from 1991 to 2001. Prior to rejoining Logitech in 2011, he was the Chief Executive Officer of SourceTag BV, a software company for unique tagging of cloud-based data, from September 2010 to March 2011. Mr. Stolk has also been the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Adoria Investments BV, a private equity company, from October 2005 to July 2010, and he remains the sole owner. Before joining Logitech in 1991, Mr. Stolk held various sales and product marketing positions at Aashima Technology BV, a provider of PC components and accessories, in the Netherlands. Mr. Stolk studied at Utrecht in the Netherlands and has participated in university-level executive courses, including an executive training course at Stanford University. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 14 Table of Contents L. Joseph Sullivan joined Logitech in October 2005 as Vice President, Operations Strategy, and served as our Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations from April 2006 until May 2018. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Sullivan was Vice President of Operational Excellence and Quality for Carrier Corporation, a subsidiary of United Technologies, from 2001 to 2005. Previously, he was with ACCO Brands, Inc. in engineering and manufacturing management roles from 1998 to 2001. Mr. Sullivan holds a BS degree in Marketing Management and an MBA degree in Operations Management from Suffolk University in Massachusetts. Available Information Our Investor Relations website is located at http://ir.logitech.com. We post and maintain an archive of our earnings and other press releases, current reports, annual and quarterly reports, earnings release schedule, information regarding annual general meetings, further information on corporate governance, and other information regarding the Company on the Investor Relations website. The information we post includes filings we make with the SEC, including reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, and our proxy statement related to our annual shareholders' meeting and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to U.S. securities laws or Swiss laws. All such filings and information are available free of charge on the website, and we make them available on the website as soon as reasonably possible after we file or furnish them with the SEC. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and our references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. In addition, Logitech publishes press releases upon the occurrence of significant events within Logitech. Shareholders and members of the public may elect to receive e-mails when Logitech issues press releases upon the occurrence of significant events within Logitech or other press releases by subscribing through http://ir.logitech.com/alerts.cfm. As a Swiss company traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange, and as a company subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we file reports on transactions in Logitech securities by members of Logitech's Board of Directors and executive officers. The reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 3, 4 and 5, along with our other SEC filings, may be accessed on our website or on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov, and the reports we file that are published by the SIX Swiss Exchange may be accessed at http://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/obligations/management_transactions_en.html. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in results may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict due to the nature of the markets in which we compete, fluctuating user demand, the uncertainty of current and future global economic conditions, and for many other reasons, including the following: Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. A significant portion of our quarterly retail sales typically occurs in the last weeks of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting quarterly revenues and profitability. Our sales are impacted by consumer demand and current and future global economic and political conditions, and can, therefore, fluctuate abruptly and significantly during periods of uncertain economic conditions or geographic distress, as well as from shifts in distributor inventory practices and consumer buying patterns. We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and such activity varies from period to period. Such variance may affect our growth, our previous outlook and expectations, and comparisons of our operating results and financial statements between periods. We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories. We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and the success or failure of such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate and to be difficult to predict. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, our results may be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our shares to decline. If we fail to innovate and develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner for our new and existing product categories, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 16 Table of Contents The success of our product portfolio depends on several factors, including our ability to: Identify new features, functionality and opportunities; Anticipate technology, market trends and consumer preferences; Develop innovative, high-quality, and reliable new products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner; Distinguish our products from those of our competitors; and Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers. If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products that we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may not be competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically. As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We believe sales of PCs will continue to decline, and that our future growth will depend on our diversified product growth opportunities beyond the PC, and if we do not successfully execute on our growth opportunities, if our growth opportunities are more limited than we expect or if our sales of PC peripherals are less than we expect, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future. As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets is slowing and, in some cases, declining and we expect this trend may continue. Our sales of PC peripherals might be less than we expect due to a decline in business or economic conditions in one or more of the countries or regions, a greater decline than we expect in demand for our products, our inability to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons. Global economic concerns, such as the varying pace of global economic recovery, political uncertainties created by policy changes such as Brexit, tariffs and policies that inhibit trade, the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, the impact of oil prices on Russia and Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 17 Table of Contents other countries, conflicts with either local or global financial implications and economic slowdown in China, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. As a result, we are focusing more of our attention, which may include the personnel, financial resources and management attention, on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for the consumption of digital music, products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below. Music. We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a sales growth area. Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase. Moreover, the market for mobile speakers appears to be maturing with slower growth. If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines and introduce differentiated products and marketing strategies to separate our products and brands from competitors' products and brands, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Gaming . We are building a diverse business that features a variety of gaming peripherals. The rapidly evolving and changing market and increasing competition increase the risk that we do not allocate our resources in line with the market and our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Video Collaboration. While we view the small and medium sized user groups opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we are developing. If the market opportunity proves to be sustainable, we expect increased competition from the large competitors in the video conferencing market as well as potential new entrants. Smart Home . While we are a leader in programmable, performance remote controls for home entertainment, the smart home market is still in its early stages and it is not yet clear when the category will produce dynamic growth or which products will succeed and be able to take advantage of market growth or to help define and grow the market. Despite its early stages, the smart home market already is experiencing increasing competition from strong competitors. In addition to our current growth opportunities, our future growth may be reliant on our ability to identify and develop potential new growth opportunities. This process is inherently risky and will result in investments in time and resources for which we do not achieve any return or value. Each of these growth categories and many of the growth opportunities that we may pursue are subject to constant and rapidly changing and evolving technologies and evolving industry standards and may be replaced by new technology concepts or platforms. Some of these growth categories and opportunities are also characterized by short product cycles, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and rapidly changing and evolving consumer preferences with respect to design and features that require calculated risk-taking and fast responsiveness and result in short opportunities to establish a market presence. In addition, some of these growth categories and opportunities are characterized by price competition, erosion of premium-priced segments and average selling prices, and sensitivity to general economic conditions and cyclical downturns. If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner that are attractive to consumers in these markets, if we are otherwise unsuccessful entering and competing in these growth categories or responding to the rapidly changing conditions in these growth categories, if the growth categories in which we invest our limited resources do not emerge as the opportunities or do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, or if we do not correctly anticipate changes and evolutions in technology and platforms, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, or if our brands or reputation are damaged, our reputation, business and operating results could be adversely affected. We have developed long-term value in our brands and have invested significantly in design and in our existing and new brands over the past several years. We believe that our design and brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is very important to our future growth and success. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will require significant investments and will depend largely on our future design, products and marketing, which may not be successful and may damage our brands. Our brands Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 18 Table of Contents and reputation are also dependent on third parties, such as suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, product reviewers and the media as well as online consumer product reviews, consumer recommendations and referrals. It can take significant time, resources and expense to overcome negative publicity, reviews or perception. Any negative effect on our brands, regardless of whether it is in our control, could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The peripherals industry is intensely competitive. Most of our product categories are characterized by large, well-financed competitors, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands. In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions that may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins. In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell and entered new markets. We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories as well as in future categories we might enter. Many of these companies, such as Microsoft, Apple, Google, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Plantronics/Polycom, Samsung and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon are leading producers of operating systems, hardware, platforms and applications with which our mice, keyboards, wireless speakers and other products are designed to operate. In addition, Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon each has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. As a result, Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon each may be able to improve the functionality of its products, if any, or may choose to show preference to our competitors' products, to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems, hardware and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft, Apple, Google, Amazon or other competitors with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft, Apple, Google, Amazon or other competitors may be able to control distribution channels or offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and maybe financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share. Music Mobile Speakers. Our competitors for Bluetooth wireless speakers include Bose, Harman (owned by Samsung) and Beats (owned by Apple). Harman is our largest competitor. Apple's ownership of Beats may impact our access to shelf space in Apple retail stores and adversely impact our ability to succeed in this important growth market. Personal voice assistants and other devices that offer music, such as Sonos, Amazon's Echo, Google Home and Apple HomePod also compete with our products. Amazon is also a significant distributor of our products. Audio-PC & Wearables . In the PC speakers category, our competitors include Bose, Cyber Acoustics, Phillips and Creative Labs. In the PC headset business, our main competitors include Plantronics and GN Netcom. In-ear headphones competitors include Beats, Bose, Apple, Sennheiser, and others. Gaming Competitors for our Gaming products include Razer USA, Corsair, SteelSeries, Turtle Beach and Kingston. Video Collaboration Our competitors for Video Collaboration products include Cisco Systems, Polycom (being acquired by Plantronics), and AVer Information. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 19 Table of Contents Smart Home Direct competitors in the remote control market include pro-installer-focused Universal Remote Control and new DIY entrants. Indirect competition exists in the form of low-end replacement remotes such as Sony, RCA, GE, pure app-based solutions such as Peel, as well as device and/or subscriber-specific solutions from TV makers such as Samsung and Vizio and multisystem operators, or MSOs, such as Comcast and DirecTV. Competition in the home control market also exists in form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with their Echo product, Google Home and Nest (owned by Alphabet), Wink and many other startups. Many of these products and brands are partners with Logitech as well via integrations with Harmony remotes. Creativity & Productivity Pointing Devices. Apple, Microsoft and HP are our main competitors worldwide. We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets such as Elecom, Buffalo, Rapoo and Xiaomi. Keyboards & Combo . Microsoft, Apple and HP are our main competitors in our keyboard and combo product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for keyboard and combos from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets. Tablet & Other Accessories . Competitors in the tablet keyboard market are Apple, Zagg, Kensington, Belkin, Targus and other less-established brands. Although we are one of the leaders in the tablet keyboard market and continue to bring innovative offerings to the market, we expect the competition may increase. Competitors in the tablet case market include Apple, OtterBox, Speck and a large number of small brands. PC Webcams. Our primary competitors for PC webcams are Microsoft and HP with various other manufacturers taking smaller market share. Razer has entered the market recently, targeting gamecasters. Our business depends in part on access to third-party platforms or technologies, and if the access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our peripherals business has historically been built largely around the PC platform, which over time became relatively open, and its inputs and operating system standardized. With the growth of mobile, tablet, gaming and other computer devices, digital music and personal voice assistants, the number of platforms has grown, and with it the complexity and increased need for us to have business and contractual relationships with the platform owners in order to produce products compatible with these platforms. Our product portfolio includes current and future products designed for use with third-party platforms or software, such as the Apple iPad, iPod, iPhone and Siri, Android phones and tablets, Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa . Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, some of whom are our competitors. Platform owners that are competitors have a competitive advantage in designing products for their platforms and may produce peripherals or other products that work better, or are perceived to work better, than our products in connection with those platforms. As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners. Our access to third-party platforms may require paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the third-party platforms or technologies used to interact with our product portfolio can be delayed in production or can change without prior notice to us, which can result in our having excess inventory or lower margins. If we are unable to access third-party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies are delayed or change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 20 Table of Contents If we do not accurately forecast market demand for our products, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products. Although we receive forecasts from our customers, many are not obligated to purchase the forecasted demand. Also, actual sales volumes for individual products in our retail distribution channel can be volatile due to changes in consumer preferences and other reasons. In addition, our products have short product life cycles, so a failure to accurately predict high demand for a product can result in lost sales that we may not recover in subsequent periods, or higher product costs if we meet demand by paying higher costs for materials, production and delivery. We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space. Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories. If our sales channel partners have excess inventory of our products or decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, they may decrease the amount of products they acquire in subsequent periods, causing disruption in our business and adversely affecting our forecasts and sales. Over the past few years, we have expanded the types of products we sell and the geographic markets in which we sell them. The changes in our product portfolio and the expansion of our sales markets have increased the difficulty of accurately forecasting product demand. In addition, since fiscal year 2016 we have increased the percentage of our products that we manufacture in our own facilities. This increases the inventory that we purchase and maintain to support such manufacturing. We are also utilizing sea shipments more extensively than air delivery, which will cause us to build and ship products to our distribution centers earlier and will also result in increases in inventory. These operational shifts increase the risk that we have excess or obsolete inventory if we do not accurately forecast product demand. We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products. We expect other differences between forecasts and actual demand to arise in the future. If we do not accurately predict product demand, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel. From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions. We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees. In addition, we must carefully balance the size of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows. If we are unable to manage the size of our employee base, particularly engineers, we may fail to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our operating cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, including declines in our stock prices in the past year, may also affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted equity incentives. Logitechs practice has been to provide equity incentives to its employees, but the number of shares available for equity grants is limited. We may find it difficult to provide competitive equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer. Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce to align our employee base with our business strategy, our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus. We have also experienced turnover in Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 21 Table of Contents our workforce. These reductions and turnover have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee uncertainty and discontent. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to attract, motivate and retain employees, which could adversely affect our business. Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on multiple factors, which can result in unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Our gross margins can vary due to consumer demand, competition, product pricing, product lifecycle, product mix, new product introductions, unit volumes, acquisitions and divestitures, commodity, supply chain and logistics costs, capacity utilization, geographic sales mix, currency exchange rates, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. In particular, if we are not able to introduce new products in a timely manner at the product cost we expect, or if consumer demand for our products is less than we anticipate, or if there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react or that are initiated by us to drive sales that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will be less than we project. In addition, our gross margins may vary significantly by product line, sales geography and customer type, as well as within product lines. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected. As we expand within and into new product categories, our products in those categories may have lower gross margins than in our traditional product categories. Consumer demand in these product categories, based on style, color and other factors, tends to be less predictable and tends to vary more across geographic markets. As a result, we may face higher up-front investments, inventory costs associated with attempting to anticipate consumer preferences, and increased inventory write-offs. If we are unable to offset these potentially lower margins by enhancing the margins in our more traditional product categories, our profitability may be adversely affected. The impact of these factors on gross margins can create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares. As we continue our efforts to lower our costs and improve our operating leverage, we may or may not fully realize our goals. Our strategy over the past several years has been based in part on simplifying the organization, reducing operating costs through global workforce reductions and a reduction in the complexity of our product portfolio, with the goal of better aligning costs with our current business. We restructured our business in fiscal years 2014 through 2016, and we may continue to divest or discontinue non-strategic product categories. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business. In addition, we are continuing the rationalization of our general and administrative expense, infrastructure and indirect procurement to reduce operating expenses. Our ability to achieve the desired and anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these simplification, cost-cutting and restructuring activities, and within our desired and expected timeframes, are subject to many estimates and assumptions, and the actual savings and timing for those savings may vary materially based on factors such as local labor regulations, negotiations with third parties, and operational requirements. These estimates and assumptions are also subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the desired and anticipated benefits from these activities. To the extent that we are unable to improve our financial performance, further restructuring measures may be required in the future. Furthermore, we are expecting to be able to use the anticipated cost savings from these activities to fund and support our current growth opportunities and incremental investments for future growth. If the cost-savings do not materialize as anticipated, or within our expected timeframes, our ability to invest in growth may be limited and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. As we grow, explore new opportunities and markets, hire new management and other personnel, and fund research and development, marketing, brand development, sales, operations, investments in intellectual property and acquisitions to support this growth and our new opportunities, some or all of which may not succeed, we expect to experience continued pressure on our cost structure and expenses. As part of the restructuring plans, we reduced the size of our product portfolio and the assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category over the past several fiscal years. While we are Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 22 Table of Contents constantly replacing products and are dependent on the success of our new products, this product portfolio simplification has made us even more dependent on the success of the new products that we are introducing. As we focus on growth opportunities, we are divesting or discontinuing non-strategic product categories and pursuing strategic acquisitions and investments, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We continue to review our product portfolio and update our non-strategic product categories and products. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business. If we are unable to effect sales on favorable terms or if realignment is more costly or distracting than we expect or has a negative effect on our organization, employees and retention, then our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Discontinuing products with service components may also cause us to continue to incur expenses to maintain services within the product life cycle or to adversely affect our customer and consumer relationships and brand. Divestitures may also involve warranties, indemnification or covenants that could restrict our business or result in litigation, additional expenses or liabilities. In addition, discontinuing product categories, even categories that we consider non-strategic, reduces the size and diversification of our business and causes us to be more dependent on a smaller number of product categories. As we attempt to grow our business in strategic product categories and emerging market geographies, we will consider growth through acquisition or investment. We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities. For example, we acquired ASTRO Gaming to expand into the console gaming market, we acquired Jaybird to expand into the wireless audio wearables market, and we acquired Saitek to expand into the gaming simulation and controller markets. Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and managements attention away from other business issues and opportunities. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could be harmed. Acquisitions could also result in the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, disputes over earn-outs or other litigation, and adverse effects on relationships with our and our targets employees, customers and suppliers. Moreover, our acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategy, product, financial or other objectives or expectations, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as future impairments of intangible assets and goodwill or the recording of share-based compensation. Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful and have led to impairment charges, including a $122.7 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2015 related to our Lifesize video conferencing business which is reported in discontinued operations. Acquisitions and divestitures may also cause our operating results to fluctuate and make it difficult for investors to compare operating results and financial statements between periods. In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours. If these investments are unsuccessful, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business. Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in or issues with their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information, changes in distribution partners, practices or models or conflicts among our channels of distribution could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We primarily sell our products to a network of distributors, retailers and e-tailers (together our direct sales channel partners). We are dependent on those direct sales channel partners to distribute and sell our products to indirect sales channel partners and ultimately to consumers. The sales and business practices of all such sales channel partners, their compliance with laws and regulations, and their reputations - of which we may or may not be aware - may affect our business and our reputation. The impact of economic conditions, evolving consumer preferences, and purchasing patterns on our distribution partners, or competition between our sales channels, could result in sales channel disruption. For example, if sales at large retail stores are displaced as a result of bankruptcy, competition from Internet sales channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected. Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 23 Table of Contents Our sales channel partners also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors. If product competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms, have more products available to meet their needs, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, or if our sales channel partners show preference for their own house brands, our sales channel partners may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to maintain our distribution channels, our business will suffer. As we expand into new product categories and markets in pursuit of growth, we will have to build relationships with new channel partners and adapt to new distribution and marketing models. These new partners, practices and models may require significant management attention and operational resources and may affect our accounting, including revenue recognition, gross margins, and the ability to make comparisons from period to period. Entrenched and more experienced competitors will make these transitions difficult. If we are unable to build successful distribution channels or successfully market our products in these new product categories, we may not be able to take advantage of the growth opportunities, and our business and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. We reserve for cooperative marketing arrangements, incentive programs and pricing programs with our sales channel partners. These reserves are based on judgments and estimates, using historical experience rates, inventory levels in distribution, current trends and other factors. There could be significant differences between the actual costs of such arrangements and programs and our estimates. We use sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our direct retailer and e-tailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products. Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third-party nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products. In addition, the customers supplying sell-through data vary by geographic region and from period to period, but typically represent a majority of our retail sales. In addition, we rely on channel inventory data from our sales channel partners. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, or if we do not properly interpret this information, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area as well as potential tariffs, adverse tax consequences and pressure to move or diversify our manufacturing locations. We produce approximately half of our products at facilities we own in China. The majority of our other production is performed by third-party contract manufacturers, including original design manufacturers, in China and Malaysia. Our manufacturing operations in China could be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, strains on Chinas available labor pool, changes in labor costs and other employment dynamics, high turnover among Chinese employees, infrastructure issues, import-export issues, currency transfer restrictions, natural disasters, conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, labor unrest, and other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of Chinas laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, by increasing labor and other costs, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the local currency in the countries in which manufacturing occurs. Future appreciation of these local currencies could increase our component and other raw material costs. In addition, our labor costs could continue to rise as wage rates increase and the available labor pool declines. These conditions could adversely affect our financial results. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 24 Table of Contents As noted, we have invested significantly in our manufacturing facilities in China and relationships with third-party contractors in China and Southeast Asia. Given our manufacturing in those countries, and our lack of manufacturing elsewhere, policy changes in the United States or other countries, such as the tariffs proposed in March 2018 by the U.S. government on various imports from China, could result in tariffs or other adverse tax consequences or may cause us to increase prices or change the structure of how we currently operate, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, if our manufacturers, distribution logistics providers or transport providers are not able to successfully and timely process our business or if we do not receive timely and accurate information from such providers, and especially if we expand into new product categories or our business grows in volume, we may have an insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand, we could lose sales, we may experience a build-up in inventory, we may incur additional costs, and our financial performance and reporting may be adversely affected. By locating our manufacturing in China and Southeast Asia, we are reliant on third parties to get our products to distributors around the world. Transportation costs, fuel costs, labor unrest, natural disasters and other adverse effects on our ability, timing and cost of delivering products can increase our inventory, decrease our margins, adversely affect our relationships with distributors and other customers and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last weeks of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill customer orders in the quarter. We purchase key components and products from a limited number of sources, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers go out of business as a result of adverse global economic conditions or natural disasters, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The moral and regulatory imperatives to avoid purchasing conflict minerals are causing us to incur additional expenses, could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products and could adversely affect the distribution and sales of our products. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to identify and prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. Additional reporting obligations are being considered by the European Union. The implementation of the existing U.S. requirements and any additional requirements in Europe could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 25 Table of Contents quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, and the implementation of these requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may adversely affect our reputation. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could, if we are unable to satisfy their requirements or pass through any increased costs associated with meeting their requirements place us at a competitive disadvantage, adversely affect our business and operating results, or both. We filed our report for the calendar year 2016 with the SEC on May 30, 2017. We conduct operations in a number of countries and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us. We conduct operations in a number of countries and have invested significantly in growing our personnel and sales and marketing activities in China and, to a lesser extent, other emerging markets. We may also increase our investments to grow sales in other emerging markets, such as Latin America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; Compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental, tax, import/export and anti-corruption laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; Varying laws, regulations and other legal protections, uncertain and varying enforcement of those laws and regulations, dependence on local authorities, and the importance of local networks and relationships; Exposure to political and financial instability, especially with the uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries and the stability of the European Union, which may lead to reduced sales, currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; Political and economic uncertainty around the world, including uncertainty resulting from the recent United States presidential and congressional elections, change of administration in the United States and the United Kingdom's referendum in June 2016, and other national elections and policy shifts; Import or export restrictions or licensing requirements that could affect some of our products, including those with encryption technology; Trade protection measures, custom duties, tariffs, import or export duties, and other trade barriers, restrictions and regulations; Lack of infrastructure or services necessary or appropriate to support our products and services; Exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; Difficulties and increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition, including entrenched local competition; Weak protection of our intellectual property rights; Higher credit risks; Changes in VAT (value-added tax) or VAT reimbursement; Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 26 Table of Contents Imposition of currency exchange controls; Delays from customs brokers or government agencies; and A broad range of customs, consumer trends, and more. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Sales growth in key markets, including China, is an important part of our expectations for our business. As a result, if economic, political or business conditions deteriorate in these markets, or if one or more of the risks described above materialize in these markets, our overall business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Therefore, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to movements in currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. For fiscal year 2018, approximately 50% of our net sales were in non-U.S. denominated currencies. The weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and earnings. If we raise international pricing to compensate, it could potentially reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our sales and potentially having an adverse impact on our market share. Margins on sales of our products in non-U.S. Dollar-denominated countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers in non-U.S. Dollar-denominated countries could be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to fully offset the U.S. Dollars strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and earnings. Competitive conditions in the markets in which we operate may also limit our ability to increase prices in the event of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Conversely, strengthening of currency rates may also increase our product component costs and other expenses denominated in those currencies, adversely affecting operating results. We further note that a larger portion of our sales than of our expenses are denominated in non-U.S. denominated currencies. We use derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in currency exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place and do not protect us from long term shifts in currency exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, these exposures may change over time. As a company operating in many markets and jurisdictions and expanding into new growth categories, and as a Swiss, dual - listed company, we are subject to risks associated with new, existing and potential future laws and regulations. Based on our current business model and as we expand into new markets and product categories, we must comply with a wide variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, health and safety, hazardous materials usage, product-related energy consumption, packaging, recycling and environmental matters. Our products may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where they are manufactured, sold or both. These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs, and reputational harm and, in severe cases, force us to recall products or prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions. As a Swiss company with shares listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we are also subject to both Swiss and United States corporate governance and securities laws and regulations. In addition to the extra costs and regulatory burdens of our dual regulatory obligations, the two regulatory regimes may not always be compatible and may impose disclosure obligations, operating restrictions or tax effects on our Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 27 Table of Contents business to which our competitors and other companies are not subject. For example, on January 1, 2014, subject to certain transitional provisions, the Swiss Federal Council Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation at Public Companies (the Ordinance) became effective in connection with the Minder initiative approved by Swiss voters during 2013. The Ordinance, among other things, (a) requires a binding shareholder say on pay vote with respect to the compensation of members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (b) generally prohibits the making of severance, advance, transaction premiums and similar payments to members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (c) imposes other restrictive compensation practices, and (d) requires that our articles of incorporation specify various compensation-related matters. In addition, during 2013, Swiss voters considered an initiative to limit pay for a chief executive officer to a multiple of no more than twelve times the salary of the lowest-paid employee. Although voters rejected that initiative, it did receive substantial voter support. The Ordinance, potential future initiatives relating to corporate governance or executive compensation, and Swiss voter sentiment in favor of such regulations may increase our non-operating costs and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and members of our Board of Directors. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) which are subject to interpretation or changes by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. New accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting principles have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future which may have a significant effect on our financial results or our compliance with regulations. As a result of changes in tax laws, treaties, rulings, regulations or agreements, or their interpretation, of Switzerland or any other country in which we operate, the loss of a major tax dispute or a successful challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries, or other factors, our effective income tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws, treaties, rulings, regulations or agreements in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in managements assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. We are incorporated in the Canton of Vaud in Switzerland and our effective income tax rate benefits from a longstanding ruling from the Canton of Vaud. The tax rules in Switzerland are expected to change in response to certain guidance and demands from both the European Union and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and that could have an adverse effect on our tax ruling and effective income tax rate. Switzerlands implementation of any material change in tax laws or policies or its adoption of new interpretations of existing tax laws and rulings, or changes in our tax ruling from the Canton of Vaud, could result in a higher effective income tax rate on our worldwide earnings and such change could adversely affect our net income. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. We are frequently subject to tax audits, examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries, if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective income tax rate could increase. For example, policy changes in the United States or China predicated on our presence in those countries could adversely affect where we recognize profit and our effective income tax rate. A material assessment by a governing tax authority could adversely affect our profitability. If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income and cash flows could be adversely affected. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, such as entering new markets and introducing products for tablets, other mobile devices, digital music, and video collaboration. We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets. As we do so, we face an increased risk that claims alleging we infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit of the claims, may increase in number and Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 28 Table of Contents significance. Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap. This risk is heightened by the increase in lawsuits brought by holders of patents that do not have an operating business or are attempting to license broad patent portfolios and by the increasing attempts by companies in the technology industries to enjoin their competitors from selling products that they claim infringe their intellectual property rights. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. A successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. We might also be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation or the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be granted. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation, business and our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product liability claims and litigation, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. While we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase liability insurance, our reserves may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities and our insurance is subject to deductibles and may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities. Furthermore, our contracts with distributors and retailers may contain warranty, indemnification and other provisions related to product quality issues, and claims under those provisions may adversely affect our business and operating results. Significant disruptions in, or breaches in security of, our websites or information technology systems could adversely affect our business. As a consumer electronics company, our websites are an important presentation of our company, identity and brands and an important means of interaction with and source of information for consumers of our products. We also rely on our centralized information technology systems for product-related information and to store intellectual property, forecast our business, maintain financial records, manage operations and inventory, and operate other critical functions. We allocate significant resources to maintain our information technology systems and deploy network security, data encryption, training and other measures to protect against unauthorized access or misuse. Nevertheless, our websites and information technology systems are susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, structural or operational failures, computer viruses, attacks by Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 29 Table of Contents computer hackers, other data security issues, telecommunication failures, user error, malfeasance, catastrophes, system or software upgrades, integration or migration, or other foreseeable and unforeseen events. From time to time, we and our suppliers have identified vulnerabilities or other issues that we believe have been addressed, and we expect such issues to continue to arise. Breaches or disruptions of our websites or information technology systems, breaches of confidential information, data corruption or other data security issues could adversely affect our brands, reputation, relationships with customers or business partners, or consumer or investor perception of our company, business or products or result in disruptions of our operations, loss of intellectual property or our customers or our business partners data, reduced value of our investments in our brands, design, research and development or engineering, or costs to address regulatory inquiries or actions or private litigation, to respond to customers or partners or to rebuild or restore our websites or information technology systems. The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of user data could give rise to liabilities and additional costs of operation as a result of laws, governmental regulation and risks of security breaches. In connection with certain of our products, we collect data related to our consumers. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and especially in Europe. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is applicable to us and to all companies processing data of European Union residents, becomes effective in May 2018 and imposes significant fines and sanctions for violation of the Regulation. Government actions are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information and its collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution in or from the governing jurisdiction. In addition, because various jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the use, storage and transmission of such information, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in existing markets as well as new international markets that we seek to enter. The collection of user data heightens the risk of security breaches and other data security issues related to our IT systems and the systems of third-party data storage and other service and IT providers. Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, as well as additional security measures and risk, could subject us to costs, allocation of additional resources, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business. In previous periods, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, if we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. In connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have identified in the past and may, from time-to-time in the future, identify issues with our internal controls and deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. The most recent material weakness was identified during the preparation of our audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2017, and was related to the allowances and accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing and pricing programs. In the past, we have identified other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as described in our previous Annual Reports on Form 10-K, certain of which resulted in late filings of and an amendment to our periodic reports and in restatements of our financial results. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If our remediation efforts are not effective or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, we could be subject to litigation which, whether meritorious or not, remediation efforts could be time consuming, costly and/or divert significant operational resources, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and our reputation, business, results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected. We cannot ensure that our current share repurchase program will be fully utilized or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value. Share repurchases may also increase the volatility of the trading price of our shares. We similarly cannot ensure that we will continue to increase our dividend payments or to pay dividends at all. Share repurchases and dividends diminish our cash reserves. In March 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a three-year $250.0 million repurchase program of our registered shares. We have also paid cash dividends and increased the size of our dividend, each year since fiscal year 2013. Our share repurchase program and dividend policy may be affected by many factors, including general business and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our views on potential future capital requirements, restrictions imposed in any future debt agreements, the emergence of alternative investment Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 30 Table of Contents or acquisition opportunities, changes in our business strategy, legal requirements, changes in tax laws, and other factors. Our share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase all or any of the dollar value of shares authorized for repurchase. The program could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our shares. Similarly, we are not obligated to pay dividends on our registered shares. Under Swiss law, we may only pay dividends upon the approval of a majority of our shareholders, which is under the discretion of and generally follows a recommendation by our Board of Directors that such a dividend is in the best interests of our shareholders. There can be no assurance that our Board of Directors will continue to recommend, or that our shareholders will approve, dividend increases or any dividend at all. If we do not pay a regular dividend, we may lose the interest of investors that focus their investments on dividend-paying companies, which could create downward pressure on our share price. Any announcement of a termination or suspension of our share repurchase program or dividend may result in a decrease in our share price. The share repurchase program and payment of cash dividends could also diminish our cash reserves that may be needed for investments in our business, acquisitions or other purposes. Without dividends, the trading price of our shares must appreciate for investors to realize a gain on their investment. Goodwill impairment charges could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. Goodwill associated with a number of previous acquisitions could result in impairment charges. The slowdown in the overall video conferencing industry together with the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013 resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2013, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations. We recorded an additional impairment charge of goodwill of $122.7 million related to our Lifesize video conferencing discontinued operations in fiscal year 2015, reducing its goodwill to zero, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations again. If we divest or discontinue product categories or products that we previously acquired, or if the value of those parts of our business become impaired, we may need to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 31 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The table below represents our principal locations, their approximate square footage and their purposes as of March 31, 2018 : Location Purpose Approximate Square Footage Ownership Americas: Newark, California Design, research and development, product marketing, sales, technical support, and administration 127,000 Leased Camas, Washington Ultimate Ears Group 44,700 Leased Irvine, California Ultimate Ears Group 13,400 Leased Salt Lake City, Utah Jaybird Group 30,850 Leased Park City, Utah Jaybird Group 16,600 Leased San Francisco, California Astro Group 14,500 Leased Olive Branch, Mississippi Distribution center 400,000 Contracted (1) Mexico City, Mexico Distribution center 12,800 Contracted (1) Montevideo, Uruguay Distribution center 25,800 Contracted (1) Louveira, Brazil Distribution center 17,717 Contracted (1) EMEA: Lausanne, Switzerland Headquarters, design, research and development, product marketing, sales management, technical support and administration 50,536 Leased Cork, Ireland Administration, design, supply chain and customer support 18,400 Leased Nijmegen, Netherlands Administration and distribution center support 15,000 Leased Oostrum, Netherlands Distribution center 155,600 Contracted (1) Asia Pacific: Suzhou, China High-volume manufacturing and warehouse 581,578 Owned Suzhou, China Employee dormitory 138,266 Leased Suzhou, China High-volume manufacturing 142,807 Leased Hsinchu, Taiwan Mechanical engineering, new product launches, process engineering, commodities management, logistics, quality assurance, design, research and development and administration 116,400 Leased Hong Kong, China Sales and marketing, research and development, administration and distribution center support 15,300 Leased Shanghai, China Sales and marketing and administration 16,900 Leased Chennai, India Digital Home Group engineering and quality assurance and IT 26,468 Leased Tokyo, Japan Sales and marketing 10,100 Leased Shanghai, China Distribution Center 64,000 Contracted (1) Shanghai, China Distribution Center 35,000 Contracted (1) Singapore, Singapore Distribution Center 52,000 Contracted (1) Tokyo, Japan Distribution center 27,000 Contracted (1) _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Contracted through a third-party warehouse management company. Logitech also contracts with various distribution services throughout the world for additional warehouses in which we store inventory. We also maintain marketing and channel support offices in approximately 62 locations and 40 countries, with lease expiration dates from 2019 to 2028 . Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 32 Table of Contents We believe that Logitech's manufacturing and distribution facilities are adequate for our ongoing needs and we continue to evaluate the need for facilities to meet current and anticipated future requirements. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time-to-time, we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on the currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors. Any failure to obtain a necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect our business. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None . Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 33 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Logitech's shares are listed and traded on both the SIX Swiss Exchange, where the share price is denominated in Swiss francs and on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, where the share price is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The trading symbol for Logitech shares is LOGN on the SIX Swiss Exchange and LOGI on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. As of May 4, 2018 , there were 173,106,620 shares issued (including 7,657,460 shares held as treasury stock) held by 15,219 holders of record, and the closing price of our shares was CHF 39.68 ($39.77 based on exchange rates on such date) per share on the SIX Swiss Exchange and $39.52 per share as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market. SIX Swiss Exchange The following table sets forth certain historical share price information for our shares traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange, as reported by the SIX Swiss Exchange. SIX Swiss Exchange High CHF Low CHF Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018 First quarter 37.40 30.45 Second quarter 39.00 32.60 Third quarter 36.82 31.57 Fourth quarter 40.82 33.17 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2017 First quarter 15.90 14.25 Second quarter 21.80 15.05 Third quarter 25.45 21.20 Fourth quarter 32.05 25.10 Nasdaq Global Select Market The following table sets forth certain historical share price information for our shares traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Nasdaq Global Select Market High USD Low USD Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018 First quarter 38.34 30.64 Second quarter 40.82 34.35 Third quarter 37.22 32.66 Fourth quarter 43.54 33.19 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2017 First quarter 16.73 14.45 Second quarter 22.46 15.60 Third quarter 25.22 21.44 Fourth quarter 32.06 24.89 Dividends Under Swiss law, a corporation may only pay dividends upon a vote of its shareholders. This vote typically follows the recommendation of the corporation's Board of Directors. In May 2018, the Board of Directors Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 34 Table of Contents recommended that the Company increase the cash dividend for fiscal year 2018 by approximately10% to CHF 110.7 million ( $115.7 million based on the exchange rate on March 31, 2018). On September 12, 2017, Logitech's shareholders approved a cash dividend payment of CHF 100.0 million out of retained earnings to Logitech shareholders who owned shares on September 22, 2017. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.61 per share ($0.63 per share in U.S. Dollars), totaling $104.2 million in U.S. Dollars on September 27, 2017. On September 7, 2016, Logitech's shareholders approved a cash dividend payment of CHF 90.2 million out of retained earnings to Logitech shareholders who owned shares on September 21, 2016. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.56 per share ($0.57 per share in U.S. Dollars), totaling $93.1 million in U.S. Dollars on September 27, 2016. Dividends paid and similar cash or in-kind distributions made by Logitech to a holder of Logitech shares (including dividends or liquidation proceeds and stock dividends), other than distributions of qualifying additional paid-in-capital if it is available under the current Swiss tax regime, are subject to a Swiss federal anticipatory tax at a rate of 35%. The anticipatory tax must be withheld by Logitech from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A Swiss resident holder and beneficial owner of Logitech shares may qualify for a full refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from such dividends. A holder and beneficial owner of Logitech shares who is a non-resident of Switzerland, but a resident of a country that maintains a double tax treaty with Switzerland, may qualify for a full or partial refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from such dividends by virtue of the provisions of the applicable treaty between Switzerland and the country of residence of the holder and beneficial owner of the Logitech shares. In accordance with the tax convention between the United States and the Swiss Confederation (Treaty), a mechanism is provided whereby a U.S. resident (as determined under the Treaty), and U.S. corporations, other than U.S. corporations having a "permanent establishment" or a fixed base, as defined in the Treaty, in Switzerland, generally can obtain a refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from dividends in respect of Logitech shares, to the extent that 15% of the gross dividend is withheld as final withholding tax (i.e. 20% of the gross dividend may generally be refunded). In specific cases, U.S. companies not having a "permanent establishment" or a fixed base in Switzerland owning at least 10% of Logitech registered shares may receive a refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from dividends to the extent it exceeds 5% of the gross dividend (i.e., 30% of the gross dividend may be refunded). To get the benefit of a refund, holders must beneficially own Logitech shares at the time such dividend becomes due. Share Repurchases In fiscal year 2018, the following approved share buyback programs were in place (in thousands): Share Buyback Program Approved Shares (1) Approved Amounts March 2014 17,311 $ 250,000 March 2017 17,311 $ 250,000 (1) The approval of each of our share buyback programs by the Swiss Takeover Board limits the number of shares that we may repurchase to no more than 10% of our authorized share capital and voting rights. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 35 Table of Contents The following table presents certain information related to purchases made by Logitech of its equity securities under its publicly announced share buyback program (in thousands, except per share amounts): Weighted Average Price Per Share Remaining Amount that May Yet Be Repurchased under the Program During Fiscal Year Ended Shares Repurchased CHF (LOGN) USD (LOGI) March 31, 2016 4,951 13.52 14.63 $ 178,298 March 31, 2017 4,027 22.00 15.29 94,642 March 31, 2018 863 34.53 219,893 9,841 Total Number of Shares Repurchased Weighted Average Price Paid Per Share Remaining Amount that May Yet Be Repurchased under the Program During the three months ended March 31, 2018 CHF (LOGN) USD (LOGI) Month 1 December 31, 2017 to January 26, 2018 199 34.50 $ 223,092 Month 2 January 27, 2018 to February 23, 2018 223,092 Month 3 February 24, 2018 to March 31, 2018 83 36.57 219,893 282 35.11 $ 219,893 Performance Graph The information contained in the Performance Graph shall not be deemed to be "soliciting material" or "filed" with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), or the Exchange Act . Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 36 Table of Contents The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares, the Nasdaq Composite Index, and the S&P 500 Information and Technology Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our LOGI shares, the Nasdaq Composite Index and the S&P 500 Information and Technology Index on March 31, 2013, and calculates the annual return through March 31, 2018 . The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. ________________________________________ *$100 invested on March 31, 2013, in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Copyright 2018 Standard & Poor's, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. March 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Logitech $ 100 $ 219 $ 197 $ 248 $ 510 $ 598 Nasdaq Composite Index $ 100 $ 131 $ 154 $ 156 $ 190 $ 229 S&P 500 Information and Technology Index $ 100 $ 126 $ 148 $ 160 $ 200 $ 256 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data This financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in the future. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 37 Table of Contents Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 (2) 2015 (2) 2014 (2) (in thousands, except for per share amounts) Consolidated statement of operations and cash flow data Net sales $ 2,566,863 $ 2,221,427 $ 2,018,100 $ 2,004,908 $ 2,008,028 Cost of goods sold 1,648,744 1,395,211 1,337,053 1,299,451 1,346,122 Amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting effect on inventory 8,878 6,175 367 Gross profit 909,241 820,041 681,047 705,457 661,539 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 435,489 379,641 319,015 321,749 322,278 Research and development 143,760 130,525 113,176 107,543 110,839 General and administrative 96,353 100,270 101,012 125,995 112,689 Amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs 8,930 5,814 984 763 2,036 Change in fair value of contingent consideration for business acquisition (4,908 ) (8,092 ) Restructuring charges (credits), net (1) (116 ) 23 17,802 (4,777 ) 8,001 Total operating expenses 679,508 608,181 551,989 551,273 555,843 Operating income 229,733 211,860 129,058 154,184 105,696 Interest income (expense), net 4,969 1,452 790 1,197 (431 ) Other income (expense), net (2,437 ) 1,677 1,624 (2,298 ) 2,039 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 232,265 214,989 131,472 153,083 107,304 Provision for income taxes 23,723 9,113 3,110 4,654 1,313 Net income from continuing operations 208,542 205,876 128,362 148,429 105,991 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (9,045 ) (139,146 ) (31,687 ) Net income $ 208,542 $ 205,876 $ 119,317 $ 9,283 $ 74,304 Net income (loss) per share - basic: Continuing operations $ 1.27 $ 1.27 $ 0.79 $ 0.91 $ 0.66 Discontinued operations $ $ $ (0.06 ) $ (0.85 ) $ (0.20 ) Net income per share - basic $ 1.27 $ 1.27 $ 0.73 $ 0.06 $ 0.46 Net Income (loss) per share - diluted: Continuing operations $ 1.23 $ 1.24 $ 0.77 $ 0.89 $ 0.65 Discontinued operations $ $ $ (0.05 ) $ (0.83 ) $ (0.19 ) Net income per share - diluted $ 1.23 $ 1.24 $ 0.72 $ 0.06 $ 0.46 Weighted average shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 164,038 162,058 163,296 163,536 160,619 Diluted 168,971 165,540 165,792 166,174 162,526 Cash dividend per share $ 0.63 $ 0.57 $ 0.53 $ 0.27 $ 0.22 Net cash provided by operating activities (3) $ 346,261 $ 288,389 $ 185,195 $ 181,463 $ 207,667 Net cash used in investing activities $ (128,704 ) $ (98,964 ) $ (60,690 ) $ (48,289 ) $ (46,803 ) Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 38 Table of Contents March 31, 2018 2017 2016 (4) 2015 (4) 2014 (4) Consolidated balance sheet data Cash and cash equivalents $ 641,947 $ 547,533 $ 519,195 $ 533,380 $ 467,518 Total assets $ 1,743,157 $ 1,498,677 $ 1,324,147 $ 1,426,680 $ 1,451,390 Total shareholders' equity $ 1,050,557 $ 856,111 $ 759,948 $ 758,134 $ 804,128 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Restructuring charges and credits incurred during fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016 were related to the restructuring plan we implemented in fiscal year 2016. Restructuring charges and credits incurred during fiscal years 2015 and 2014 were related to the restructuring plan we implemented in fiscal year 2013. (2) On December 28, 2015, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and, as a result, we have reflected the Lifesize video conferencing business as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations and, as such, the results of that business have been excluded from all line items of statements of operations other than Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes for all periods noted. Historical cash flows from discontinued operations were not material and are included in the cash flow data above. (3) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation from all prior periods have been reclassified from financing activities to operating activities to conform to the consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal year 2018 due to the adoption of ASU 2016-09. (4) The above condensed consolidated cash and cash equivalents exclude Lifesize video conferencing business which is presented as discontinued operations. See Note 4, "Discontinued Operations" to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K | 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth above in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and below in Item 7A,