Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Overview, Critical Accounting Estimates and Liquidity and Capital Resources, among others. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or "SEC." You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Logitech is a world leader in designing products that have an everyday place in people's lives, connecting them to the digital experiences they care about. Over 30 years ago Logitech started connecting people through computers, and now its designing products that bring people together through music, gaming, video and computing. Logitech was founded in Switzerland in 1981, and Logitech International S.A. has been the parent holding company of Logitech since 1988. Logitech International S.A. is a Swiss holding company with its registered office in Apples, Switzerland, which conducts its business through subsidiaries in Americas (including North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Asia Pacific (including, among other countries, China, Taiwan, Japan and Australia). Shares of Logitech International S.A. are listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange, under the trading symbol LOGN, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, under the trading symbol LOGI. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the "Company," "Logitech," "we," "our," and "us" refer to Logitech International S.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Logitech designs, manufactures and markets products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms. Our products participate in five large markets that all have growth potential: Music: This market is comprised of both wired and wireless devices that capitalize on the rapid growth of streaming music. Products in this category include mobile speakers, wearables, and headsets connecting to all music services used on both PCs and mobile devices. Gaming: The Gaming market includes products designed for the PCs and consoles as well as gaming devices designed to deliver experiences such as virtual and augmented reality. The rapid rise of eSports, and the promise of new implementations in virtual and augmented reality present growth opportunities in this market. Our products in Gaming include gaming mice and keyboards, gaming headsets, gamepads and steering wheels. Video Collaboration: Video Collaboration is focused on delivering solutions that enable real-time video, audio and content sharing capability to businesses and individuals. With the rapid adoption of cloud-based solutions that can lower the cost of adoption, our devices and solutions enable the rapid deployment of these cloud-based services through our platform agnostic, and easy to use end points and peripherals. Home: The connected home is a market in its early stages of formation and growth. The push to realize the vision of the internet-of-things is delivering more and more connected devices that populate our homes, from the more traditionally connected devices like set-top boxes and digital entertainment devices to things like appliances, lighting, door locks and thermostats. We have a foundation for growth in this market through our entertainment control capabilities in devices such as our Harmony products. Creativity and Productivity: This market is defined by products that enhance the users experiences associated with computing platforms. With ever increasing connectivity globally and the consistent growth in time spent by people on these computing platforms, we believe there are meaningful growth opportunities for our products. Our continued innovation in navigation, input and content creation on these platforms can drive growth in this market despite the secular decline of new PC sales. Pointing Devices, Keyboards & Combos, Tablet & Other Accessories, and PC Webcams comprise our product categories that address this market. We sell our products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers, e-tailers, and indirect sales through distributors. Our worldwide retail network includes consumer electronics distributors, retailers, mass merchandisers, specialty electronics stores, computer and telecommunications stores, value-added resellers and online merchants. In fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2016, we had two segments: Peripherals, including retail and OEM products; and Lifesize Video Conferencing. During fiscal year 2016, we divested the Lifesize Video Conferencing segment, and exited the OEM business. Our financial results treat the Lifesize segment as discontinued operations for all the periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, sales of products through our retail channels represented 96% , 94% and 93% of our net sales for the fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 3 Table of Contents Recent Developments On April 20, 2016, we acquired Jaybird LLC of Salt Lake City, Utah, ("Jaybird") for approximately $50 million in cash, with an additional earn-out of up to $45 million based on achievement of growth targets over two years. Jaybird is a leader in wireless audio wearables for sports and active lifestyles, and the acquisition of Jaybird expands our long-term growth potential in our Music market. On December 28, 2015, we and Lifesize, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Logitech that held the assets of our Lifesize video conferencing reportable segment ("Lifesize"), entered into a stock purchase agreement with entities associated with three venture capital firms, or the Venture Investors. Immediately following the December 28, 2015 closing of the transaction, the Venture Investors held 62.5% of the outstanding shares of Lifesize, which resulted in a divestiture of the Lifesize video conferencing business by us. The historical results of operations and the financial position of Lifesize are included in the consolidated financial statements of Logitech and are reported as discontinued operations within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We exited our OEM business during our fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2015. The results of our OEM business are included in our financial statements as part of continuing operations for the nine months ended December 31, 2015 and prior periods. There is no revenue or cost associated with our OEM business in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and we do not expect any such revenue or cost in future periods. Industry Overview Historically, Logitech's business has been driven by the same trends that drove the adoption of desktop and laptop PCs for consumers, businesses and institutional applications, including the growth in affordable processing power, communications bandwidth, the increased accessibility of digital content, and the growing and pervasive use of the Internet for productivity, communication and entertainment. These trends have created opportunities for new applications, new users and dramatically richer interaction between people and digital content. In the last several years, the PC market has changed dramatically and there continues to be weakness in the global market for new PCs. Traditionally, the trends in the PC market have dictated sales in our PC-related categories however the aging installed base is creating new opportunities for users to refresh their computing experience with new peripherals. The gaming platform continues to show strong growth as online gaming and multi-platform experiences gain greater popularity. Our Video Collaboration business shows growth with the proliferation of meeting rooms yet to be enabled with HD videoconferencing capabilities. The decline in shipments of new desktop PCs, combined with the increased interest in smaller, touch-interfaced mobile computing devices (such as smartphones and tablets) has rapidly changed the market for PC peripherals. The installed base of PC users is large in our traditional mature markets (the United States, Canada, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia), but we believe consumer demand for new PCs will continue to decline in future years. We do see nonetheless, some opportunities created by consumer desire to refresh their old PC with new peripherals and in new trends developing within the PC and mobile computing markets. As the PC market declined, there has been growth in the popularity of smaller, mobile computing devices, such as tablets and smartphones with touch interfaces, which have created new markets and usage models for mobile peripherals and accessories. Logitech offers peripherals and accessories to enhance the use of such digital platforms. For today's consumers, listening to music is a popular entertainment activity, fueled by the growth in smartphones, tablets, music services and internet radio. Consumers are optimizing their audio experiences on their tablets and smartphones with wireless mobile speakers that pair easily with their mobile devices and with in-ear and other headphones. Our mobile speakers and in-ear headphone products target a large and growing market that reflects the increasing popularity of mobile devices for accessing digital music. Additionally, within the music market, consumers are increasingly listening to wireless earphones while they undertake other activities such as athletics. Consumers are also enhancing their tablet experience with a range of keyboards and cases that enable them to create, consume and do more with their tablets conveniently and comfortably. The use of video across multiple platformsPCs, laptops and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphonesis a continuing trend. The video communication industry continues to make progress towards a vision in which people can conduct a video call from any of these platforms to any other platform. The market opportunity to provide innovative, affordable, and easy to use video collaboration products to the millions of small to medium sized meeting rooms lacking video is substantial, and we are well-positioned to take advantage of it. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 4 Table of Contents The trend among businesses and institutions to embrace cloud video conferencing is driving our Video Collaboration category, and offers a long-term growth opportunity for Logitech. For businesses and institutions, video conferencing is increasingly substituted for travel, because of high travel costs as well as the productivity gain that can be achieved by a high-quality face-to-face meeting that does not require travel away from the office. Further, with the increased availability of higher Internet bandwidth, video conferencing is becoming a key component of Unified Communications, which is the integration of communications solutions such as voicemail, e-mail, chat, presentation sharing and live video meetings. The home is also an important place for technological development, particularly as increasing amounts of objects become connected smart home devices such as light bulbs, security locks, thermostats etc. Logitechs line of universal remote controls control electronic devices around the home as well as these other smart devices. Finally, we believe that trends established in consumer technology, such as brand identity, affordability, ease of installation and use, customer support, and design, have become important aspects of the purchase decision when buying a consumer electronics product. These are strengths that we believe Logitech offers in both consumer and enterprise markets. Business Strategy Logitech's foundation for future growth is built on: Powerful design - design experiences that transcend their functional value and are loved by people; Revitalized product creation for existing and new categories; Augment a winning, talented and passionate global team; Outstanding execution and operational excellence; and Delivering operating leverage to improve profitability and to create the capacity to invest in growth. We are focusing our investments in product categories with growth opportunities in which we can leverage our areas of expertise, competitive advantages and technology. Our product development process and responsiveness to consumers have become faster. We laid the foundation in fiscal year 2014 for building a design company that leverages technology, innovation and consumer insights. We are continuing to build on this foundation by making design a more integral part of our product development with the goals of creating fewer but more impactful products while increasing consumer satisfaction. We continually review our product offerings and our strategic direction in light of our profitability targets, competitive conditions, changing consumer trends, and the evolving nature of the interface between the consumer and the digital world. We continue to evaluate and phase out products as part of our ongoing efforts to strengthen our overall portfolio. Our turnaround strategy, which we originally outlined in May 2013, has been a success to date and we continue to transform Logitech into a simpler, faster, growing company. We are focused on design and innovation driving a diverse portfolio of brands and product categories that will deliver both growth and profitability. In addition to exiting our OEM business and divesting our Lifesize video conferencing business, we continue to streamline our overall cost structure through product, overhead and infrastructure cost reductions. The savings from all these actions will be used to offset currency headwinds and invest in future growth. Product Strategy To take advantage of the opportunities we anticipate in the growing digital marketplace, Logitech's product strategy focuses on enabling and enhancing the multiple interfaces for input, navigation, audio and video across the many digital devices used by today's consumers and enterprises in our five large market opportunities. Music Logitech has a solid foundation of audio solutions designed to satisfy consumers' needs for music consumption sourced from a variety of platforms. Our music solutions are focused primarily on Mobile Speakers, including our UE BOOM family of mobile wireless speakers, our Jaybird wireless audio wearables for sports and active lifestyles, and our custom in-ear headphones. We enhance our mobile speakers with related applications that Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 5 Table of Contents allow consumers to control the speakers through their mobile devices, including features such as Double Up and Block Party to combine two or more speakers with double or stereo sound. Gaming Our Gaming strategy is to leverage our deep research and development (R&D) expertise in the areas of PC peripherals and gaming devices to build the most advanced gaming gear on the market. We develop our software development kits, intelligent illumination, G-Key Macros and Arx Control application to better integrate our products with games and provide gamers with differentiated experiences that enhance gameplay. In addition, we sponsor and work closely with eSports athletes to enhance our brand and the quality and functionality of our gaming products. Video Collaboration The market opportunity to provide innovative, affordable, and easy to use video collaboration products to the millions of meeting rooms lacking video (especially so-called huddle rooms), is substantial, and we are well positioned to take advantage of it. Over the past year, we have built momentum with our award winning ConferenceCam family that provides all-in-one video and audio conferencing solutions, including Logitech GROUP, CONNECT, and the CC3000e. Home Logitech's Harmony brand is well recognized as the leader in programmable, performance remote controls for home entertainment, leveraging our proprietary database. We built on this expertise in remote controls and our Harmony brand to develop devices to control the digital home, and Harmony products are now being used by many consumers to control a broad range of their connected home devices. We believe this provides a strong foundation to expand beyond the remote control category and create entirely new product categories dedicated to the smart home. Creativity and Productivity PC/Mac Accessories Logitech continues to provide new, innovative, high-performance PC and Mac computer navigation devices and audio and video products for the large installed base of PC and Mac computers for the consumer and enterprise markets. Tablet & Other Accessories We are focusing on innovating new features and products to provide excellent consumer experience, and on reducing product cycle time to address the evolving market demand and frequent introductions of new devices. We have developed a range of products for the tablet market, for both Apple and Android platforms. We believe there will be additional opportunities for complementary peripherals to enhance consumers' experiences with tablets and other mobile devices. Design and Technological Innovation Logitech seeks to fulfill the increasing demand for interfaces between people and the expanding digital world across multiple platforms and user environments. The interface evolves as platforms, user models and our target markets evolve. As access to digital information has expanded, we have extended our focus beyond the PC to other entry and control points to the internet and digital world, including mobile devices and the meeting room. All of these platforms require interfaces that are customized according to how the devices are used. We believe this expansion of access points provides additional attractive opportunities for Logitech because the relevance and importance of navigation, interaction, video and audio interfaces and applications remain substantially the same across platforms. We recognize that continued investment in product research and development is critical to facilitate innovation of new and improved products and technologies. These products have been earning prestigious design awards and enthusiastic reviews in the media - more than 70 design awards over the past three years. This is an important indication that Logitechs strategic aim to become a design company is working. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 alone, we won five GOOD DESIGN awards, eight iF Design awards and a record for us, nine Red Dot awards. Our research and development expenses for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 were $113.6 million , $108.3 Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 6 Table of Contents million and $112.4 million , respectively. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to research and development, including devices for digital platforms, video communications, wireless technologies, power management, user interfaces and device database management to sustain our competitive position. Logitech is committed to meeting consumer needs for peripheral devices and other kinds of accessories, and believes that design, innovation, value and product quality are important elements in gaining market acceptance and strengthening our market position. Products Logitech designs, manufactures and markets products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms. The large majority of our revenues have historically been derived from sales of our products for use by consumers. Our brand, portfolio management, product definition and engineering teams are responsible for product strategy, technological innovation and development, and for bringing our products to market. Our marketing team is responsible for supporting the Logitech brand, social media, and digital marketing. Our design team provides creative leadership, consumer insights, design direction and management from concept exploration to product and experience execution. Music Mobile Speakers: Our Mobile Speakers category comprises of portable wireless Bluetooth speakers. Our top revenue-generating product during fiscal year 2016 was UE BOOM 2, the 360 portable bluetooth wireless speaker that provides bold, immersive sound in every direction. The UE BOOM 2 was a key driver for success in this product category along with the UE MEGABOOM, a 360 portable, waterproof, bluetooth wireless speaker with more bass that is a larger and more powerful complement to UE BOOM 2 and was one of our best selling products in fiscal year 2016. We also offer the UE Roll, the UE Mini Boom and UE Pro. Audio-PC & Wearables: category comprises PC speakers, PC headsets, in-ear headphones and premium wireless audio wearables designed to enhance the audio experience. We offer both the Jaybird wireless audio wearable for sports and active lifestyles and our custom in-ear headphones. Gaming Logitech offers a full range of dedicated gaming gear for gamers, including mice, keyboards, headsets, gamepads and steering wheels. Some of our products in this category include: The Logitech G810 Orion Spectrum Mechanical Gaming Keyboard, features Romer-G switches, intelligent RGB illumination, and a wide range of options to customize colors and profiles. The Logitech G933 Wireless Gaming Headset, offers high-performance 7.1 channel Dolby and DTS surround sound, a lag-free 2.4 GHz wireless connection, and three customizable G keys for one-touch command over music, chat, lighting and other features. The Logitech G900 Chaos Spectrum Gaming Mouse, features professional grade wireless technology, an advanced optical gaming sensor, a flexible ambidextrous design, and customizable lighting, for maximum performance and comfort over long gameplay sessions. The Logitech G920 Driving Force Steering Wheel, features a powerful dual-motor force feedback transmission, hand-stitched leather-wrapped rim, and stainless steel throttle, brake and clutch pedals for an ultra-realistic driving experience. Video Collaboration The Video Collaboration category includes Logitechs ConferenceCams, which combine enterprise-quality audio and HD 1080p video with affordability to bring video conferencing to business of any size. Our key products in this category include: The recently launched Logitech ConferenceCam Group offers best-in-class videoconferencing with HD 1080p video and professional audio that easily turns medium to large sized conference rooms into video-enabled collaboration rooms. The Logitech ConferenceCam Connect is a portable, all-in-one video conference solution with HD 1080p video, and professional audio designed for huddle rooms. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 7 Table of Contents Home Our Smart Home category includes our Harmony line of advanced home entertainment controllers and new products dedicated to controlling emerging categories of connected smart home devices such as lighting, thermostats, door locks, etc. Examples include: The Logitech Harmony Elite and the Logitech Harmony Companion, both of which feature Logitech's Harmony Hub and Harmony Smartphone App to complete control of the home entertainment system including Bluetooth and IP devices such as PS4 and Roku as well as connected home devices such as Philips Hue lights and Nest thermostats. The Logitech Harmony 350, 650 and 950 remotes, offer infrared (IR) only control of home entertainment devices. Creativity and Productivity Pointing devices: Logitech offers a variety of pointing devices, sold through retail channels. Some of our key products in this category include: The Logitech MX Master Wireless mouse is our flagship wireless mouse that is the new paradigm for precise, fast, comfortable computer navigation. The Logitech Wireless Mouse M325 offers micro-precise scrolling with a feel-good, contoured design. The Logitech Wireless Mouse M185 is a wireless mouse with nano receiver technology that is compatible with any computer. Keyboards & Combos: Logitech offers a variety of corded and cordless keyboards, living room keyboards, and combos (keyboard-and-mouse combinations). Some of our products in this category include: The Logitech Wireless Touch Keyboard K400 Plus is a compact keyboard with an integrated touchpad and 10-meter wireless range, designed for use in the living room. The Logitech Combo MK270 offers a wireless compact mouse and keyboard with nano technology. The Logitech Combo MK520 is a sleek full size keyboard and mouse combination with unifying receiver. Tablet & Other Accessories: Our Tablet & Other Accessories category includes keyboards and covers for tablets and smartphones as well as other accessories for mobile devices, mostly iPads but also for select Samsung tablets. We expect to continue to enhance this category through the introduction of additional innovative and complementary products. Some of our products in this category include : The Logitech CREATE Backlit Keyboard Case with Smart Connector for iPad Pro 12.9-inch provides thin and light front and back protection, full size 19 mm keys, and adjustable backlighting. The Logitech Type-S, a keyboard case for the Samsung Galaxy Tab A 9.7, Samsung Galaxy Tab. The Logitech Keys-To-Go, an ultra-portable, stand-alone keyboard. PC Webcams: Our PC Webcams category comprises of PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers. Our top revenue-generating webcams during fiscal year 2016 was the Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920, which offers razor-sharp HD 1080p video recordings and stereo sound. Competitive Strengths We believe the key competitive strengths that enable Logitech to achieve success are: Our innovation capability, including understanding of product development, technology and industrial design excellence as an emerging strength, eight of our products have been selected as 2016 iF DESIGN AWARD Winners, in addition to our patent portfolio of over 670 patents. Our expertise in key engineering disciplines that underlie our products, and our continued enhancement of our products through the use of advanced technologies. Our designs have an everyday place in people's lives, connecting them to the digital experiences they care about. The Logitech and Ultimate Ears (UE) brand names are recognized worldwide as symbols of product quality, innovation, ease of use and price-performance value. Our recently acquired Jaybird brand is a leader in wireless audio wearables for sports and active lifestyles. Our hybrid model of in-house manufacturing and third-party contract manufacturers, which allows us to effectively respond to rapidly changing demand and leverage economies of scale. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 8 Table of Contents Our supply chain's extensive global reach, key distribution and strategic business relationships combined with extensive analytic modeling expertise, optimization tools and global processes. Our global presence, capable of drawing on the strengths of our global resources, global distribution system and geographic revenue mix. Our expertise in developing products for broad array of platforms gear such as PC, Mac, and Apple and Android mobile devices. Our extensive retail and e-tail presence across consumer electronics, mass merchandisers and office infrastructures. We believe that we have competed successfully based on these factors. We believe that Logitech's future lies with our ability to continue to capitalize on these strengths. Marketing and Design Logitech's Design and Marketing team strives to understand consumers so that we can innovate, create and deliver amazing design to our users at each and every touch point of the consumer experience with the Logitech and UE brands and products. We believe that by creating products that people desire and love, we maximize the number of consumers who actively buy and recommend Logitech products, fueling brand preference within and across our many product categories. We are making good progress building a strong internal Design and Marketing team, while partnering with world renowned design agencies to further our design-led approach to product development and launch. Our key design centers are in Switzerland, Ireland, the United States, and Taiwan. Sales and Distribution Principal Markets Net sales to unaffiliated customers by geographic region for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 (based on the customers' location) are as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2016 2015 2014 Americas $ 881,379 $ 864,761 $ 799,431 EMEA 645,694 670,890 724,671 Asia Pacific 491,027 469,257 483,926 $ 2,018,100 $ 2,004,908 $ 2,008,028 Revenues from sales to customers in Switzerland, our home domicile, represented 2% of our total consolidated net sales in each of fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . In fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , the United States represented 38% , 36% and 34% of our total consolidated net sales, respectively. No other single country represented more than 10% of our total consolidated net sales for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . Sales and Distribution Our sales and marketing activities are organized into three geographic regions: Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Asia Pacific (China, Japan, Australia, Taiwan, India and other countries). We primarily sell our products to a network of distributors and retailers. We support these channels with third-party distribution centers located in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Some of these distribution centers perform product localization with local language manuals, packaging and power plugs. Logitech directly sells products to distributors and large retailers. Distributors in North America include Ingram Micro, Tech Data Corporation, D&H Distributing, and Synnex Corporation. In Europe, pan-European distributors include Ingram Micro, Tech Data, and Gem Distribution. We also sell to many regional distributors such as Actebis GmbH in Germany and Copaco Dc B.V. in the Netherlands. In Asia, major distributors include Beijing Digital China Limited in China, Daiwabo in Japan, and the pan-Asian distributor, Ingram Micro. Our distributor customers typically resell products to retailers, value-added resellers, systems integrators and other distributors with whom Logitech does not have a direct relationship. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 9 Table of Contents In fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , Ingram Micro Inc. and its affiliated entities together accounted 14% , 15% and 15% of our net sales, respectively. In fiscal year 2016 Amazon Inc. and its affiliated entities together accounted for 10% of our net sales. No other customer individually accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during fiscal years 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . The material terms of our distribution agreements with Ingram Micro and its affiliated entities are summarized as follows: The agreements are non-exclusive in the particular territory and contain no minimum purchase requirements. Each agreement may be terminated for convenience at any time by either party. Most agreements provide for termination on 30 days written notice from either party, with two Ingram Micro agreements providing for termination on 90 days notice. We generally offer an allowance for marketing activities equal to a negotiated percentage of sales and volume rebates related to purchase volumes or sales of specific products to specified retailers. These terms vary by agreement. Most agreements allow price protection credits to be issued for on-hand or in-transit new inventory if we, in our sole discretion, lower the price of the product. We grant limited stock rotation return rights, which vary by agreement. The material terms of our distribution agreements with Amazon and its affiliated entities are summarized as follows: Each agreement has a one year term followed by one year automatic renewals. We generally offer an allowance for marketing activities equal to a negotiated percentage of sales through transactions and additional rebates related to sales of specific products to end users. These terms vary by agreement. Most agreements allow price protection credits to be issued for on-hand or in-transit new inventory if we, in our sole discretion, lower the price of the product. We grant limited stock rotation return rights, which vary by agreement. Logitech's products can be purchased in most major retail chains, where we typically have access to significant shelf space. These chains in the U.S. include Best Buy, Wal-Mart, Staples, Office Depot and Target. In Europe, chains include Metro Group (Media-Saturn Group), Carrefour Group, Kesa Electricals, Fnac, and Dixons Stores Group PLC. Logitech products can also be purchased online either directly from Logitech.com or through e-tailers, such as Amazon.com, the websites of our major retail chains noted previously, and others. Logitech products are also carried by business-to-business direct market resellers such as CDW, Insight, Zones, PC Connection, and SHI. Through our operating subsidiaries, we maintain sales offices or sales representatives in approximately 43 countries. Backlog We typically have a relatively small amount of orders at the end of our fiscal periods that we have received but have not shipped, which is referred to as backlog. In our experience, the amount of backlog at any particular fiscal period-end is not a meaningful indication of our future business prospects. Customer Service and Technical Support Our customer service organization provides user technical support, support related to product inquiry, and order support. We support these customer service functions with an outsourced operation that has support centers located in the Philippines, Mexico, and Northern Ireland. Logitech maintains customer service and technical support capabilities in the United States, Canada, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. Customer service and technical personnel provide support services to retail purchasers of products through telephone, e-mail, forums, chat, facsimile and the Logitech Web site. Logitech provides warranties on our branded products that range from one to three years. In Korea, India and China, there are multiple locations where consumers may obtain service for their Logitech products. These locations are managed by a third party logistics provider. Consumers who have purchased Logitech products can visit these locations for product inspection, and return or exchange of products. Within China, there is also a mail-in center to provide these services for more remote locations in China. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 10 Table of Contents Manufacturing Logitech's manufacturing operations consist principally of final assembly and testing. Since 1994, we have had our own manufacturing operations in Suzhou, China, which currently handles approximately half of our total production of products. We continue to focus on ensuring the efficiency of the Suzhou facilities, through the implementation of quality management, automation, process improvements, and employee involvement programs. We outsource the remaining production to contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers located in Asia. Both our in-house and outsourced manufacturing operations are managed by our worldwide operations group. The worldwide operations group also supports the business units and marketing and sales organizations through management of distribution centers, the supply chain, and the provision of technical support, and other services. New product launches, process engineering, commodities management, logistics, quality assurance, operations management and management of Logitech's contract manufacturers occur in Hsinchu, Taiwan, Malaysia, Suzhou, China, Shenzhen, China and Hong Kong, China. Certain components are manufactured to Logitech's specifications by vendors in Asia, the United States and Europe. We also use contract manufacturers to supplement internal capacity and to reduce volatility in production volumes. In addition, some products, including most keyboards, certain gaming devices, certain audio products are manufactured by third-party suppliers to Logitech's specifications. Retail product localization with local language manuals, packaging, and power plugs may be performed at distribution centers in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Our hybrid model of in-house manufacturing and third-party contract manufacturers allows us to effectively respond to rapidly changing demand and leverage economies of scale. Through our high-volume manufacturing operations located in Suzhou, China, we believe we have been able to maintain strong quality process controls and have realized significant cost efficiencies. Our Suzhou operation provides for increased production capacity, manufacturing know-how, IP protection and greater flexibility in responding to product demand. Further, by outsourcing the manufacturing of certain products, we seek to reduce volatility in production volumes as well as improve time to market. Competition Our product categories are characterized by large, well-financed competitors, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets. We have experienced aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by some retail customers known as house brands. We may also encounter more competition if any of our competitors in one or more categories decide to enter other categories in which we currently operate. As we target opportunities in new categories and markets, we are confronting new competitors, many of which may have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories, as well as future ones we might enter. Many of these companies have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. We expect continued competitive pressure in our business, including in the terms and conditions that our competitors offer customers, which may be more favorable than our terms and conditions, and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins. Music Mobile Speakers: Our competitors for Bluetooth wireless speakers include Bose, JBL, Harman Kardon, and Beats. Bose is our largest competitor. Apple's ownership of Beats may impact our access to shelf space in Apple retail stores and adversely impact our ability to succeed in this important growth market. Personal assistance and other devices that offer music, such as Amazon's Echo, may also compete with our products. Amazon is also a significant distributor for our products. Audio-PC & Wearables: In the PC speakers business, our competitors include Bose, Cyber Acoustics, Phillips and Creative Labs, Inc. In the PC headset business, our main competitors include Plantronics and Altec Lansing. In-ear headphones competitors include Skull Candy, Sennheiser, Sony, Beats, and others. Gaming Competitors for our Gaming products include Razer USA Ltd., SteelSeries, and Turtle Beach. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 11 Table of Contents Video Collaboration Our competitors for Video Collaboration products include Cisco Systems, Inc., Polycom, Inc., and Avaya, Inc. Home Direct competitors in the remote control market include pro-installer-focused Universal Remote Control Inc., and new DIY entrants from Savant Systems and Ray Enterprises. Indirect competition exists in the form of low-end replacement remotes such as Sony, RCA, GE, pure app-based solutions such as Peel, as well as device and/or subscriber-specific solutions from TV makers such as Samsung and Vizio and multiple-system operator (MSOs) such as Comcast and DirecTV. Competition in the home control market exists in form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with their Echo product, Nest (owned by Google), Wink and many other startups in the space. Many of these products and brands are partners with Logitech as well via integrations with Harmony remotes. Creativity and Productivity Pointing Devices: Microsoft Corporation and Hewlett Packard are our main competitors. We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands, which we believe have impacted our market share in some sales geographies. Keyboards & Combos: Microsoft Corporation, Hewlett Packard and Apple Inc. are our main competitors in our PC mice and keyboard product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless mice and combos from less-established brands, including house brands. Tablet & Other Accessories: Competitors in the tablet case market include Apple, Otter, Speck and a large number of small brands. Competitors in the tablet keyboard market are Zagg, Kensington, Belkin, Targus and other less-established brands. Although we are the leaders in the tablet keyboard market and continue to bring innovative offerings to the market, we expect the competition may increase. PC Webcams: Our primary competitors for PC webcams are Microsoft Corporation and Hewlett Packard. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Intellectual property rights that apply to Logitech's products and services include patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. While we believe that patent protection is important, we also believe that patents are of less competitive significance than factors such as technological expertise and innovation, ease of use, and quality design. No single patent is in itself essential to Logitech as a whole. From time to time we receive claims that we may be infringing on patents or other intellectual property rights of others. As appropriate, claims are referred to counsel, and current claims are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for certain intellectual property rights. Refer also to the discussion in Item 1A, Risk Factors"We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products." and "Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could adversely affect our business." To distinguish genuine Logitech products from competing products and counterfeit products, Logitech has used, registered, or applied to register certain trademarks and trade names in the U.S. and in other countries and jurisdictions. Logitech enforces its trademark and trade name rights in the U.S. and in other countries. In addition, the software for Logitech's products and services is entitled to copyright protection, and we generally require our customers to obtain a software license before providing them with that software. We also protect details about our products and services as trade secrets through employee training, license and non-disclosure agreements, technical measures and other reasonable efforts to preserve confidentiality. Environmental Regulation We are subject to laws and regulations in many jurisdictions regulating the materials used in our products and, increasingly, product-related energy consumption, and the recycling of our products, batteries and packaging. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 12 Table of Contents Europe. In Europe we are subject to the European Union's (EU's) RoHS (Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronics Equipment) Directive 2011/65/EU, or RoHS 2. This directive restricts the placement into the EU market of electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium, and halogenated flame-retardants. All Logitech products are covered by the directive and have been modified, if necessary, to be RoHS 2 compliant. Logitech has an active program to ensure compliance with the RoHS 2 directive and to ensure RoHS 2 compliant components and manufacturing methods in order to comply with the requirements of the directive including issuing of a declaration of conformity and marking the product with the 'CE' mark. Logitech is also subject to the EU's ErP (Energy-related Products) Directive, which aims to encourage manufacturers and importers to produce products designed to minimize overall environmental impact. Under the Directive, manufacturers must ensure that their energy-related products comply with applicable requirements, issue a declaration of conformity and mark the product with the 'CE' mark. The Directive does not have binding requirements for specific products, but does define conditions and criteria for setting, through subsequent implementing measures, requirements regarding environmentally relevant product characteristics. To date the following implementing measures within the ErP Directive are active and applicable to Logitech products: 1275/2008: Eco-design requirements for standby and off mode electric power consumption of electrical and electronic household and office equipment. 278/2009: Eco-design requirements for no-load condition power consumption and average active efficiency of external power supplies. Logitech has assessed the applicability of implementing these measures on relevant product lines and has taken steps to ensure that our products meet the requirements. Adoption of the ErP Directive will be aligned in all EU member states, and we expect conformity will be demonstrated by Logitech in conjunction with current CE conformity marking requirements. Similar requirements exist in the four member states of the European Free Trade Association (Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland). Such requirements are substantially met by compliance with the ErP Directive. We are also subject to a number of EOL (End of Life) Stewardship directives including the EU's WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Directive, the EU Packaging Directive and the EU Battery Directive, which require producers of electrical goods, packaging and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Where applicable, we have provided for the estimated costs, which are not material, of managing and recycling historical and future waste equipment, packaging and batteries. Logitech has also assessed the applicability of the European REACH Directive (Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restrictions of Chemicals). Logitech is not subject to aspects of this Directive which relate to chemical substance import and control due to our current manufacturing structure. The aspect of this Directive that relates to product content does impact Logitech, and we have taken steps to ensure that all substances of very high concern (on a list of candidate substances for authorization that is published on the EU Agency-Web site) present in products above a concentration limit are eliminated in subsequent product designs or notified per the Directive requirements. Additions to this list of candidate substances are reviewed on a regular basis to give consideration to any updates to the substances of very high concern (SVHC) list performed by the relevant EU agency. China. In China we are subject to China's law on Management Methods on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products (China RoHS). This is substantially similar to the EU RoHS Directive, and as such, Logitech products are already compliant. China RoHS requires additional labeling of product that will be shipped in China and Logitech has taken steps to help ensure we comply with these requirements. United States and Canada. In the U.S., we are subject to, among other laws, Appliance Efficiency Regulations adopted via the U.S. Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products within the scope of the regulations, which includes some of Logitech's products. The standards apply to appliances sold or offered for sale throughout the U.S., and Logitech has redesigned or changed products to comply with these regulations. We are also subject to California's Proposition 65, which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the state of California to be dangerous. Logitech is also subject to the requirement as set out by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, specifically Section 1502, which addresses the use of "Conflict Minerals" in the supply chain. We have established systems which facilitate our compliance with the sourcing and traceability obligations and the reporting requirements of this Act aligned with guidelines published by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 13 Table of Contents As an EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) member, Logitech is participating in the industry-wide Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative and its Conflict Free Smelter Program by which these requirements will be met. In addition, the Transparency in Supply Chain Act of 2010 (S.B. 657) is effective from Logitech's fiscal year 2012. The law requires all retailers and manufacturers of tangible products who do business in California and have annual worldwide gross receipts exceeding $100 million to disclose on their company websites their efforts to combat forced labor and human trafficking in their own supply chains. Logitech's disclosure is posted on our Web site, www.logitech.com. In Canada and the United States, we are subject to laws in various Canadian provinces and U.S. states that impose fees to cover the cost of end of life responsible disposal and recycling of packaging, product and batteries. These laws require producers of electrical goods, packaging and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Where applicable, we have provided for the estimated costs, which are not material, of managing and recycling historical and future waste equipment, packaging and batteries. Australia and New Zealand. In Australia and New Zealand, we are subject to the MEPS (Minimum Energy Performance Standards) regulations. These regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products within the scope of the regulations, which includes some of Logitech's products. We have taken steps to modify products to ensure they are in compliance with MEPS. We expect further laws governing product and packaging recycling to be introduced in other jurisdictions, many or most of which could impose fees to cover recycling costs, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. If such legislation is enacted in other countries, Logitech intends to develop compliance programs as necessary. However, until that time, we are not able to estimate any possible impact. The effects on Logitech's business of complying with other government regulations are limited to the cost of agency fees and testing, as well as the time required to obtain agency approvals. There are also stewardship costs associated with the end of life collection, recycling and recovery of Logitech products, packaging and batteries where Logitech is recognized as the steward and participates in relevant programs. The costs and schedule requirements are industry requirements and therefore do not represent an undue burden relative to Logitech's competitive position. As regulations change, we will modify our products or processes to address those changes. Seasonality Our product sales are typically seasonal. Sales are generally highest during our third fiscal quarter (October to December) primarily due to the increased demand for our products during the year-end holiday buying season. Due to the timing of our new product introductions, we believe that year-over-year comparisons are more indicative of variability in our results of operations than current quarter to prior quarter comparisons. Materials We purchase certain products and key components used in our products from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers goes out of business, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our shipments to our customers could be delayed. In addition, lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, our ability to forecast product demand, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs. Employees As of March 31, 2016 we employed approximately 5,900 regular employees, of which approximately 3,250 employees are in our Suzhou manufacturing facility, and from the remaining 2,650 regular employees, approximately 600 are dedicated to research and development. None of Logitech's U.S. employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Certain other countries, such as China, provide by law for employee rights, which include requirements similar to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 14 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of March 31, 2016 : Name Age Nationality Position Guerrino De Luca 63 Italian and U.S. Executive Chairman of the Board Bracken Darrell 53 U.S. President and Chief Executive Officer Vincent Pilette 44 Belgian Chief Financial Officer Marcel Stolk 48 Dutch Sr. Vice President, Consumer Computing Platforms Business Group L. Joseph Sullivan 62 U.S. Sr. Vice President, Worldwide Operations Guerrino De Luca has served as Chairman of the Logitech Board of Directors since 2008. Mr. De Luca served as Chief Executive Officer from April 2012 to January 2013 and acting President and Logitech's Chief Executive Officer from July 2011 to April 2012. Previously, Mr. De Luca served as Logitech's President and Chief Executive Officer from February 1998, when he joined the Company, to January 2008. He has been an executive member of the Board of Directors since June 1998. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. De Luca served as Executive Vice President of Worldwide Marketing for Apple Computer, Inc., a consumer electronics and computer company, from February 1997 to September 1997, and as President of Claris Corporation, a U.S. personal computing software vendor, from May 1994 to February 1997. Prior to joining Claris, Mr. De Luca held various positions with Apple in the United States and in Europe. Mr. De Luca holds a Laurea degree in Electronic Engineering from the University of Rome, Italy. Bracken Darrell joined Logitech as President in April 2012 and became Chief Executive Officer in January 2013. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Darrell served as President of Whirlpool EMEA and Executive Vice President of Whirlpool Corporation, a home appliance manufacturer and marketing company, from January 2009 to March 2012. Previously, Mr. Darrell had been Senior Vice President, Operations of Whirlpool EMEA from May 2008 to January 2009. From 2002 to May 2008, Mr. Darrell was with P&G (The Procter & Gamble Company), a consumer brand company, most recently as the President of its Braun GmbH subsidiary. Prior to rejoining P&G in 2002, Mr. Darrell served in various executive and managerial positions with General Electric Company from 1997 to 2002, with P&G from 1991 to 1997, and with PepsiCo Inc. from 1987 to 1989. Mr. Darrell holds a BA degree from Hendrix College and an MBA from Harvard University. Vincent Pilette joined Logitech in September 2013 as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Pilette served as Chief Financial Officer of Electronics for Imaging, Inc., a digital printing innovation and solutions company, from January 2011 through August 2013. From January 2009 through December 2010, he served as Vice President of Finance for the Enterprise Server, Storage and Networking Group at Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). Prior to this role, Mr. Pilette served as Vice President of Finance for the HP Software Group from December 2005 through December 2008. Mr. Pilette held various other finance positions at HP, in the U.S and Europe, Middle East and Africa, since joining HP in 1997. Mr. Pilette holds an MS in Engineering and Business from Universit Catholique de Louvain in Belgium and an MBA from Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. Marcel Stolk joined Logitech in March 2011 as Vice President, Sales and Marketing EMEA and Executive Managing Director EMEA, and was appointed Senior Vice President, Consumer Computing Platforms Business Group in January 2013. Previously, Mr. Stolk was the Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing at Logitech, from March 2001 to October 2005, and held a number of positions within the sales and marketing functions at Logitech from 1991 to 2001. Prior to rejoining Logitech in 2011, he was the Chief Executive Officer of SourceTag BV, a software company for unique tagging of Cloud-based data, from September 2010 to March 2011. Mr. Stolk has also been the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Adoria Investments BV, a private equity company, from October 2005 to July 2010, and he remains the sole owner. Before joining Logitech in 1991, Mr. Stolk held various sales and product marketing positions at Aashima Technology BV, a provider of PC components and accessories, in the Netherlands. Mr. Stolk studied at Utrecht in the Netherlands and has participated in university-level executive courses, including an executive training course at Stanford University. L. Joseph Sullivan joined Logitech in October 2005 as Vice President, Operations Strategy, and was appointed Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations in April 2006. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Sullivan was Vice President of Operational Excellence and Quality for Carrier Corporation, a subsidiary of United Technologies, from 2001 to 2005. Previously, he was with ACCO Brands, Inc. in engineering and manufacturing management roles from 1998 Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 15 Table of Contents to 2001. Mr. Sullivan holds a BS degree in Marketing Management and an MBA degree in Operations Management from Suffolk University in Massachusetts. Available Information Our Investor Relations Web site is located at http://ir.logitech.com. We post and maintain an archive of our earnings and other press releases, current reports, annual and quarterly reports, earnings release schedule, information regarding annual general meetings, further information on corporate governance, and other information regarding the Company on the Investor Relations Web site. The information we post includes filings we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, our proxy statement related to our annual shareholders' meeting and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to U.S. securities laws or Swiss laws. All such filings and information are available free of charge on the Web site, and we make them available on the Web site as soon as reasonably possible after we file or furnish them with the SEC. The contents of these Web sites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and our references to these Web sites are intended to be inactive textual references only. In addition, Logitech publishes press releases upon occurrence of significant events within Logitech. Shareholders and members of the public may elect to receive e-mails when Logitech issues press releases upon occurrence of significant events within Logitech or other press releases by subscribing through http://ir.logitech.com/alerts.cfm. As a Swiss company traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange, and as a company subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we file reports on transactions in Logitech securities by members of Logitech's Board of Directors and executive officers. The reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 3, 4 and 5, along with our other SEC filings, may be accessed on our Web site or on the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site at http://www.sec.gov, and the reports we file that are published by the SIX Swiss Exchange may be accessed at: http://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/obligations/management_transactions_en.html. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in results may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict due to the nature of the markets in which we compete, fluctuating user demand, the uncertainty of current and future global economic conditions, and for many other reasons, including the following: Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. A significant portion of our quarterly retail sales typically occurs in the last weeks of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting quarterly revenues and profitability. Our sales are impacted by consumer demand and current and future global economic conditions, and can therefore fluctuate abruptly and significantly during periods of uncertain economic conditions or geographic distress, as well as from shifts in distributor inventory practices and consumer buying patterns. We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders, because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 we had substantially completed the implementation of our turnaround strategy that began in fiscal year 2013. As part of our turnaround strategy, we have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 16 Table of Contents attempt to expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories. We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, making our results difficult to predict. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, our results may be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our shares to decline. If we fail to innovate and develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner for our new and existing product categories, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. The success of our product portfolio depends on several factors, including our ability to: Identify new features, functionality and opportunities; Anticipate technology, market trends and consumer preferences; Develop innovative, high-quality, and reliable new products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner; Distinguish our products from those of our competitors; and Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers. If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products that we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may be not competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically. As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 17 Table of Contents products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We believe sales of PCs will continue to decline, and that our future growth will depend on our diversified product growth opportunities beyond the PC, and if we do not successfully execute on our growth opportunities, if our growth opportunities are more limited than we expect or if our sales of PC peripherals are less than we expect, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future. As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets is slowing and in some cases declining and we expect this trend may continue. Our sales of PC peripherals might be less than we expect due to a decline in business or economic conditions in one or more of the countries or regions, a greater decline than we expect in demand for our products, our inability to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons. Global economic concerns, such as the varying pace of global economic recovery, the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, the impact of low oil prices on Russia and conflicts with either local or global financial implications in places such as Russia and Ukraine, and economy slowdown in China, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. As a result, we are focusing more of our attention, which may include the personnel, financial resources, and management attention on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for the consumption of digital music, products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below. Music. We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a continued sales growth area. For example, we recently acquired Jaybird to expand into the wireless audio wearables market. Competition in the mobile speaker and audio wearables categories is intense, and we expect it to increase. If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines, introduce differentiated product and marketing strategies to separate ourselves from competitors, our mobile speaker and audio wearables efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Gaming . We are building a diverse business that features a variety of gaming devices. The rapidly evolving and changing market and increasing competition increase the risk that if we do not allocate our resources in line with the market and our business then our results of operations could be adversely affected. Video Collaboration. While we view the small and medium sized user groups' opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we are developing. If the market opportunity proves to exist, we expect increasing competition from the strong competitors in the video conferencing market as well as potential new entrants. Home . While we are a leader in programmable, performance remote controls for home entertainment, the smart home market is still in its early stages and it is not yet clear when the category will produce dynamic growth or which products will succeed and be able to take advantage of market growth or to help define and grow the market. Despite its early stages, the smart home market already is experiencing increasing competition from strong competitors. In addition to our current growth opportunities, our future growth may be reliant on our ability to identify and develop potential new growth opportunities. This process is inherently risky and will result in investments in time and resources for which we do not achieve any return or value. Each of these growth opportunities is subject to rapidly changing and evolving technologies and may be replaced by new technology concepts or platforms. Some of these growth opportunities are also dependent on Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 18 Table of Contents rapidly changing and evolving consumer preferences with respect to design and features that require calculated risk-taking and fast responsiveness. If we do not develop innovative and reliable products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner that are attractive to consumers in these markets, if we are otherwise unsuccessful entering and competing in these growth opportunities, if the growth opportunities in which we invest our limited resources do not emerge as the opportunities or do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, or if we do not correctly anticipate changes and evolutions in technology and platforms, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The peripherals industry is intensely competitive. Most of our product categories are characterized by large, well-financed competitors, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands. In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions that may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins. In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell, and entered new markets. We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories as well as in future categories we might enter. Many of these companies, such as Microsoft, Apple, Google, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Polycom, Samsung and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Microsoft, Apple and Google are leading producers of operating systems, hardware and applications with which our mice, keyboards and other products are designed to operate. In addition, Microsoft, Apple and Google each has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. As a result, Microsoft, Apple and Google each may be able to improve the functionality of its products, if any, or may choose to show preference to our competitors' products, to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems, hardware and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft, Apple, Google or other competitors with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft, Apple, Google or other competitors may be able to offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and may be financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share. Music Mobile Speakers. Our competitors for Bluetooth wireless speakers include Bose, JBL, Harmon Kardon, and Beats Electronics. Bose is our largest competitor. Apple's ownership of Beats Electronics may impact our access to shelf space in Apple retail stores and adversely impact our ability to succeed in this important growth market. Personal assistance and other devices that offer music, such as Amazon's Echo, may also compete with our products. Amazon is also a significant distributor for our products. Audio-PC & Wearables . In the PC speakers category, our competitors include Bose, Cyber Acoustics, Phillips and Creative Labs, Inc. In the PC headset business, our main competitors include Plantronics and Altec Lansing. In-ear headphones competitors include Skull Candy, Sennheiser, Sony, Beats, and others. Gaming Competitors for our Gaming products include Razer USA Ltd., SteelSeries, and Turtle Beach. Video Collaboration Our competitors for Video Collaboration products include Cisco Systems, Inc., Polycom, Inc., and Avaya, Inc. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 19 Table of Contents Home Remotes . Direct competitors in the remote control market include pro-installer-focused Universal Remote Control Inc., and new DIY entrants from Savant Systems and Ray Enterprises. Indirect competition exists in the form of low-end replacement remotes such as Sony, RCA, GE, pure app-based solutions for smartphones and other mobile devices such as Peel, as well as device and/or subscriber-specific solutions from TV makers such as Samsung and Vizio and MSOs such as Comcast and DirecTV. Home Control . Competition in the home control market exists in form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with their Echo product, Nest (owned by Google), Wink and many other startups in the space. Many of these products and brands are partners with Logitech as well via integrations with Harmony remotes. Creativity and Productivity Pointing Devices. Microsoft Corporation is our main competitor. We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands, which we believe have impacted our market share in some sales geographies. Keyboards & Combo . Microsoft Corporation and Apple Inc. are our main competitors in our keyboard and combo product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for keyboard and combos from less-established brands, including house brands. Tablet & Other Accessories . Competitors in the tablet case market include Apple, Otter, Speck and a large number of small brands. Competitors in the tablet keyboard market are Apple, Zagg, Kensington, Belkin, Targus and other less-established brands. Although we are one of the leaders in the tablet keyboard market and continue to bring innovative offerings to the market, we expect the competition will increase. PC Webcams. Our primary competitors for PC webcams are Microsoft and Hewlett Packard with various other manufacturers taking smaller market share. The worldwide market for consumer PC webcams has been declining, and as a result, fewer competitors have entered the market. Our business depends in part on access to third-party platforms or technologies, and if the access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our peripherals business has historically been built largely around the PC platform, which over time became relatively open, and its inputs and operating system standardized. With the growth of mobile, tablet, gaming and other computer devices, the number of platforms has grown, and with it the complexity and increased need for us to have business and contractual relationships with the platform owners in order to produce products compatible with these platforms. Our product portfolio includes current and future products designed for use with third-party platforms or software, such as the Apple iPad, iPod and iPhone and Android phones and tablets. Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, some of whom are our competitors. Platform owners that are competitors have a competitive advantage in designing products for their platforms and may produce peripherals or other products that work better, or are perceived to work better, than our products in connection with those platforms. As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners. Our access to third-party platforms may require paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins, or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the third-party platforms or technologies used to interact with our product portfolio can be delayed in production or can change without prior notice to us, which can result in our having excess inventory or lower margins. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to access third-party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies are delayed or change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not accurately forecast market demand for our products, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products. Although we receive forecasts from our customers, many are not obligated to purchase the forecasted demand. Also, actual sales volumes for individual products in our retail distribution channel can be volatile due to changes in consumer preferences and other reasons. In addition, our products have short product life cycles, so a failure to accurately predict high demand for a product can result in lost sales that we may not recover in subsequent periods, or higher product costs if we meet demand by paying higher costs for materials, production and delivery. We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space. Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories. If our sales channel partners have excess inventory of our products or decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, they may decrease the amount of products they acquire in subsequent periods, causing disruption in our business and adversely affecting our forecasts and sales. Over the past few years, we have expanded the types of products we sell, and the geographic markets in which we sell them. The changes in our product portfolio and the expansion of our sales markets have increased the difficulty of accurately forecasting product demand. In addition, during fiscal year 2016 we increased the percentage of our products that we manufacture in our own facilities. This increases the inventory that we purchase and maintain to support such manufacturing. We are also utilizing sea shipments more extensively than air delivery, which will cause us to build and ship products to our distribution centers earlier and will also result in increases in inventory. These operational shifts increase the risk that we have excess or obsolete inventory if we do not accurately forecast product demand. We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products. We expect other differences between forecasts and actual demand to arise in the future. If we do not accurately predict product demand, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel. From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions. We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees. In addition, we must carefully balance the size of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows. If we are unable to manage the size of our employee base, particularly engineers, we may fail to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our operating cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, including declines in our stock prices in the past year, may also affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted equity incentives. Logitechs practice has been to provide equity incentives to its employees, but the number of shares available for equity grants is limited. We may find it difficult to provide competitive equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 21 Table of Contents Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce to align our employee base with our business strategy, our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus. We have also experienced turnover in our workforce. These reductions and turnover have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee uncertainty and discontent. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to attract, motivate and retain employees, which could adversely affect our business. Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on multiple factors, which can result in unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Our gross margins can vary due to consumer demand, competition, product life cycle, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, geographic sales mix, currency exchange rates, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. In particular, if we are not able to introduce new products in a timely manner at the product cost we expect, or if consumer demand for our products is less than we anticipate, or if there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react or that are initiated by us to drive sales that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will be less than we project. In addition, our gross margins may vary significantly by product line, sales geography and customer type, as well as within product lines. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected. As we expand within and into new product categories, our products in those categories may have lower gross margins than in our traditional product categories. Consumer demand in these product categories, based on style, color and other factors, tends to be less predictable and tends to vary more across geographic markets. As a result, we may face higher up-front investments, inventory costs associated with attempting to anticipate consumer preferences, and increased inventory write-offs. If we are unable to offset these potentially lower margins by enhancing the margins in our more traditional product categories, our profitability may be adversely affected. The impact of these factors on gross margins can create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares. As we continue our efforts to lower our costs and improve our operating leverage, we may or may not fully realize our goals. Our turnaround strategy over the past three years has been based in part on simplifying the organization, reducing operating costs through global workforce reductions and a reduction in the complexity of our product portfolio, with the goal of better aligning costs with our current business. We restructured our business in fiscal years 2014 through 2016, and we may continue to divest or discontinue non-strategic product categories. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business. In addition, we are continuing the rationalization of our general and administrative expense, infrastructure and indirect procurement to reduce operating expenses. Our ability to achieve the desired and anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these simplification, cost-cutting and restructuring activities, and within our desired and expected timeframes, are subject to many estimates and assumptions, and the actual savings and timing for those savings may vary materially based on factors such as local labor regulations, negotiations with third parties, and operational requirements. These estimates and assumptions are also subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the desired and anticipated benefits from these activities. To the extent that we are unable to improve our financial performance, further restructuring measures may be required in the future. Furthermore, we are expecting to be able to use the anticipated cost savings from these activities to fund and support our current growth opportunities and incremental investments for future growth. If the cost-savings do not materialize as anticipated, or within our expected timeframes, our ability to invest in growth may be limited and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. As part of the restructuring plans, we reduced the size of our product portfolio and the assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category over the past several fiscal years. While we are Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 22 Table of Contents constantly replacing products and are dependent on the success of our new products, this product portfolio simplification has made us even more dependent on the success of the new products that we are introducing. As we focus on growth opportunities, we are divesting or discontinuing non-strategic product categories and pursuing strategic acquisitions and investments, which, if unsuccessful, could have an adverse impact on our business. We continue to review our product portfolio and update our non-strategic product categories and products. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business. If we are unable to effect sales on favorable terms or if realignment is more costly or distracting than we expect or has a negative effect on our organization, employees and retention, then our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Discontinuing products with service components may also cause us to continue to incur expenses to maintain services within the product life cycle or to adversely affect our customer and consumer relationships and brand. In addition, discontinuing product categories, even categories that we consider non-strategic, reduces the size and diversification of our business and causes us to be more dependent on a smaller number of product categories. As we attempt to grow our business in strategic product categories and emerging market geographies, we will consider growth through acquisition or investment. We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities. For example, we recently acquired Jaybird to expand into the wireless audio wearables market. Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and managements attention away from other business issues and opportunities. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could be harmed. Moreover, our acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategic objectives, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as future impairments of intangible assets and goodwill or the recording of stock-based compensation. Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful and have led to impairment charges, including a $122.7 million and $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal years 2015 and 2013, respectively, related to our Lifesize video conferencing business which is reported in discontinued operations. In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours. If these investments are unsuccessful, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business. Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information, changes in distribution partners, practices or models or conflicts among our channels of distribution could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. Our sales channel partners, the distributors and retailers who distribute and sell our products, also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors. If product competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms, have more products available to meet their needs, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, or if our retailer channel partners show preference for their own house brands, our sales channel partners may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to maintain our distribution channels, our business will suffer. As we expand into new product categories and markets in pursuit of growth, we will have to build relationships with new channel partners and adapt to new distribution and marketing models. These new partners, practices and models may require significant management attention and operational resources and may affect our accounting, including revenue recognition, gross margins, and the ability to make comparisons from period to period. Entrenched and more experienced competitors will make these transitions difficult. If we are unable to build successful distribution channels or successfully market our products in these new product categories, we may not be able to take advantage of the growth opportunities, and our business and our ability to effect a turnaround in our business could be adversely affected. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 23 Table of Contents We reserve for cooperative marketing arrangements, direct and indirect customer incentive programs and pricing programs with our sales channel partners. These reserves are based on judgments and estimates, using historical experience rates, inventory levels in distribution, current trends and other factors. There could be significant differences between the actual costs of such arrangements and programs and our estimates. The impact of economic conditions, evolving consumer preferences, and purchasing patterns on our distribution partners, or competition between our sales channels, could result in sales channel disruption. For example, if sales at large retail stores are displaced as a result of bankruptcy, competition from Internet sales channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected. Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms. We use retail sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our direct retailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products. Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third-party nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products. In addition, the customers supplying sell-through data vary by geographic region and from period to period, but typically represent a majority of our retail sales. In addition, we rely on channel inventory data from our retailer and distributor customers. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, or if we do not properly interpret this information, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area. We produce approximately half of our products at facilities we own in China, and we are under progress to increase that percentage in the near future. The majority of our other production is performed by third-party contract manufacturers, including other design manufacturers, in China and Malaysia. Our manufacturing operations in China could be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, strains on Chinas available labor pool, changes in labor costs and other employment dynamics, high turnover among Chinese employees, infrastructure issue, import export issue, currency transfer restriction, natural disasters, conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, labor unrest, and other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of Chinas laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, by increasing labor and other costs, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the local currency in the countries in which manufacturing occurs. Future appreciation of these local currencies could increase our component and other raw material costs. In addition, our labor costs could continue to rise as wage rates increase and the available labor pool declines. These conditions could adversely affect our financial results. We purchase key components and products from a limited number of sources, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers, and optical sensors, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers goes out of business as a result of adverse global economic conditions or natural disasters, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 24 Table of Contents Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Conflict minerals regulations are causing us to incur additional expenses, could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products and could adversely affect the distribution and sales of our products. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to identify and prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. Additional reporting obligations are being considered by the European Union. The implementation of the existing U.S. requirements and any additional requirements in Europe could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, and the implementation of these requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may adversely affect our reputation. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could, if we are unable to satisfy their requirements or pass through any increased costs associated with meeting their requirements place us at a competitive disadvantage, adversely affect our business and operating results, or both. We filed our report for the calendar year 2014 with the SEC on May 29, 2015. If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, we may have insufficient supply of products to meet customer demand, we could lose sales, we may experience a build-up in inventory, or we may incur additional costs. By locating our manufacturing in China and Southeast Asia, we are reliant on third parties to get our products to distributors around the world. Transportation costs, fuel costs, labor unrest, natural disasters and other adverse effects on our ability, timing and cost of delivering products can increase our inventory, decrease our margins, adversely affect our relationships with distributors and other customers and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last weeks of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill customer orders in the quarter. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 25 Table of Contents We conduct operations in a number of countries, and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us. We conduct operations in a number of countries, and have invested significantly in growing our personnel and sales and marketing activities in China and, to a lesser extent, other emerging markets. We may also increase our investments to grow sales in other emerging markets, such as Latin America and Eastern Europe. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; Compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental, tax and anti-corruption laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; Varying laws, regulations and other legal protections, uncertain and varying enforcement of those laws and regulations, dependence on local authorities, and the importance of local networks and relationships; Exposure to political and financial instability, especially with the uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries, which may lead to currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; Lack of infrastructure or services necessary or appropriate to support our products and services; Exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; Difficulties and increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition, including entrenched local competition; Weak protection of our intellectual property rights; Higher credit risks; Changes in VAT (value-added tax) or VAT reimbursement; Imposition of currency exchange controls; Import or export restrictions that could affect some of our products, including those with encryption technology; Delays from customs brokers or government agencies; and A broad range of customs, consumer trends, and more. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Sales growth in China is an important part of our expectations for our business. As a result, if Chinese economic, political or business conditions deteriorate, or if one or more of the risks described above materializes in China, our overall business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to movements in currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. Dollar denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. For fiscal year 2016, approximately 48% of our revenue was in non-U.S. denominated currencies. Weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and earnings. If we raise international pricing to compensate, it could Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 26 Table of Contents potentially reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our sales and potentially having an adverse impact on our market share. Margins on sales of our products in non-U.S. Dollar denominated countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers in non-U.S. Dollar denominated countries could be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to fully offset the U.S. Dollars strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and earnings. Competitive conditions in the markets in which we operate may also limit our ability to increase prices in the event of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Conversely, strengthening of currency rates may also increase our product component costs and other expenses denominated in those currencies, adversely affecting operating results. We further note that a larger portion of our sales than of our expenses are denominated in non-U.S. denominated currencies. We use derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in currency exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place and do not protect us from long term shifts in currency exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, these exposures may change over time. As a company operating in many markets and jurisdictions and expanding into new growth categories, and as a Swiss, dual - listed company, we are subject to risks associated with new, existing and potential future laws and regulations. Based on our current business model and as we expand into new markets and product categories, we must comply with a wide variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, health and safety, hazardous materials usage, product-related energy consumption, packaging, recycling and environmental matters. Our products may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where they are manufactured, sold or both. These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs, and reputational harm and, in severe cases, force us to recall products or prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions. As a Swiss company with shares listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we are also subject to both Swiss and United States corporate governance and securities laws and regulations. In addition to the extra costs and regulatory burdens of our dual regulatory obligations, the two regulatory regimes may not always be compatible and may impose disclosure obligations or operating restrictions on our business to which our competitors and other companies are not subject. For example, on January 1, 2014, subject to certain transitional provisions, the Swiss Federal Council Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation at Public Companies (the Ordinance) became effective in connection with the Minder initiative approved by Swiss voters during 2013. The Ordinance, among other things, (a) requires a binding shareholder say on pay vote with respect to the compensation of members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (b) generally prohibits the making of severance, advance, transaction premiums and similar payments to members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (c) imposes other restrictive compensation practices, and (d) requires that our articles of incorporation specify various compensation-related matters. In addition, during 2013, Swiss voters considered an initiative to limit pay for a chief executive officer to a multiple of no more than twelve times the salary of the lowest-paid employee. Although voters rejected that initiative, it did receive substantial voter support. The Ordinance, potential future initiatives relating to corporate governance or executive compensation, and Swiss voter sentiment in favor of such regulations may increase our non-operating costs and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and members of our Board of Directors. As a result of changes in tax laws, treaties, rulings, regulations or agreements, or their interpretation, of Switzerland or any other country in which we operate, the loss of a major tax dispute or a successful challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries, or other factors, our effective income tax rates may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws, treaties, rulings, regulations Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 27 Table of Contents or agreements in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in managements assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. We are incorporated in the Canton of Vaud in Switzerland and our effective income tax rate benefits from a longstanding ruling from the Canton of Vaud. The tax rules in Switzerland are expected to change in response to certain guidance and demands from both the European Union and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and that could have an adverse effect on our tax ruling and effective income tax rate. Switzerlands implementation of any material change in tax laws or policies or its adoption of new interpretations of existing tax laws and rulings, or changes in our tax ruling from the Canton of Vaud, could result in a higher effective income tax rate on our worldwide earnings and such change could adversely affect our net income. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. We are frequently subject to tax audits, examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries, if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective income tax rate could increase. A material assessment by a governing tax authority could adversely affect our profitability. If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income and cash flows could be adversely affected. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, such as entering new markets and introducing products for tablets, other mobile devices, digital music, and video collaboration. We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets. As we do so, we face an increased risk that claims alleging we infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit of the claims, may increase in number and significance. Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap. This risk is heightened by the increase in lawsuits brought by holders of patents that do not have an operating business or are attempting to license broad patent portfolios and by the increasing attempts by companies in the technology industries to enjoin their competitors from selling products that they claim infringe their intellectual property rights. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. A successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. We might also be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation or the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be granted. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 28 Table of Contents attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation and could impact our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. Significant disruptions in, or breaches in security of, our websites or information technology systems could adversely affect our business. As a consumer electronics company, our websites are an important presentation of our company, identity and brands and an important means of interaction with and source of information for consumers of our products. We also rely on our centralized information technology systems for product-related information and to store intellectual property, forecast our business, maintain financial records, manage operations and inventory, and operate other critical functions. We allocate significant resources to maintain our information technology systems and deploy network security, data encryption and other measures to protect against unauthorized access or misuse. Nevertheless, our websites and information technology systems are susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user error, malfeasance, catastrophes, system or software upgrades, integration or migration, or other foreseeable and unforeseen events. Breaches or disruptions of our websites or information technology systems could adversely affect our brands, reputation or consumer or investor perception of our company, business or products or result in disruptions of our operations, loss of intellectual property or, our customers or our business partners data, reduced value of our investments in our brands, design, research and development or engineering, or costs to address regulatory inquiries or actions or private litigation or to rebuild or restore our websites or information technology systems. The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of user data could give rise to liabilities and additional costs of operation as a result of laws, governmental regulation and risks of security breaches. In connection with certain of our products, we collect data related to our consumers. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and especially in Europe. Government actions are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information and its collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution in or from the governing jurisdiction. In addition, because various jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the use, storage and transmission of such information, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in existing markets as well as new international markets that we seek to enter. The collection of user data heightens the risk of security breaches related to our IT systems and the systems of third-party data storage and other service and IT providers. Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, as well as additional security measures and risk, could subject us to costs, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business. We recently upgraded our worldwide business application suite, and difficulties, distraction or disruptions may interrupt our normal operations and adversely affect our business and operating results. During fiscal years 2014 and 2015, we devoted significant resources to the upgrade of our worldwide business application suite to Oracles version R12. We implemented that upgrade in fiscal year 2016 and will continue to review the success of that implementation during fiscal year 2017. As a result of our transition to the new business application suite, we may experience difficulties with our systems, management distraction, lack of visibility into our business operations and results, and significant business disruptions. Difficulties with our systems may interrupt our normal operations, including our enterprise resource planning, forecasting, demand planning, supply planning, intercompany processes, promotion management, internal financial controls, pricing, and our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers and consumers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run and track our business. For example, the transition has resulted in delays in processing customer claims for claims accruals. In addition, we may need to expend Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 29 Table of Contents significant attention, time and resources to correct problems or find alternative sources for performing these functions. Any such difficulty or disruption may adversely affect our business and operating results. Goodwill impairment charges could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. Goodwill associated with a number of previous acquisitions could result in impairment charges. The slowdown in the overall video conferencing industry together with the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013 resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2013, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations. We recorded an additional impairment charge of goodwill of $122.7 million related to our Lifesize video conferencing discontinued operations in fiscal year 2015, reducing its goodwill to zero, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations again. If we divest or discontinue product categories or products that we previously acquired, or if the value of those parts of our business become impaired, we may need to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 30 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The table below represents our principal locations, their approximate square footage and their purposes as of March 31, 2016 : Location Purpose Approximate Square Footage Ownership Americas: Newark, California Silicon valley campus, research and development, product marketing, sales management, technical support and administration 127,000 Leased Camas, Washington Ultimate Ears Group 44,700 Leased Irvine, California Ultimate Ears Group 13,400 Leased Olive Branch, Mississippi Distribution center 397,000 Contracted (1) Mexico City, Mexico Distribution center 12,800 Contracted (1) Montevideo, Uruguay Distribution center 25,800 Contracted (1) Louveira, Brazil Distribution center 10,312 Contracted (1) EMEA: Lausanne, Switzerland EPFL campus, research and development, product marketing, sales management, technical support and administration 46,700 Leased Cork, Ireland Finance, administration, research and development and design 18,400 Leased Nijmegen, Netherlands Finance, administration and distribution center support 15,000 Leased Oostrum, Netherlands Distribution center 155,600 Contracted (1) Asia Pacific: Suzhou, China High-volume manufacturing and employee dormitory 689,300 Owned Suzhou, China High-volume manufacturing 14,300 Leased Hsinchu, Taiwan Mechanical engineering, new product launches, process engineering, commodities management, logistics, quality assurance and administration 116,400 Leased Hong Kong, China Sales and marketing, research and development, administration and distribution center support 15,300 Leased Shanghai, China Sales and marketing, finance 16,900 Leased Chennai, India Digital Home Group engineering and quality assurance 19,200 Leased Tokyo, Japan Sales and marketing 10,100 Leased Hong Kong, China Distribution center 40,000 Contracted (1) Singapore, Singapore Distribution center 60,000 Contracted (1) Tokyo, Japan Distribution center 27,000 Contracted (1) Shenzhen, China Distribution center 32,000 Contracted (1) Dayuan Township, Taiwan Distribution center 18,100 Contracted (1) _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Contracted through a third-party warehouse management company. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 31 Table of Contents Logitech also contracts with various distribution services throughout the world for additional warehouses in which we store inventory. We also have leased sales offices in approximately 60 locations and 40 countries, with various expiration dates from 2016 to 2020. We believe that Logitech's manufacturing and distribution facilities are adequate for our ongoing needs and we continue to evaluate the need for facilities to meet current and anticipated future requirements. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time-to-time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors. Any failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect our business. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None . Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 32 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Logitech's shares are listed and traded on both the SIX Swiss Exchange, where the share price is denominated in Swiss francs, and on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, where the share price is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The trading symbol for Logitech shares is LOGN on the SIX Swiss Exchange and LOGI on Nasdaq. As of May 6, 2016 , there were 173,106,620 shares issued (including 11,357,739 shares held as treasury stock) held by 13,813 holders of record, and the closing price of our shares was CHF 14.55 ($15.01 based on exchange rates on such date) per share on the SIX Swiss Exchange and $15.11 per share as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market. SIX Swiss Exchange The following table sets forth certain historical share price information for our shares traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange, as reported by the SIX Swiss Exchange. SIX Swiss Exchange High CHF Low CHF Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2016 First quarter 15.20 12.70 Second quarter 14.20 12.15 Third quarter 15.70 12.30 Fourth quarter 16.45 13.40 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2015 First quarter 13.80 11.00 Second quarter 13.95 11.15 Third quarter 14.60 10.75 Fourth quarter 14.25 11.60 Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 33 Table of Contents Nasdaq Global Select Market The following table sets forth certain historical share price information for our shares traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Nasdaq Global Select Market High Low Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2016 First quarter $ 16.25 $ 13.13 Second quarter 14.87 12.79 Third quarter 15.73 12.58 Fourth quarter 16.56 13.48 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2015 First quarter $ 15.46 $ 12.34 Second quarter 15.35 12.56 Third quarter 15.00 11.51 Fourth quarter 15.21 12.50 Dividends Under Swiss law, a corporation may only pay dividends upon a vote of its shareholders. This vote typically follows the recommendation of the corporation's Board of Directors. In March 2015, we announced a plan to pay $250.0 million in cumulative dividends for fiscal year 2015 through fiscal year 2017. On September 9, 2015, Logitech's shareholders approved a cash dividend payment of CHF 83.1 million out of retained earnings to Logitech shareholders who owned shares on September 21, 2015. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.51 per share ($0.53 per share in U.S. Dollars), totaling $85.9 million in U.S. Dollars on September 22, 2015. On December 18, 2014, Logitech's shareholders approved a cash dividend payment of CHF 43.1 million out of retained earnings to Logitech shareholders who owned shares on December 29, 2014. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.26 per share ($0.27 per share in U.S. Dollars), totaling $43.8 million in U.S. Dollars on December 30, 2014. On September 4, 2013, Logitech's shareholders approved a cash dividend payment of CHF 33.7 million out of retained earnings to Logitech shareholders who owned shares on September 16, 2013. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.21 per share ($0.22 per share in U.S. Dollars), totaling $36.1 million in U.S. Dollars on September 17, 2013. Dividends paid and similar cash or in-kind distributions made by Logitech to a holder of Logitech shares (including dividends or liquidation proceeds and stock dividends), other than distributions of qualifying additional paid-in-capital if it is available under the current Swiss tax regime, are subject to a Swiss federal anticipatory tax at a rate of 35%. The anticipatory tax must be withheld by Logitech from the gross distribution, and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A Swiss resident holder and beneficial owner of Logitech shares may qualify for a full refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from such dividends. A holder and beneficial owner of Logitech shares who is a non-resident of Switzerland, but a resident of a country that maintains a double tax treaty with Switzerland, may qualify for a full or partial refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from such dividends by virtue of the provisions of the applicable treaty between Switzerland and the country of residence of the holder and beneficial owner of the Logitech shares. In accordance with the tax convention between the United States and the Swiss Confederation ("Treaty"), a mechanism is provided whereby a U.S. resident (as determined under the Treaty), and U.S. corporations, other than U.S. corporations having a "permanent establishment" or a fixed base, as defined in the Treaty, in Switzerland, generally can obtain a refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from dividends in respect of Logitech shares, to the extent that 15% of the gross dividend is withheld as final withholding tax (i.e. 20% of the gross dividend may generally be refunded). In specific cases, U.S. companies not having a "permanent establishment" or a fixed base in Switzerland owning at least 10% of Logitech registered shares may receive a refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from dividends to the extent it exceeds 5% of the gross dividend (i.e., 30% of the gross dividend may be refunded). To get the benefit of a refund, holders must beneficially own Logitech shares at the time such dividend becomes due. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 34 Table of Contents Share Repurchases The following table presents certain information related to purchases made by Logitech of its equity securities under its publicly announced share buyback program (in thousands, except per share amounts): Weighted Average Price Per Share Amount Available for Repurchase During Fiscal Year Ended Shares Repurchased CHF USD March 31, 2014 $ 250,000 March 31, 2015 115 14.43 248,337 March 31, 2016 4,951 13.52 14.63 178,298 5,066 In fiscal year 2016, the following approved share buyback programs were in place: Share Buyback Program Shares Approved Amounts March 2014 17,311 $ 250,000 Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 35 Table of Contents Performance Graph The information contained in the Performance Graph shall not be deemed to be "soliciting material" or "filed" with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act. The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares, the Nasdaq Composite Index, and the S&P 500 Information and Technology Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our shares, the Nasdaq Composite Index and the S&P 500 Information and Technology Index on March 31, 2011, and calculates the annual return through March 31, 2016 . The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. ________________________________________ *$100 invested on March 31, 2011 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Copyright 2015 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. March 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Logitech $ 100 $ 43 $ 42 $ 92 $ 83 $ 104 Nasdaq Composite Index $ 100 $ 114 $ 122 $ 160 $ 187 $ 187 S&P 500 Information and Technology Index $ 100 $ 120 $ 119 $ 149 $ 176 $ 191 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data This financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in the future. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 36 Table of Contents Years ended March 31, 2016 (2) 2015 (2) 2014 (2) 2013 (2) 2012 (2) (unaudited) (unaudited) (in thousands, except for per share amounts) Consolidated statement of operations and cash flow data Net sales $ 2,018,100 $ 2,004,908 $ 2,008,028 $ 1,962,237 $ 2,168,742 Cost of goods sold 1,337,053 1,299,451 1,346,489 1,331,579 1,449,489 Gross profit 681,047 705,457 661,539 630,658 719,253 Operating expenses: Marketing and selling 319,015 321,749 322,707 360,245 350,218 Research and development 113,624 108,306 112,446 123,864 129,717 General and administrative 101,548 125,995 112,689 108,480 101,621 Impairment of goodwill and other assets 2,188 Restructuring charges (credits), net (1) 17,802 (4,777 ) 8,001 39,455 Total operating expenses 551,989 551,273 555,843 634,232 581,556 Operating income (loss) 129,058 154,184 105,696 (3,574 ) 137,697 Interest income (expense), net 790 1,197 (431 ) 870 2,634 Other income (expense), net 1,624 (2,298 ) 2,039 (2,139 ) 7,933 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 131,472 153,083 107,304 (4,843 ) 148,264 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 3,110 4,654 1,313 (26,376 ) 21,545 Net income from continuing operations 128,362 148,429 105,991 21,533 126,719 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (9,045 ) (139,146 ) (31,687 ) (249,051 ) (22,482 ) Net income (loss) 119,317 9,283 74,304 (227,518 ) 104,237 Net income (loss) per share - basic: Continuing operations $ 0.79 $ 0.91 $ 0.66 $ 0.14 $ 0.73 Discontinued operations $ (0.06 ) $ (0.85 ) $ (0.20 ) $ (1.58 ) $ (0.13 ) Net income (loss) per share - diluted $ 0.73 $ 0.06 $ 0.46 $ (1.44 ) $ 0.60 Income (loss) per share - diluted: Continuing operations $ 0.77 $ 0.89 $ 0.65 $ 0.14 $ 0.72 Discontinued operations $ (0.05 ) $ (0.83 ) $ (0.19 ) $ (1.57 ) $ (0.13 ) Net income (loss) per share - diluted $ 0.72 $ 0.06 $ 0.46 $ (1.43 ) $ 0.59 Weighted average shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 163,296 163,536 160,619 158,468 174,648 Diluted 165,792 166,174 162,526 159,445 175,591 Cash dividend per share $ 0.53 $ 0.27 $ 0.22 $ 0.85 $ Net cash provided by operating activities $ 183,111 $ 178,632 $ 205,421 $ 122,389 $ 202,534 Net cash used in investing activities $ (60,690 ) $ (48,289 ) $ (46,803 ) $ (57,723 ) $ (57,602 ) March 31, 2016 2015 2014 (3) 2013 (3) 2012 (3) Consolidated balance sheet data Cash and cash equivalents $ 519,195 $ 533,380 $ 467,518 $ 331,498 $ 474,961 Total assets $ 1,324,147 $ 1,426,680 $ 1,451,390 $ 1,382,333 $ 1,858,009 Total shareholders' equity $ 759,948 $ 758,134 $ 804,128 $ 721,953 $ 1,131,791 Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 37 Table of Contents _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) During Fiscal year 2016, we incurred restructuring charges of $17.8 million related to the restructuring plan we implemented in fiscal 2016. The $4.8 million in restructuring credits during fiscal year 2015 were related to restructuring plans we implemented in fiscal year 2014. The $8.0 million and $39.5 million in restructuring costs during fiscal years 2014 and 2013 were related to restructuring plans we implemented in fiscal years 2014 and 2013. (2) On December 28, 2015, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and, as a result, we have reflected the Lifesize video conferencing business as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations and, as such, the results of that business have been excluded from all line items of statements of operations other than Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes for all periods presented. (3) The above condensed consolidated cash and cash equivalents exclude Lifesize video conferencing business which is presented as discontinued operations. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations" to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K | 38 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth above in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and below in Item 7A,