Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Overview, Critical Accounting Estimates and Liquidity and Capital Resources, among others. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or "SEC." You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences. More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal computer (PC) platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating digital content such as computing, gaming, video and music, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud. Logitech's brands include Logitech, Logitech G, ASTRO Gaming, Streamlabs, Ultimate Ears, Jaybird, and Blue Microphones. Our Company's website is www.logitech.com. Logitech was founded in Switzerland in 1981, and Logitech International S.A. has been the parent holding company of Logitech since 1988. Logitech International S.A. is a Swiss holding company with its registered office in Apples, Switzerland, which conducts its business through subsidiaries in the Americas (including North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Asia Pacific (including, among other countries, China, Taiwan, Japan, India and Australia). Shares of Logitech International S.A. are listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange, under the trading symbol LOGN, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, under the trading symbol LOGI. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the "Company," "Logitech," "we," "our," and "us" refer to Logitech International S.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We operate in a single operating segment: Peripherals. For more information about segments and geographic areas, please refer to Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our products participate in five large markets: Creativity & Productivity, Gaming, Video Collaboration, Music and Smart Home. We sell our products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors. Our worldwide channel network includes consumer electronics distributors, retailers, mass merchandisers, specialty stores, computer and telecommunications stores, value-added resellers and online merchants. Acquisitions On October 31, 2019, we acquired all equity interests of General Workings, Inc. (Streamlabs) for a total consideration of $105.7 million , which included a working capital adjustment, plus additional contingent consideration of $29.0 million payable in stock only upon the achievement of certain net revenues for the period beginning on January 1, 2020 and ending on June 30, 2020 (the Streamlabs Acquisition). Streamlabs is a leading provider of software and tools for professional streamers. The Streamlabs Acquisition is complementary to our gaming portfolio. On August 21, 2018, we acquired all equity interests in Blue Microphones Holding Corporation (Blue Microphones) for a total consideration of $134.8 million in cash, which included a working capital adjustment and repayment of debt on behalf of Blue Microphones (the Blue Microphones Acquisition). Blue Microphones is a leading audio manufacturer that designs and produces microphones, headphones, recording tools, and accessories for audio professionals, musicians and consumers. The Blue Microphones Acquisition supplements our product portfolio. Industry Overview Historically, Logitech's business has been driven by the same trends that drove the adoption of desktop and laptop PCs for consumers, businesses and institutional applications, including the growth in affordable processing power, communications bandwidth, the increased accessibility of digital content, and the growing and pervasive use of the Internet for productivity, communication and entertainment. More recently, the democratization of content creation, the rising trend of electronic sports (esports), the growth of streamers and creators and the expansion of video everywhere have created multiple opportunities for Logitech to drive greater interaction and engagement between people and digital content. In the last several years, new PC shipments have stagnated and, combined with increased interest in smaller, mobile computing devices (such as smartphones and tablets), the market for PC peripherals has rapidly changed. We see opportunities within the large installed base of PCs, created by consumers' desire to refresh their current PCs with new peripherals, as well as new trends developing within the connected device ecosystems. In addition, Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 3 Table of Contents the refresh of operating systems and new use cases created by the growth of specific cloud-based services and applications drive new peripherals opportunities. Consumers are also enhancing their tablet experience with a range of keyboards and cases that enable them to create, consume and do more with their tablets conveniently and comfortably. Growing adoption of cloud-based experiences in gaming, video, music and smart home has expanded our addressable market opportunities. More and more consumers today interact with cloud-based content platforms, such as Steam and Twitch for gaming or Zoom and Microsoft Teams for video collaboration. Logitech offers peripherals and accessories to enhance the use of such cloud-based content platforms. In the gaming market, the rapid rise of esports and the growth of live streamers on platforms such as Twitch and broadcasters on platforms such as YouTube continue to drive growth. We leverage our deep research and development (R&D) capabilities in the area of PC peripherals to develop industry-leading gaming gear that enhances consumers' overall gaming experience and performance. As consumers increasingly watch various esports tournaments or other gaming broadcasts on cloud-based platforms such as Twitch, the gaming industry is becoming both a source of entertainment and participation by mainstream consumers. We sponsor and work closely with esports athletes to improve our brand and the quality and functionality of our gaming products. We also offer gaming peripherals that enhance the experience of more casual gamers. The adoption of video everywhere - in large and small conference rooms and at home -- is a continuing trend that has accelerated during the COVID-19 pandemic. The video communication industry continues to make progress toward a vision in which people can conduct a video call from any of a variety of platforms - video-enabled rooms, PCs, laptops and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones - to any other platform. This trend to embrace cloud video conferencing by businesses and institutions and, in particular, the growing adoption of remote work, distance learning, and telemedicine, is driving our Video Collaboration category and offers a long-term growth opportunity for Logitech. For businesses and institutions, video conferencing is increasingly substituted for travel, because of high travel costs as well as the productivity gain that can be achieved by a high-quality face-to-face meeting that does not require travel away from the office. For some schools, distance learning has become a complementary or, in some cases, an alternative way to educate students. Further, with the increased availability of high Internet bandwidth, video conferencing is becoming a key component of Unified Communications, which is the integration of communications solutions such as voicemail, e-mail, chat, presentation sharing and live video meetings. The market opportunity to provide innovative, affordable, and easy-to-use video collaboration products to the millions of small- to medium-sized meeting rooms lacking video is substantial, and we are well-positioned to take advantage of that opportunity and to expand into large-sized meeting rooms. Cloud-based music services have enjoyed tremendous growth, fueled by the adoption of smartphones, tablets, and other connected devices. Consumers are optimizing their audio experiences on their tablets and smartphones with wireless mobile speakers that pair easily with their mobile devices and with in-ear and other headphones. Our mobile speakers and in-ear headphone products target a large market that reflects the increasing popularity of mobile devices or various voice assistants for accessing digital music, although near-term growth has slowed in some markets. Additionally, within the music market, consumers are increasingly listening with wireless earphones while they undertake activities such as sports and fitness. The innovation in truly wireless headphones has led to double-digit industry growth in revenue and average selling price, which highlights a growth opportunity for Logitech. The home is also an important place for technological development, particularly as an increasing number of objects become connected smart home devices such as home security cameras, light bulbs, security locks, thermostats and others. Logitechs line of universal remotes and hubs control electronic and connected devices around the home, including these and other smart devices. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 4 Table of Contents Business Strategy Logitech's foundation for future growth is built on five core capabilities that apply to all of our product categories: Design; Engineering; Go-to-market; Marketing; and Operations. Design In the past few years, Logitech has strengthened its design capabilities by building a world-class team of internal designers. Our designs have an everyday place in peoples lives, connecting them to the digital experiences they care about. These products have been earning prestigious design awards - 286 design awards during the past six fiscal years - and enthusiastic reviews in the media. This is an important indication that Logitechs strategic aim to become a design company is working. During fiscal year 2020, we won 54 design awards spanning all of our product categories. As Logitech establishes itself as a design company, design thinking and culture are used as a strategic and cultural differentiator. Design also helps to reduce product costs through increased collaboration between our design, engineering and manufacturing teams. Our key design centers are in Switzerland, Ireland, the United States, and Taiwan. Engineering Our decades-long expertise in key engineering disciplines such as sensors, acoustics, optics, wireless, and power management is a core competitive advantage of Logitech. Furthermore, we continue to extend our engineering capabilities into more advanced technologies such as software, apps, cloud, data analytics and machine learning. Our engineering team has expertise in developing products for a broad array of platforms such as PCs, mobile and personal voice assistants (such as Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant). These engineering capabilities combined with our award-winning design team form the basis of Logitech's key innovation engine. Go-To-Market Over the past 30-plus years, Logitech has built an extensive global go-to-market network that can be leveraged as we introduce new products, enter new market categories and optimize the value of our existing products and product categories. We have multiple opportunities to drive growth - existing products in existing retailers, new products in existing retailers, existing products in new retailers, and new products in new retailers. Beyond traditional retail and distribution channels, we have also cultivated various non-traditional retail channels and are building our direct sales force to sell our products. As we continue to expand into new channels, there are numerous cross-selling opportunities across our broad product portfolio. We have established Logitech as a neutral technology supplier that can work with leading technology vendors and platforms as well as provide connections among their products and ecosystems. Marketing As Logitech expands into multiple categories with multiple brands, we are focusing on enhancing our marketing capabilities around brand strategy and execution, digital marketing, and marketing technology. Most of the marketing and creative efforts that were once outsourced to outside marketing agencies are now executed through our internal teams from concept to execution, which improves speed and cost efficiency. We are increasing our leverage of digital media channels and programs to drive consumer brand engagement and purchase. We are also increasing our focus on marketing analytics platforms to improve our understanding of marketing investments and to maximize return on investment (ROI). And we are making investments to upgrade and expand all aspects of our marketing technology infrastructure, including the re-platforming of our websites to support the global expansion of our brands across countries, languages and devices and to provide the foundation for the acceleration of our digital marketing efforts and evolution to personalized consumer communication. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 5 Table of Contents Operations Logitechs operations capability consists of a hybrid model of in-house manufacturing and third-party contract manufacturers, which allows us to effectively respond to rapidly changing demand and leverage economies of scale. Our supply chains extensive global reach, key distribution, adoption of factory automation and strategic business relationships combined with extensive analytic modeling expertise, optimization tools and global processes provide a competitive advantage against many of our competitors. Products Logitech designs, manufactures and markets products that allow people to connect through computing, gaming, video, music, and other digital platforms. The large majority of our revenue has historically been derived from sales of our products for use by consumers. Creativity & Productivity Pointing Devices: Logitech offers a variety of pointing devices. Some of our key products in this category include: The Logitech MX Master 3 and MX Anywhere 2S wireless mice, our flagship wireless mouse products. Enabled with Logitech Flow cross-computer control software, these products represent the new paradigm for precise, fast, comfortable cross-computer digital navigation. The Logitech MX Ergo, a wireless trackball that offers personalized comfort with a unique adjustable hinge, precision tracking and multi-device connectivity. The Logitech MX Vertical, a wireless mouse which is angled 57 degree and offers ergonomic comfort, precision tracking and multi-device connectivity. The Logitech Wireless Mouse M325, which offers micro-precise scrolling, 18-month battery life and comfortable design. The Logitech Wireless Mouse M185, a wireless mouse with nano receiver technology that is compatible with any computer. The Logitech Pebble Mouse, a wireless mobility mouse with dual connectivity (BT and unifying nano technology) that is compatible with any computer. Keyboards & Combos: Logitech offers a variety of corded and cordless keyboards, living room keyboards, and combos (keyboard-and-mouse combinations). Some of our products in this category include: The Logitech MX Keys Wireless keyboard, a premium backlit keyboard with customizable keys to access directly menus and shortcuts within leading creativity and productivity apps. The Logitech Wireless Touch Keyboard K400 Plus, a compact keyboard with an integrated touchpad and 10-meter wireless range, designed for use in the living room. The Logitech K380 wireless minimalist keyboard with multi-switch functionality to easily navigate from one screen to another (from PC to Phone to tablets) that is compatible with any computer. The Logitech Wireless Combo MK270, a full-size keyboard and mouse combination with a tiny USB receiver. PC Webcams: Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers. The Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920 and 1080P Pro Stream Webcam, which offer razor-sharp HD 1080p video recordings and stereo sound, were top revenue-generating webcams during fiscal year 2020. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 6 Table of Contents Tablet & Other Accessories: Our Tablet & Other Accessories category includes keyboards for tablets and smartphones as well as other accessories for mobile devices. These products are mostly for iPads but are also for select Samsung and other Android tablets. Some of our products in this category include : The Logitech Slim Combo Backlit Keyboard Case with Smart Connector for the iPad Pro 12.9 and iPad Pro 10.5 that provides thin and light front and back protection, a detachable backlit keyboard and a multi-angle stand for optimal viewing and face-time. The Logitech Slim Folio Keyboard for the iPad Pro 12.9 and 11, bringing a bluetooth backlit keyboard with a folio design for optimal working and viewing angle, light front and back protection and an Apple Pencil holder. The Logitech Slim Folio Keyboard for the 7th generation iPad for a light protection folio with a bluetooth keyboard. The Rugged Folio for the iPad 7th Generation, bringing a more protective rugged folio, with a wipeable fabric keyboard, a rugged and protective holder and an any-angle kickstand to allow multiple viewing angles. The Rugged Folio uses Smart Connector technology to connect to the iPad seamlessly, with no need for batteries or bluetooth pairing. The Combo Touch for the iPad 7th Generation and iPad Air, which is our newest design offering a Smart Connected backlit full-size keyboard, any-angle kickstand for flexible viewing angles and a trackpad for gestures, clicks and navigation. The Logitech Keys-To-Go, an ultra-portable, stand-alone keyboard. Gaming Logitech G provides gamers of all levels with industry-leading keyboards, mice, headsets and simulation products such as steering wheels and flight sticks, incorporating innovative design and advanced technologies . Some of our products in this category include: The Logitech G915 LIGHTSPEED Wireless, RGB Mechanical Gaming Keyboard, which features high-performance low-profile mechanical switches that provide all the speed, accuracy, and performance of traditional switches, at half the height. The Logitech G PRO Wireless Gaming Mouse that was designed in collaboration with the world's top esports professionals, and features our LIGHTSPEED TM professional grade wireless technology, our exclusive high-performance HERO gaming sensor, a flexible ambidextrous design, and support for our POWERPLAY TM wireless charging solution, for maximum performance and comfort over long gameplay sessions. The Logitech G29 Driving Force Steering Wheel for PC and Sony PlayStation 4, which features a powerful dual-motor force feedback transmission, hand-stitched leather-wrapped rim, and stainless steel throttle, brake and clutch pedals for an ultra-realistic driving experience. ASTRO Gaming is a performance gaming and lifestyle brand focused on the console gaming peripherals market with a cross-platform lineup consisting of four primary headset models and a high-performance controller for PlayStation 4 and PC: The A50 Wireless Headset and Base Station that targets the discerning prosumer consumer, featuring integrated MixAmp technology, Dolby Digital surround sound and the ASTRO Command Center Software system. The A40TR and MixAmp Pro, a wired solution that targets the esport professional and live streamer, featuring Dolby Digital surround sound, daisy-chain chat, live stream port and the ASTRO Command Center Software system. The A20 Wireless Headset, a stereo headset delivering the signature ASTRO comfort and audio customization via the ASTRO Command Center Software. The A10 wired headset, an ultra-durable robust headset delivering ASTRO signature comfort and sound quality at a more accessible price point. The C40 TR (Tournament Ready) wireless controller for PlayStation 4 and PC, which has modular, swappable and replaceable joysticks and d-pad, and also uses a proprietary low-latency wireless connection that supports advanced wireless audio directly to the controller. Video Collaboration Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 7 Table of Contents The Video Collaboration category includes Logitechs ConferenceCams, which combine enterprise-quality audio and high definition (HD) 1080p video with affordability to bring video conferencing to businesses of any size. Our key products in this category include: The Logitech Rally, which offers best-in-class video conferencing with Ultra HD 4K video and professional audio that easily turns medium- to large-sized conference rooms into video-enabled collaboration rooms. The Logitech MeetUp, which is Logitechs premier ConferenceCam designed for huddle rooms, with a room-capturing 120 field of view ( FOV), 4K optics and exceptional audio performance. The Logitech Tap touch-screen controller connects to any computer via USB and serves as an ideal controller for video conferencing room solutions from Google, Microsoft, and Zoom. The Logitech BRIO, which has 4K video, RightLight 3 and high dynamic range (HDR) to improve challenging lighting, and Windows Hello facial recognition support for secure login using just a user's face. Music Mobile Speakers: Our Mobile Speakers category comprises portable wireless Bluetooth and Wi-Fi speakers. The top revenue-generating product line in the Mobile Speakers category during fiscal year 2020 was the Ultimate Ears WONDERBOOM, our smaller sized portable bluetooth wireless speaker. In fiscal year 2020 we refreshed the product with WONDERBOOM2, which added an outdoor functionality to the immersive sound experience. Both generations of the WONDERBOOM product line remained in the channel for the full year alongside Ultimate Ears BOOM3 and MEGABOOM3 which we launched in fiscal year 2019. In March 2020, we added a new powerful party speaker, HYPERBOOM, to the portfolio of bluetooth speakers. This speaker has the loudest audio performance of the portfolio, combined with a new easy-switch audio source functionality that enables fast pairing to four different devices. Audio & Wearables: Our Audio & Wearables category comprises PC speakers, PC headsets, in-ear headphones and premium wireless audio wearables designed to enhance the audio experience and studio-quality microphones for professionals and consumers. We offer both the Jaybird wireless audio wearables for sports and active lifestyles and our custom in-ear headphones, made by Ultimate Ears. Jaybird is a digitally native brand that pioneered the wireless in-ear headphone category and continues to be a leading brand in headphones made for athletes. Designed for sport & IPX 7 rated, Jaybirds Tarah Pro, Tarah, X4 and Run XT offer great sound with the durability that athletes demand. All Jaybird products are accompanied by software supported on both Android and iOS that offers a rich personalized listening experience. Our Blue Microphones product line has a 25-year legacy of innovative design and premium performance across both professional and consumer markets. Blue Microphones offers a range of audio tools for recording or broadcasting applications, from YouTube and podcast production to music and gaming. Examples of products in the Blue Microphones lineup include: Yeti: A premium USB microphone for game streaming, podcasting, YouTube, Skype/VoIP and music. With its proprietary 3-capsule array, it delivers astounding details and presence and includes four recording patterns (cardioid, omni, bi-directional and stereo) for versatility. Yeti Nano: A premium USB microphone with broadcast sound quality in a more compact format. Dual capsule design enables cardioid and omni patterns. Yeti X: The next generation of Yeti, featuring a new proprietary 4-capsule array, fully digital architecture that is compatible with Blue Sherpa control software and Logi-G G-Hub gaming software, and Blue VO!CE, a new software application that allows the user to control and manipulate the sound of their voice through the microphone. Smart Home Our Smart Home category includes our Harmony line of advanced home entertainment controllers, products dedicated to controlling emerging categories of connected smart home devices such as lighting, thermostats and door locks, and home security cameras. Research and Development We recognize that continued investment in product research and development (including design) is critical to facilitate innovation of new and improved products, technologies and experiences. Our research and development expenses for fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 were $177.6 million , $161.2 million and $143.8 million , respectively. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 8 Table of Contents We expect to continue to devote significant resources to research, development and design, including devices for digital platforms, video communications, wireless technologies, power management, user interfaces and device database management to sustain our competitive position. Sales and Distribution Principal Markets Sales by geographic region for fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 (based on the customers' location) are as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2020 2019 2018 Americas $ 1,286,527 $ 1,190,216 $ 1,118,324 EMEA 941,211 861,731 820,347 Asia Pacific 748,113 736,375 628,192 Total Sales $ 2,975,851 $ 2,788,322 $ 2,566,863 Revenues from sales to customers in Switzerland, our home domicile, represented 4% , 3% and 2% of our sales in fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , respectively. In fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , revenues from sales to customers in the United States represented 36% , 36% and 37% of our sales, respectively. In fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , revenues from sales to customers in Germany represented 15% , 18% and 16% of our sales, respectively. Revenues from sales to customers in China represented 10% of our sales for fiscal year 2019 . No other country represented more than 10% of our sales for fiscal years 2020 , 2019 or 2018 . Sales and Distribution Our sales and marketing activities are organized into three geographic regions: the Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Asia Pacific (China, Japan, Australia, Taiwan, India and other countries). We sell our products primarily to a network of distributors, retailers and e-tailers. We support these channels with our direct sales force and third-party distribution centers located in North America, South America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Major distributors in North America include Ingram Micro Inc., Tech Data Corporation, D&H Distributing Company, and Synnex Corporation. In Europe, major Pan-European distributors include Ingram Micro, Tech Data, ALSO Group and DCC PLC. We also sell to many regional distributors such as ASBISC Enterprises PLC, Littlebit Technology Partners AG in Switzerland, Copaco Dc B.V. in the Netherlands and others. In Asia, major distributors include Wincheers International Trading Co., Ltd in China, Beijing Digital China Limited in China, Daiwabo in Japan, Synnex in Australia and the Pan-Asian distributor, i.e. Ingram Micro. Our distributor customers typically resell products to retailers, value-added resellers, systems integrators and other distributors with whom Logitech does not have a direct relationship. Logitech's products can be purchased in most major retail chains, where we typically have access to significant shelf space. In the U.S., these chains include Best Buy, Walmart, Staples, Office Depot and Target. In Europe, chains include Metro Group (Media-Saturn Group), Elkjop, FNAC, and Dixons Stores Group PLC. Logitech also sells products to non-traditional retail channels such as telcos. In addition, Logitech products can be purchased online either directly from Logitech.com or through e-tailers, such as Amazon.com, JD.com and the websites of our major retail chains noted previously, and others. Logitech products are also carried by business-to-business direct market resellers such as CDW Corp, Insight Enterprise, Inc., Zones, LLC, PC Connection, Inc., and SHI International Corp. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 9 Table of Contents In fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , Ingram Micro and its affiliated entities together accounted for 12% , 13% and 15% of our gross sales, respectively. In fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , Amazon Inc. and its affiliated entities together accounted for 14% , 14% and 13% of our gross sales, respectively. No other customer individually accounted for more than 10% of our gross sales during fiscal years 2020 , 2019 or 2018 . The material terms of our distribution agreements with Ingram Micro and its affiliated entities are summarized as follows: The agreements are non-exclusive in the particular territory and contain no minimum purchase requirements. Each agreement may be terminated for convenience at any time by either party. Most agreements provide for termination on 30 days written notice from either party, with several Ingram Micro agreements providing for termination on 60 to 90 days notice. We generally offer an allowance for marketing activities equal to a negotiated percentage of sales and volume rebates related to purchase volumes or sales of specific products to specified retailers. These terms vary by agreement. Agreements allow price protection credits to be issued for on-hand or in-transit new inventory if we, in our sole discretion, lower the price of the product. We grant limited stock rotation return rights in certain territories. The material terms of our reseller agreements with Amazon and its affiliated entities are summarized as follows: Each agreement has a one year term followed by one-year automatic renewals. We generally offer an allowance for marketing activities equal to a negotiated percentage of sales through transactions and additional rebates related to sales of specific products to end users. These terms vary by agreement. Agreements allow price protection credits to be issued for on-hand or in-transit new inventory if we, in our sole discretion, lower the price of the product. Through our operating subsidiaries, we maintain marketing and channel support offices in approximately 40 countries. Backlog In our experience, the amount of backlog at any particular fiscal period-end is not a meaningful indication of our future business prospects, as the cycle between order and shipment of our sales is generally relatively short, and also the backlog is impacted by the commercial cycle of our products. Customer Service and Technical Support Our customer service organization provides user technical support, support related to product inquiry, and order support. We support these customer service functions with two outsourced operations that have support centers located in China, South Korea, India, the Philippines, Mexico, Bulgaria and Northern Ireland. Our customer service and technical personnel in each of our regions provide support services to retail purchasers of products through telephone, e-mail, forums, chat, and the Logitech Support website. For some of our brands, dedicated support websites, dedicated internal support teams and channels are available. To improve our customers' experience and operate efficiently, we use technology to facilitate chatbot interactions, enable self-help and apply Artificial Intelligence to optimize support searches. Logitech provides warranties on our branded products that range from one to five years. For our Video Collaboration category, we also work with channel partners to offer bundled support services with Logitech Video Collaboration solutions. In Korea, India, and China, there are multiple locations where consumers may obtain service for their Logitech products. These locations are managed by third-party logistics providers. Consumers who have purchased Logitech products can visit these locations for product inspection, testing and return or exchange of products. Within China, there is also a mail-in center to provide these services for more remote locations in China. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 10 Table of Contents Manufacturing Logitech's manufacturing operations consist principally of final assembly and testing. Since 1994, we have had our own manufacturing operations in Suzhou, China, which currently handles approximately half of our total production of products. We continue to focus on ensuring the efficiency of the Suzhou facilities, through the implementation of quality management, automation, process improvements, and employee involvement programs. We outsource the remaining production to contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers located in Asia. Both our in-house and outsourced manufacturing operations are managed by our worldwide operations group. The worldwide operations group also supports the business units and marketing and sales organizations through the management of distribution centers and the supply chain and the provision of technical support and other services. New product launches, process engineering, commodities management, logistics, quality assurance, operations management and management of Logitech's contract manufacturers occur in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Vietnam and Thailand. Certain components are manufactured to Logitech's specifications by vendors in Asia, the United States, and Europe. We also use contract manufacturers to supplement internal capacity and to reduce volatility in production volumes. In addition, some products, including most keyboards, certain gaming devices and certain audio products are manufactured by contract manufacturers to Logitech's specifications. Our hybrid model of in-house manufacturing and contract manufacturers allows us to effectively respond to rapidly changing demand and leverage economies of scale. Through our high-volume manufacturing operations located in Suzhou, China, we believe we have been able to maintain strong quality process controls and have realized significant cost efficiencies. Our Suzhou operation provides for increased production capacity, manufacturing know-how, IP protection and greater flexibility in responding to product demand. Further, by outsourcing the manufacturing of certain products, we seek to reduce volatility in production volumes as well as improve time to market. Competition Our product categories are characterized by large, well-financed competitors, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets. We have experienced aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and less-established brands, including brands owned by some retail customers known as house brands. We may also encounter more competition if any of our competitors in one or more categories decide to enter other categories in which we currently operate. As we target opportunities in new categories and markets and as some of our product categories demonstrate growth, we are confronting new competitors, many of which may have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories, as well as future ones we might enter. Many of these companies have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources than we have. We expect continued competitive pressure in our business, including in the terms and conditions that our competitors offer customers, which may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our sales and operating margins. Creativity and Productivity Pointing Devices: Apple Inc., Microsoft Corporation and HP Inc. are our main competitors worldwide. We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets, such as Elecom Co., Ltd., Buffalo Inc., Shenzhen Rapoo Technology Co., Ltd., and Xiaomi Inc. Keyboards & Combos: Microsoft and Apple are the main competitors in our PC keyboard and combo product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for corded and cordless keyboard and combos from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets, such as Shenzhen Rapoo, and Xiaomi. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 11 Table of Contents Tablet & Other Accessories: Competitors in the tablet keyboard market are Apple, Zagg Inc., Kensington Computer Products Group, Belkin International, Inc., Targus Corporation and other less-established brands. Although we are one of the leaders in the tablet keyboard market and continue to bring innovative offerings to the market, we expect the competition may increase. Competitors in the tablet case market include Apple, Otter Products LLC, Speck Products and a large number of small brands. PC Webcams: Our primary competitors for PC webcams are Microsoft and other manufacturers taking smaller market share such as Razer Inc. Gaming Competitors for our Gaming products include Razer, Corsair Components, Inc., SteelSeries, Turtle Beach Corporation and Kingston Technology Corporation, among others. Video Collaboration Our competitors for Video Collaboration products include Cisco Systems, Inc., Poly, Inc., GN Netcom/Jabra, and AVer Information Inc., among others. Music Mobile Speakers: Our competitors for Bluetooth wireless speakers include Bose Corporation, Harman International Industries, Inc (owned by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Harman owns JBL and has Harman Kardon as a division), and Beats Electronics LLC (owned by Apple), among others. Harman is our largest competitor. Personal voice assistants and other devices that offer music, such as Sonos, Amazon's Echo, Google Home (owned by Alphabet, Inc.) and Apple HomePod, also compete with our products. Amazon is also a significant customer of our products. Audio & Wearables: For PC speakers, our competitors include Bose, Cyber Acoustics, LLC, Philips Consumer Lifestyle (a division of Royal Philips), Creative Labs, Inc., Apple and Samsung, among others. For PC headsets, our main competitors include Poly (formerly Plantronics Inc.) and GN Netcom, among others. In-ear headphones competitors include Beats, Bose, Apple, Sony, JBL and Sennheiser, among others. The platform providers (e.g., Apple and Samsung) are able to craft tighter experiences for their consumers due to their ability to control both ends of the ecosystem (the headphone and the mobile device). Our competitors for Blue Microphones products include Rode Microphones LLC, Audio Technica Corporation, Samson Technologies Corp., Shure Incorporated, Razer Inc. and Apogee Electronics Corp., among others. Smart Home Direct competitors in the remote control market include pro-installer-focused Universal Remote Control Inc., and new DIY entrants. Indirect competition exists in the form of low-end replacement remotes such as Sony Corporation, RCA Corporation, and General Electric Company (GE), pure app-based solutions such as Peel Technologies, as well as device and/or subscriber-specific solutions from TV makers such as Samsung and Vizio, Inc. and multiple-system operators (MSOs) such as Comcast Corporation and DirecTV (owned by AT&T, Inc.). Competition in the home control market also exists in the form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with its Echo product, Google Home and Nest (owned by Alphabet Inc.), Wink and many other startups in the space. Many of these products and brands are partners with Logitech as well as via integrations with Harmony remotes. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Intellectual property rights that apply to Logitech's products and services include patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. While we believe that patent protection is important, we also believe that patents are of less competitive significance than factors such as technological innovation, ease of use, and quality design. No single patent is in itself essential to Logitech as a whole. From time to time we receive claims that we may be infringing on patents or other intellectual property rights of others. As appropriate, claims are referred to legal counsel, and current claims are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for certain intellectual property rights. Refer also to the discussion in Item 1A, Risk Factors"We Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 12 Table of Contents may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products." and "Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could adversely affect our business." To distinguish genuine Logitech products from competing products and counterfeit products, Logitech has used, registered, or applied to register certain trademarks and trade names in the United States and other countries and jurisdictions. Logitech enforces its trademark and trade name rights in the United States and other countries. In addition, the software for Logitech's products and services is entitled to copyright protection, and we generally require our customers to obtain a software license before providing them with that software. We also protect details about our products and services as trade secrets through employee training, license and non-disclosure agreements, technical measures and other reasonable efforts to preserve confidentiality. Environmental Regulation We are subject to laws and regulations in many jurisdictions regulating the materials used in our products and, increasingly, product-related energy consumption, and the recycling of our products, batteries, and packaging. Europe. In Europe, we are subject to the European Union's (EU's), Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronics Equipment Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS Directive). This directive restricts the placement into the EU market of electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous materials, including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium, phthalates and halogenated flame-retardants. All Logitech products are covered by the directive and have been modified, if necessary, to be compliant with the RoHS Directive, we issue a declaration of conformity and mark the product with the 'CE' mark. We are also subject to the EU's Energy-related Products Directive (ErP Directive), which aims to encourage manufacturers and importers to produce products designed to minimize overall environmental impact. Under the ErP Directive, manufacturers must ensure that their energy-related products comply with applicable requirements, issue a declaration of conformity and mark the product with the 'CE' mark. We have assessed the applicability and implementation of the applicable measures on our relevant product lines and have taken steps to ensure that our products meet the requirements. Adoption of the ErP Directive will be aligned in all EU member states. Similar requirements exist in the four member states of the European Free Trade Association (Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland). Such requirements are substantially met by compliance with the ErP Directive. We are also subject to a number of End of Life Stewardship directives including the EU's Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, the EU Packaging Directive and the EU Battery Directive, which require producers of electrical goods, packaging, and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Where applicable, we have provided for the estimated costs, which are not material, of managing and recycling historical and future waste equipment, packaging and batteries. We are also subject to the European REACH Directive (Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restrictions of Chemicals) (REACH Directive) and we have taken steps to ensure that our relevant product lines are compliant with the applicable provision of the REACH Directive. China. In China, we are subject to China's laws on Management Methods on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products (the China RoHS laws). The China RoHS laws are substantially similar to the EU RoHS Directive, and as such, our products are already compliant. The China RoHS laws require additional labeling of products that will be shipped to China and we have taken steps to ensure we comply with these requirements. United States and Canada. In the U.S., we are subject to, among other laws, the Appliance Efficiency Regulations adopted under the U.S. Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products and such standards apply to appliances sold or offered for sale throughout the U.S. We have redesigned or changed certain of our products to ensure compliance with these regulations. We are also subject to California's Proposition 65, which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the state of California to be dangerous. In addition, our Electronic and Electrical Equipment (EEE) containing composite wood covered under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), Title VI and offered for sale in the United States complies with the formaldehyde substance restrictions set out in TSCA Title VI. Logitech is also subject to the requirement as set out by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, specifically Section 1502, which addresses the use of "Conflict Minerals" in the supply chain. We have established systems which facilitate our compliance with the sourcing, traceability and reporting Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 13 Table of Contents obligations and the reporting requirements of this Act aligned with guidelines published by the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a member of the Responsible Business Alliance or RBA (formerly the EICC) and the Responsible Minerals Initiative, we participate in the industry-wide Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative and its Conflict-Free Smelter Program by which these requirements are met. In addition, the Transparency in Supply Chain Act of 2010 (S.B. 657) is effective from Logitech's fiscal year 2012. The law requires all retailers and manufacturers of tangible products who do business in California and have annual worldwide gross receipts exceeding $100 million to disclose on their company websites their efforts to combat forced labor and human trafficking in their own supply chains. Similarly, Logitech complies with the requirements of the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of 2015 requiring certain commercial organizations to transparently report their efforts to identify and eradicate slavery and human trafficking in their supply chain. Further information is provided in our annual Sustainability Report and Logitech's disclosure posted on our website, www.logitech.com. We are subject to laws in various Canadian provinces and U.S. states that impose fees to cover the cost of end-of-life responsible disposal and recycling of packaging, product, and batteries. These laws require producers of electrical goods, packaging, and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Where applicable, we have provided for the estimated costs, which are not material, of managing and recycling historical and future waste equipment, packaging, and batteries. India. In India, we are subject to Schedule I of the India E-Waste Management Rules, 2016 on Electronic and Electrical Equipment (EEE) being offered for sale to comply with the substance restrictions defined in sub rule (1) of Chapter V, Section 16 of said rules. Our RoHS Management Program was established in 2002 to ensure compliance with EU RoHS initially and this program along with our hazardous substance management capabilities assures Logitech of compliance to these requirements for all applicable products worldwide. Australia and New Zealand. In Australia and New Zealand, we are subject to the Minimum Energy Performance Standards regulations (MEPS). These regulations set out standards for the energy consumption performance of products within the scope of the regulations, which includes some of our products. We have taken steps to modify products to ensure they are in compliance with MEPS. We expect further laws governing product and packaging recycling to be introduced in other jurisdictions, many or most of which could impose fees to cover recycling costs, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. If such legislation is enacted in other countries, Logitech intends to develop compliance programs as necessary. However, until that time, we are not able to estimate any possible impact. The effects on Logitech's business of complying with other government regulations are limited to the cost of agency fees and testing, as well as the time required to obtain agency approvals. There are also stewardship costs associated with the end-of-life collection, recycling and recovery of Logitech products, packaging and batteries where Logitech is recognized as the steward and participates in relevant programs. The costs and schedule requirements are industry requirements and therefore do not represent an undue burden relative to Logitech's competitive position. As regulations change, we will modify our products or processes to address those changes. In addition to monitoring and managing compliance with environmental regulations, we also monitor and align with international good practice standards for environmental, social and sustainability performance. We joined the RBA (formerly EICC) in 2007 to collaborate with industry peers to drive international good practice across the electronics sector. Since 2007, we have fully adopted the RBA Code of Conduct, and we publish an annual Sustainability Report in alignment with the good practice standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. For more information on our approach to sustainability management, RBA Code of Conduct compliance and international good practice, refer to our annual Sustainability Report, which is available from the sustainability page on www.logitech.com. Seasonality Our product sales are typically seasonal. Sales are generally highest during our third fiscal quarter (October to December) primarily due to the increased consumer demand for our products during the year-end holiday buying season and year-end spending by enterprises. Cash flow is correspondingly lower as we typically build inventories in advance for the third quarter and we pay an annual dividend following our Annual General Meeting, which is typically in September. Due to the timing of our new product introductions, which could occur at any point during the fiscal year, we believe that year-over-year comparisons are more indicative of variability in our results of operations than the current quarter to prior quarter comparisons. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 14 Table of Contents Materials We purchase certain products and key components used in our products from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers go out of business, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our shipments to our customers could be delayed, potentially resulting in lost revenue, market presence and market share. In addition, lead times for materials, components, and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, our ability to forecast product demand, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs. Employees As of March 31, 2020 , we employed approximately 6,600 regular employees, of which approximately 3,000 employees are in our Suzhou manufacturing facilities, and from the remaining 3,600 regular employees, approximately 800 are dedicated to research and development. None of Logitech's U.S. employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Certain other countries, such as China, provide by law for employee rights, which include requirements similar to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of May 27, 2020: * Name Age Nationality Position Bracken Darrell 57 U.S. President and Chief Executive Officer Nate Olmstead ** 48 U.S. Chief Financial Officer Prakash Arunkundrum* 45 U.S. Head of Global Operations * On May 27, 2020, Logitech designated Mr. Arunkundrum as an Executive Officer and a member of its Group Management Team. ** Effective as of June 1, 2019, Logitech appointed Mr. Olmstead as interim Chief Financial Officer. On July 22, 2019, Logitech appointed Mr. Olmstead as full-time Chief Financial Officer. Bracken Darrell joined Logitech as President in April 2012 and became Chief Executive Officer in January 2013. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Darrell served as President of Whirlpool EMEA and Executive Vice President of Whirlpool Corporation, a home appliance manufacturer and marketing company, from January 2009 to March 2012. Previously, Mr. Darrell had been Senior Vice President, Operations of Whirlpool EMEA from May 2008 to January 2009. From 2002 to May 2008, Mr. Darrell was with the Procter & Gamble Company (P&G), a consumer brand company, most recently as the President of its Braun GmbH subsidiary. Prior to rejoining P&G in 2002, Mr. Darrell served in various executive and managerial positions with General Electric Company from 1997 to 2002, with P&G from 1991 to 1997, and with PepsiCo Inc. from 1987 to 1989. Mr. Darrell holds a BA degree from Hendrix College and an MBA from Harvard University. Nate Olmstead joined Logitech in April 2019 as Vice President of Business Finance and was appointed interim Chief Financial Officer as of June 2019 and Chief Financial Officer as of July 2019. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Olmstead served in various financial management roles at Hewlett-Packard Company and Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, a multinational information technology company, most recently as the Vice President of Finance for Global Operations at Hewlett-Packard Enterprise from June 2017 to March 2019. He also served as Vice President of Finance, EG Global Supply Chain and Quality from February 2015 to June 2017, Vice President of Finance, HP Storage and HP Converged Systems from 2009 to February 2015, and Director, HP Investor Relations from 2006 to 2009. Mr. Olmstead holds a BA degree from Stanford University and an MBA from Harvard University. Prakash Arunkundrum is Logitechs Head of Global Operations, a position he has held since May 2018. He joined Logitech in 2015 and held operations positions as Vice President New Product Introductions & Strategic Initiatives from August 2015 to July 2016 and Vice President Global Sourcing and New Product Introductions from July 2016 to May 2018. Prior to joining Logitech, Mr. Arunkundrum was a Principal at A.T. Kearney, a global Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 15 Table of Contents management consulting firm, from July 2014 to August 2015. He also served as Director, Management Consulting at PricewaterhouseCoopers, a multinational professional services network of firms, from September 2011 to July 2014 and Principal at PRTM Management Consultants LLC, a management consulting firm acquired by PricewaterhouseCoopers, from March 2010 to September 2011. Prior to his management consulting roles, Mr. Arunkundrum held several management positions at i2 Technologies, a supply chain management company acquired by JDA Software, from March 2007 to February 2010. Early in his career, he held product management positions at supply chain startups and i2 Technologies. Mr. Arunkundrum holds a BTech degree in Chemical Engineering from Central ElectroChemical Research Institute (CECRI) in Karaikudi, India and a Master of Science in Materials Engineering from University of Maryland at College Park. Available Information Our Investor Relations website is located at https://ir.logitech.com. We post and maintain an archive of our earnings and other press releases, current reports, annual and quarterly reports, earnings release schedule, information regarding annual general meetings, further information on corporate governance, and other information regarding the Company on the Investor Relations website. The information we post includes filings we make with the SEC, including reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, and our proxy statement related to our annual shareholders' meeting and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to U.S. securities laws or Swiss laws. All such filings and information are available free of charge on the website, and we make them available on the website as soon as reasonably possible after we file or furnish them with the SEC. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and our references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. In addition, Logitech publishes press releases upon the occurrence of significant events within Logitech. Shareholders and members of the public may elect to receive e-mails when Logitech issues press releases upon the occurrence of significant events within Logitech or other press releases by subscribing through http://ir.logitech.com/alerts.cfm. As a Swiss company traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange, and as a company subject to the provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we file reports on transactions in Logitech securities by members of Logitech's Board of Directors and executive officers. The reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 3, 4 and 5, along with our other SEC filings, may be accessed on our website or on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov, and the reports we file that are published by the SIX Swiss Exchange may be accessed at http://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/obligations/management_transactions_en.html. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuations in results may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict due to the nature of the markets in which we compete, fluctuating user demand, the uncertainty of current and future global economic conditions, and for many other reasons, including the following: Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. As a result, our revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. A significant portion of our quarterly retail sales typically occurs in the last weeks of each quarter, further increasing the difficulty in predicting quarterly revenues and profitability. Our sales are impacted by consumer demand and current and future global economic and political conditions, including trade restrictions and tariffs, and can, therefore, fluctuate abruptly and significantly during periods of uncertain economic conditions or geographic distress, as well as from shifts in distributor inventory practices and consumer buying patterns. We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers. This makes it difficult for us to rapidly adjust our costs during the quarter in response to a revenue shortfall, which could adversely affect our operating results. Changes in supply, operations and demand and uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and such activity varies from period to period. Such variance may affect our growth, our previous outlook and expectations, and comparisons of our operating results and financial statements between periods. We have attempted to simplify our organization, to reduce operating costs through expense reduction and global workforce reductions, to reduce the complexity of our product portfolio, and to better align costs with our current business as we expand from PC accessories to growth opportunities in accessories and other products for music, gaming, video collaboration, digital home, mobile devices and other product categories. We may not achieve the cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these efforts, and the success or failure of such efforts may cause our operating results to fluctuate and to be difficult to predict. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact our revenues, expenses and profitability because we report our financial statements in U.S. Dollars, whereas a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are in other currencies. We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements. However, over short periods of time, during periods of weakness in consumer spending or given high levels of competition in many product categories, our ability to change local currency prices to offset the impact of currency fluctuations is limited. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, our results may be below the expectations of financial analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our shares to decline. If we fail to innovate and develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner for our new and existing product categories, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our product categories are characterized by short product life cycles, intense competition, frequent new product introductions, rapidly changing technology, dynamic consumer demand and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 17 Table of Contents The success of our product portfolio depends on several factors, including our ability to: Identify new features, functionality and opportunities; Anticipate technology, market trends and consumer preferences; Develop innovative, high-quality, and reliable new products and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner; Distinguish our products from those of our competitors; and Offer our products at prices and on terms that are attractive to our customers and consumers. If we do not execute on these factors successfully, products that we introduce or technologies or standards that we adopt may not gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our business and operating results could suffer. In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process also can be lengthy and costly. There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments. If we fail to accurately anticipate technological trends or our users needs or preferences, are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost-effective and timely fashion or are unable to appropriately increase production to fulfill customer demand, we will be unable to successfully introduce new products and services into the market or compete with other providers. Even if we complete the development of our new products and services in a cost-effective and timely manner, they may not be competitive with products developed by others, they may not achieve acceptance in the market at anticipated levels or at all, they may not be profitable or, even if they are profitable, they may not achieve margins as high as our expectations or as high as the margins we have achieved historically. As we introduce new or enhanced products, integrate new technology into new or existing products, or reduce the overall number of products offered, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers ordering patterns, excessive levels of new and existing product inventories, revenue deterioration in our existing product lines, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks by reducing the effectiveness of our product launches, reducing sales volumes of current products due to anticipated future products, making it more difficult to compete, shortening the period of differentiation based on our product innovation, straining relationships with our partners or increasing market expectations for the results of our new products before we have had an opportunity to demonstrate the market viability of the products. Our failure to manage the transition to new products or the integration of new technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. Our future growth will depend on our diversified product growth opportunities, and if we do not successfully execute on our growth opportunities, or if our growth opportunities are more limited than we expect, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform. Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining or flat for several years, and such trends may continue in the future. This has put pressure on consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets and may cause sales growth of our PC peripherals to slow and, in some cases, decline. We expect this trend may continue. Our sales of PC peripherals might be less than we expect due to a decline in business or economic conditions in one or more of the countries or regions, a greater decline than we expect in demand for our products, our inability to successfully execute our sales and marketing plans, or for other reasons. Global economic concerns, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, the varying pace of global economic recovery, political uncertainties created by policy changes such as Brexit, tariffs and policies that inhibit trade, the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, the Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 18 Table of Contents impact of oil prices on Russia and other countries, conflicts with either local or global financial implications and economic slowdown in China, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. As a result, we are attempting to diversify our product category portfolio and focusing more of our attention, which may include personnel, financial resources and management attention, on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the consumption of digital music, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities in addition to our PC peripherals product categories. Our investments may not result in the growth we expect, or when we expect it, for a variety of reasons including those described below. Creativity & Productivity . Despite slowing or declines in sales of PCs, our pointing devices, keyboards, webcams and other PC peripherals have continued to see some growth as a result of consumers refreshing their existing PCs, product innovation and new consumer trends, such as social content creation. If these trends and other growth drivers do not continue, or result in erratic periods of growth, our results of operations could be more susceptible to the trends in PCs and our business and our results could be adversely affected. Gaming . We are building a diverse business that features a variety of gaming peripherals. The rapidly evolving and changing market and increasing competition increase the risk that we do not allocate our resources in line with the market and our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Video Collaboration. While we view the small and medium-sized user groups opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we and our competitors are developing. If the market opportunity proves to be sustainable, we expect increased competition from established competitors in the video conferencing market as well as from new entrants who are gaining traction as the industry comes to accept new technology and new solutions. In order to continue to grow in this opportunity, we may need to further build and scale our own enterprise sales force, a capability that several of our competitors in this category already have. Music. We make and sell products for the consumption of digital music in targeted segments of that market. Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase. Moreover, the market for mobile speakers appears to be maturing with slower growth or even declining. If we are not able to grow our existing and acquired product lines and introduce differentiated products and marketing strategies to separate our products and brands from competitors' products and brands, our mobile speaker and audio headphone efforts will not be successful, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Smart Home . While we are a leader in programmable, performance remote controls for home entertainment, the smart home market is still in its early stages and it is not yet clear when the category will produce dynamic growth or which products will succeed and be able to take advantage of market growth or to help define and grow the market. Despite its early stages, the smart home market already is experiencing increasing competition from strong competitors. In addition to our current growth opportunities, our future growth may be reliant on our ability to identify and develop potential new growth opportunities. This process is inherently risky and will result in investments in time and resources for which we do not achieve any return or value. Each of these growth categories and many of the growth opportunities that we may pursue are subject to constant and rapidly changing and evolving technologies and evolving industry standards and may be replaced by new technology concepts or platforms. Some of these growth categories and opportunities are also characterized by short product cycles, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and rapidly changing and evolving consumer preferences with respect to design and features that require calculated risk-taking and fast responsiveness and result in short opportunities to establish a market presence. In addition, some of these growth categories and opportunities are characterized by price competition, erosion of premium-priced segments and average selling prices, commoditization, and sensitivity to general economic conditions and cyclical downturns. The growth opportunities and strength and number of competitors that we face in all of our product categories mean that we are at risk of new competitors coming to market with more innovative products that are more attractive to customers than ours or priced more competitively. If we do not develop innovative and reliable peripherals and enhancements in a cost-effective and timely manner that are attractive to consumers in these markets, if we are otherwise unsuccessful entering and competing in these growth categories or responding to our many competitors and to the rapidly changing conditions in these growth categories, if the growth categories in which we invest our Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 19 Table of Contents limited resources do not emerge as the opportunities or do not produce the growth or profitability we expect, or when we expect it, or if we do not correctly anticipate changes and evolutions in technology and platforms, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, or if our brands or reputation are damaged, our reputation, business and operating results could be adversely affected. We have developed long-term value in our brands and have invested significantly in design and in our existing and new brands over the past several years. We believe that our design and brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is very important to our future growth and success. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will require significant investments and will depend largely on our future design, products and marketing, which may not be successful and may damage our brands. Our brands and reputation are also dependent on third parties, such as suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, product reviewers and the media as well as online consumer product reviews, consumer recommendations and referrals. It can take significant time, resources and expense to overcome negative publicity, reviews or perception. Any negative effect on our brands, regardless of whether it is in our control, could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. If we do not compete effectively, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The peripherals industry is intensely competitive. Most of our product categories are characterized by large, well-financed competitors with strong brand names and highly effective research and development, marketing and sales capabilities, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets. Many of our competitors have broad product portfolios across several of our product categories and are able to use the strength of their brands to move into adjacent categories. Our competitors have the ability to bring new products to market quickly and at competitive prices. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands. In addition, our competitors may offer customers terms and conditions that may be more favorable than our terms and conditions and may require us to take actions to increase our customer incentive programs, which could impact our revenues and operating margins. In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell and entered new markets. We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories as well as in future categories we might enter. Many of these companies, such as Microsoft, Apple, Google, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Samsung and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon are leading producers of operating systems, hardware, platforms and applications with which our mice, keyboards, wireless speakers and other products are designed to operate. In addition, Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon each has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base. As a result, Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon each may be able to improve the functionality of its products, if any, or may choose to show preference to our competitors' products, to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems, hardware and software applications before we are able to make such improvements. This ability could provide Microsoft, Apple, Google, Amazon or other competitors with significant lead-time advantages. In addition, Microsoft, Apple, Google, Amazon or other competitors may be able to control distribution channels or offer pricing advantages on bundled hardware and software products that we may not be able to offer, and maybe financially positioned to exert significant downward pressure on product prices and upward pressure on promotional incentives in order to gain market share. Creativity & Productivity Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 20 Table of Contents Pointing Devices. Apple, Microsoft and HP are our main competitors worldwide. We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets such as Elecom, Buffalo, Shenzhen Rapoo and Xiaomi. Keyboards & Combo . Microsoft and Apple are our main competitors in our PC keyboard and combo product lines. We also experience competition and pricing pressure for keyboard and combos from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets such as Shenzhen Rapoo and Xiaomi. Tablet & Other Accessories . Competitors in the tablet keyboard market are Apple, Zagg, Kensington, Belkin, Targus and other less-established brands. Although we are one of the leaders in the tablet keyboard market and continue to bring innovative offerings to the market, we expect the competition may increase. Competitors in the tablet case market include Apple, Otter, Speck and a large number of small brands. PC Webcams. Our primary competitors for PC webcams are Microsoft and other manufacturers taking smaller market share such as Razer. Gaming Competitors for our Gaming products include Razer, Corsair Components, SteelSeries, Turtle Beach and Kingston, among others. Video Collaboration Our competitors for Video Collaboration products are numerous across various categories with many new entrants. Competitors include Cisco Systems, Poly, GN Netcom/Jabra (which recently acquired Altia systems), and AVer Information, among others. Music Mobile Speakers. Our competitors for Bluetooth wireless speakers include Bose, Harman (owned by Samsung) and Beats (owned by Apple) among others. Harman is our largest competitor. Apple's ownership of Beats may impact our access to shelf space in Apple retail stores and adversely impact our ability to succeed in this important growth market. Personal voice assistants and other devices that offer music, such as Sonos, Amazon's Echo, Google Home and Apple HomePod also compete with our products. Amazon is also a significant customer of our products. Audio & Wearables . For PC speakers, our competitors include Bose, Cyber Acoustics, Phillips, Creative Labs, Apple and Samsung, among others. For PC headset, we face numerous competitors, including Plantronics and GN Netcom, among others. In-ear headphones competitors include Beats, Bose, Apple, Sony, JBL and Sennheiser, among others. Our competitors for Blue Microphones products include Rode, Audio-Technica, Samson, Shure, Razer and Apogee, among others. Smart Home Direct competitors in the remote control market include pro-installer-focused Universal Remote Control and new DIY entrants. Indirect competition exists in the form of low-end replacement remotes such as Sony, RCA, GE, pure app-based solutions such as Peel, as well as device and/or subscriber-specific solutions from TV makers such as Samsung and Vizio and multisystem operators, or MSOs, such as Comcast and DirecTV. Competition in the home control market also exists in form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with their Echo product, Google Home and Nest (owned by Alphabet), Wink and many other startups. Many of these companies also integrate their products with Logitech's smart home and Harmony remote products. The full effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is uncertain and cannot be predicted, and the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 21 Table of Contents COVID-19 has spread rapidly throughout the world, causing significant volatility and disruption in financial markets, curtailing global economic activity, raising the prospect of an extended global recession, and prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures in response. Such measures have included restrictions on travel and business operations, indefinite business closures, and quarantines and shelter-at-home orders. The full effects of the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be predicted as a result of uncertainties, including the extent and rate of the spread, the possibility and timing of any vaccine, treatment or cure or stop to the spread, and the potential for additional peaks in infection rates. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken by many countries in response have contributed to a general slowdown in the global economy and adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our business and operations, our customers and our partners. Starting with the initial outbreak of the virus in China and as it has spread globally, we have experienced disruptions and higher costs in our manufacturing, supply chain and logistics operations and outsourced services, and in some cases increased sell-through, resulting in shortages of our products in our distribution channels. In order to renew manufacturing at our own facility, we have quarantined employees and re-engineered our manufacturing operations with diminished capacity. Sales of our products have also been impeded by closures of retail stores and disruptions in other channel partner points of sale. At the same time, as a result of government orders and concern for the well-being of our employees and their families, we have required substantially all of our employees in non-manufacturing facilities to work remotely. This has led to inefficiencies and operational, cybersecurity and other risks and costs which could have an adverse impact to our results of operations. We cannot reasonably predict when our employees will be able to return to our offices or the further precautionary measures and costs we may need to incur to ensure the health of our employees and to mitigate the spread and impact of the virus. Additionally, our management team and employees had to focus on planning for and mitigating operational changes and risks of the COVID-19 pandemic, shifting some of their attention from focusing on and adversely affecting our normal business, strategic plans and other initiatives. We have also incurred additional costs related to business continuity. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had mixed effects on our results of operations, and it may continue to have mixed or adverse effects. It also may have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in under this heading Risk Factors. We continue to monitor the situation and attempt to take appropriate actions in accordance with the recommendations and requirements of relevant authorities. The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and on our operational and financial performance and condition is currently uncertain and will depend on many factors outside our control, including but not limited to the timing, extent, duration and effects of the virus and any of its mutations, the development and availability of effective treatments an vaccines, the imposition of effective public safety and other protective measures, the impact of COVID-19 on the global economy and demand for our products and services, and the impact of the virus on the business, operations and financial condition of our partners. Should the COVID-19 situation not improve or worsen, or if our attempts to mitigate its impact on our operations and costs are not successful, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be adversely affected. Our business depends in part on access to third-party platforms or technologies, and if the access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our peripherals business has historically been built largely around the PC platform, which over time became relatively open, and its inputs and operating system standardized. With the growth of mobile, tablet, gaming and other computer devices, digital music and personal voice assistants, the number of platforms has grown, and with it the complexity and increased need for us to have business and contractual relationships with the platform owners in order to produce products compatible with these platforms. Our product portfolio includes current and future products designed for use with third-party platforms or software, such as the Apple iPad, iPod, iPhone and Siri, Android phones and tablets, Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa . Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, some of whom are our competitors. Platform owners that are competitors have a competitive advantage in designing products for their platforms and may produce peripherals or other products that work better, or are perceived to work better, than our products in connection with those platforms. As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 22 Table of Contents Our access to third-party platforms may require paying a royalty, which lowers our product margins or may otherwise be on terms that are not acceptable to us. In addition, the third-party platforms or technologies used to interact with our product portfolio can be delayed in production or can change without prior notice to us, which can result in our having excess inventory or lower margins. If we are unable to access third-party platforms or technologies, or if our access is withdrawn, denied, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, or if the platforms or technologies are delayed or change without notice to us, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not accurately forecast market demand for our products, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products. Although we receive forecasts from our customers, many are not obligated to purchase the forecasted demand. Also, actual sales volumes for individual products in our retail distribution channel can be volatile due to changes in consumer preferences and other reasons. In addition, our products have short product life cycles, so a failure to accurately predict high demand for a product can result in lost sales that we may not recover in subsequent periods, or higher product costs if we meet demand by paying higher costs for materials, production and delivery. We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space. Our failure to predict low demand for a product can result in excess inventory, lower cash flows and lower margins if we are required to reduce product prices in order to reduce inventories. If our sales channel partners have excess inventory of our products or decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, they may decrease the amount of products they acquire in subsequent periods, causing disruption in our business and adversely affecting our forecasts and sales. Over the past few years, we have expanded the types of products we sell and the geographic markets in which we sell them. The changes in our product portfolio and the expansion of our sales markets have increased the difficulty of accurately forecasting product demand. In addition, starting in fiscal year 2016, we increased the number of our products that we manufacture in our own facilities. This increases the inventory that we purchase and maintain to support such manufacturing. We are also utilizing sea shipments more extensively than air delivery, which will cause us to build and ship products to our distribution centers earlier and will also result in increases in inventory. These operational shifts increase the risk that we have excess or obsolete inventory if we do not accurately forecast product demand. Other events or circumstances, including those not in our control, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, may result in rapid and significant increases or decreases of demand for our products that may result in excess inventory or product unavailability, increases in operational logistics and other costs, and damaged relationships with suppliers or customers. We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products. We expect other differences between forecasts and actual demand to arise in the future. If we do not accurately predict product demand, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management. Our strategy and our ability to innovate, design and produce new products, sell products, maintain operating margins and control expenses depend on key personnel that may be difficult to replace. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel. From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions. We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive. If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. If we do not retain or maintain the continuity of our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, including voluntary or Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 23 Table of Contents involuntary departure, death or permanent or temporary disability (the risk of which has been underscored during the COVID-19 pandemic), we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees. In addition, we must carefully balance the size of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows. If we are unable to manage the size of our employee base, particularly engineers, we may fail to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner. If our revenue growth or employee levels vary significantly, our operating cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, including declines in our stock prices in the past year, may also affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted equity incentives. Logitechs practice has been to provide equity incentives to its employees, but the number of shares available for equity grants is limited. We may find it difficult to provide competitive equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer. Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce to align our employee base with our business strategy, our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus. We have also experienced turnover in our workforce. These reductions and turnover have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee uncertainty and discontent. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to attract, motivate and retain employees, which could adversely affect our business. Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on multiple factors, which can result in unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Our gross margins can vary due to consumer demand, competition, product pricing, product lifecycle, product mix, new product introductions, unit volumes, acquisitions and divestitures, commodity, supply chain and logistics costs, capacity utilization, geographic sales mix, currency exchange rates, trade policy and tariffs, and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations and other factors. In particular, if we are not able to introduce new products in a timely manner at the product cost we expect, or if consumer demand for our products is less than we anticipate, or if there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react or that are initiated by us to drive sales that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will be less than we project. In addition, our gross margins may vary significantly by product line, sales geography and customer type, as well as within product lines. When the mix of products sold shifts from higher margin product lines to lower margin product lines, to lower margin sales geographies, or to lower margin products within product lines, our overall gross margins and our profitability may be adversely affected. As we expand within and into new product categories, our products in those categories may have lower gross margins than in our traditional product categories. Consumer demand in these product categories, based on style, color and other factors, tends to be less predictable and tends to vary more across geographic markets. As a result, we may face higher up-front investments, inventory costs associated with attempting to anticipate consumer preferences, and increased inventory write-offs. If we are unable to offset these potentially lower margins by enhancing the margins in our more traditional product categories, our profitability may be adversely affected. Changes in trade policy, including tariffs and the tariffs focused on China in particular, and currency exchange rates also have adverse impacts on our gross margins. The COVID-19 pandemic is putting pressure on our gross margins as well as we face uncertain product demand and incur increased air freight and other costs to fulfill sell through demand, replenish channel inventory, and maintain shelf presence and market share. The impact of these factors on gross margins can create unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 24 Table of Contents As we continue our efforts to lower our costs and improve our operating leverage, we may or may not fully realize our goals. Our strategy over the past several years has been based in part on simplifying the organization, reducing operating costs through global workforce reductions and a reduction in the complexity of our product portfolio, with the goal of better aligning costs with our current business. We restructured our business in fiscal years 2014 through 2016, and we may continue to divest or discontinue non-strategic product categories. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented a restructuring plan to streamline and realign our overall organization structure and reallocate resources to support long-term growth opportunities. We substantially completed this restructuring during the three months ended June 30, 2019. Our ability to achieve the desired and anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these simplification, cost-cutting and restructuring activities, and within our desired and expected timeframes, are subject to many estimates and assumptions, and the actual savings and timing for those savings may vary materially based on factors such as local labor regulations, negotiations with third parties, and operational requirements. These estimates and assumptions are also subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the desired and anticipated benefits from these activities. To the extent that we are unable to improve our financial performance, further restructuring measures may be required in the future. Furthermore, we are expecting to be able to use the anticipated cost savings from these activities to fund and support our current growth opportunities and incremental investments for future growth. If the cost-savings do not materialize as anticipated, or within our expected timeframes, our ability to invest in growth may be limited and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. As we grow, explore new opportunities and markets, hire new management and other personnel, and fund research and development, marketing, brand development, sales, operations, investments in intellectual property and acquisitions to support this growth and our new opportunities, some or all of which may not succeed, we expect to experience continued pressure on our cost structure and expenses. As part of the restructuring plans, we reduced the size of our product portfolio and the assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category over the past several fiscal years. While we are constantly replacing products and are dependent on the success of our new products, this product portfolio simplification has made us even more dependent on the success of the new products that we are introducing. As we focus on growth opportunities, we are divesting or discontinuing non-strategic product categories and pursuing strategic acquisitions and investments, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We continue to review our product portfolio and update our non-strategic product categories and products. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business. If we are unable to effect sales on favorable terms or if realignment is more costly or distracting than we expect or has a negative effect on our organization, employees and retention, then our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Discontinuing products with service components may also cause us to continue to incur expenses to maintain services within the product life cycle or to adversely affect our customer and consumer relationships and brand. Divestitures may also involve warranties, indemnification or covenants that could restrict our business or result in litigation, additional expenses or liabilities. In addition, discontinuing product categories, even categories that we consider non-strategic, reduces the size and diversification of our business and causes us to be more dependent on a smaller number of product categories. As we attempt to grow our business in strategic product categories and emerging market geographies, we will consider growth through acquisition or investment. We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities. For example, we acquired ASTRO Gaming to expand into the console gaming market, we acquired Jaybird to expand into the wireless audio wearables market, we acquired Saitek to expand into the gaming simulation and controller markets, we acquired Blue Microphones to expand into the microphones market, and we acquired Streamlabs to expand our software and service capabilities and tools for the streaming market. Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and managements attention away from other business issues and opportunities. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could be harmed. Acquisitions could also result in the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, product, regulatory and other compliance issues, dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, disputes over earn-outs or other litigation, and adverse Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 25 Table of Contents effects on relationships with our and our targets employees, customers and suppliers. Moreover, our acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategy, product, financial or other objectives or expectations, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as future impairments of intangible assets and goodwill or the recording of share-based compensation. Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful and have led to impairment charges, including a $122.7 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2015 related to our Lifesize video conferencing business which is reported in discontinued operations. Acquisitions and divestitures may also cause our operating results to fluctuate and make it difficult for investors to compare operating results and financial statements between periods. In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours. If these investments are unsuccessful, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business. Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in or issues with their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information, changes in distribution partners, practices or models, conflicts among our channels of distribution, or failure to build and scale our own sales force for certain product categories and enterprise channel partners could adversely affect our business, results of operations, operating cash flows and financial condition. We primarily sell our products to a network of distributors, retailers and e-tailers (together with our direct sales channel partners). We are dependent on those direct sales channel partners to distribute and sell our products to indirect sales channel partners and ultimately to consumers. The sales and business practices of all such sales channel partners, their compliance with laws and regulations, and their reputations - of which we may or may not be aware - may affect our business and our reputation. While our overall distribution relationships are diffuse, over a quarter of our gross sales are concentrated with two customers - Amazon Inc. and Ingram Micro - and their affiliated entities. If online sales grow as a percentage of overall sales, we expect that we will become even more reliant on Amazon. While we believe that we have good relationships with Amazon and Ingram Micro, any adverse change in either of those relationships could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The impact of economic conditions, labor issues, natural disasters, regional or global pandemics, evolving consumer preferences, and purchasing patterns on our distribution partners, or competition between our sales channels, could result in sales channel disruption. For example, if sales at large retail stores are displaced as a result of bankruptcy, competition from Internet sales channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected and our product mix could change, which could adversely affect our operating costs and gross margins. The closure of brick-and-mortar stores around the world during the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated an already declining Bluetooth speaker market. COVID-19 has also underscored the risk of disruption in our sales channel at distribution partners such as Amazon. Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms, sell-through or delivery of our products to consumers, our reputation and brand equity, or our market share. Our sales channel partners also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors. If product competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms, have more products available to meet their needs, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, or if our sales channel partners show preference for their own house brands, our sales channel partners may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to maintain our distribution channels, our business will suffer. As we expand into new product categories and markets in pursuit of growth, we will have to build relationships with new channel partners and adapt to new distribution and marketing models. These new partners, practices and models may require significant management attention and operational resources and may affect our accounting, including revenue recognition, gross margins, and the ability to make comparisons from period to period. Entrenched and more experienced competitors will make these transitions difficult. Certain product categories, such Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 26 Table of Contents as Video Collaboration, may also require that we further build and scale our own enterprise sales force. Several of our competitors already have large enterprise sale forces and experience and success with that sales model. If we are unable to build successful distribution channels, build and scale our own enterprise sales force, or successfully market our products in these new product categories, we may not be able to take advantage of the growth opportunities, and our business and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. We reserve for cooperative marketing arrangements, incentive programs and pricing programs with our sales channel partners. These reserves are based on judgments and estimates, using historical experience rates, inventory levels in distribution, current trends and other factors. There could be significant differences between the actual costs of such arrangements and programs and our estimates. We use sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our direct retailer and e-tailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products. Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third-party nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products. In addition, the customers supplying sell-through data vary by geographic region and from period to period, but typically represent a majority of our retail sales. In addition, we rely on channel inventory data from our sales channel partners. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, or if we do not properly interpret this information, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area as well as potential tariffs, adverse tax consequences and pressure to move or diversify our manufacturing locations. We produce approximately half of our products at the facilities we own in China. The majority of our other production is performed by third-party contract manufacturers, including original design manufacturers, in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Vietnam, and Thailand. Our manufacturing operations in China could be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, strains on Chinas available labor pool, changes in labor costs and other employment dynamics, high turnover among Chinese employees, infrastructure issues, import-export issues, currency transfer restrictions, natural disasters, regional or global pandemics, conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, labor unrest, and other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of Chinas laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by regional or global pandemics, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, by increasing labor and other costs, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the local currency in the countries in which manufacturing occurs. Future appreciation of these local currencies could increase our component and other raw material costs. In addition, our labor costs could continue to rise as wage rates increase and the available labor pool declines. These conditions could adversely affect our financial results. If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales. Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world. We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products. If we do not successfully coordinate the timely manufacturing and distribution of our products, if our manufacturers, distribution logistics providers or transport providers are not able to successfully and timely process our business or if we do not receive timely and accurate information from such providers, and especially if we expand into new product categories or our business grows in volume, we may have an insufficient Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 27 Table of Contents supply of products to meet customer demand, we could lose sales, we may experience a build-up in inventory, we may incur additional costs, and our financial performance and reporting may be adversely affected. By locating our manufacturing in China and Southeast Asia, we are reliant on third parties to get our products to distributors around the world. Transportation costs, fuel costs, labor unrest, natural disasters, regional or global pandemics, and other adverse effects on our ability, timing and cost of delivering products can increase our inventory, decrease our margins, adversely affect our relationships with distributors and other customers and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our quarterly retail orders and product deliveries generally occur in the last weeks of the fiscal quarter. This places pressure on our supply chain and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we are unable to successfully fulfill customer orders in the quarter. We purchase key components and products from a limited number of sources, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected if supply were delayed or constrained or if there were shortages of required components. We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources. If the supply of these products or key components, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, were to be delayed or constrained, or if one or more of our single-source suppliers experience disruptions or go out of business as a result of adverse global economic conditions, natural disasters or regional or global pandemics, we might be unable to find a new supplier on acceptable terms, or at all, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Lead times for materials, components and products ordered by us or by our contract manufacturers can vary significantly and depend on factors such as contract terms, demand for a component, and supplier capacity. From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of components or subcontracted products, or our inability to procure these components or products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could delay shipment of our products or increase our production costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The moral and regulatory imperatives to avoid purchasing conflict minerals are causing us to incur additional expenses, could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products and could adversely affect the distribution and sales of our products. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to identify and prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. Additional reporting obligations are being considered by the European Union. The implementation of the existing U.S. requirements and any additional requirements in Europe could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, and the implementation of these requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may adversely affect our reputation. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could, if we are unable to satisfy their requirements or pass through any increased costs associated with meeting their requirements place us at a competitive disadvantage, adversely affect our business and operating results, or both. We filed our report for the calendar year 2018 with the SEC on May 31, 2019. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 28 Table of Contents We conduct operations in a number of countries and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us. We conduct operations in a number of countries and have invested significantly in growing our personnel and sales and marketing activities in China and, to a lesser extent, other emerging markets. We may also increase our investments to grow sales in other emerging markets, such as Latin America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; Compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental, tax, import/export and anti-corruption laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; Varying laws, regulations and other legal protections, uncertain and varying enforcement of those laws and regulations, dependence on local authorities, and the importance of local networks and relationships Varying accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, accountability and protections, including risks related to the lack of access by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) to inspect PCAOB-registered accounting firms in emerging market countries such as China; Exposure to political and financial instability, especially with the uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries and the stability of the European Union, which may lead to reduced sales, currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses; Political and economic uncertainty around the world; Import or export restrictions or licensing requirements that could affect some of our products, including those with encryption technology; Trade protection measures, custom duties, tariffs, import or export duties, and other trade barriers, restrictions and regulations, including recent and ongoing United States - China tariffs and trade restrictions; Lack of infrastructure or services necessary or appropriate to support our products and services; Effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that may be more concentrated where we operate internationally; Exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; Difficulties and increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition, including entrenched local competition; Weak protection of our intellectual property rights; Higher credit risks; Changes in VAT (value-added tax) or VAT reimbursement; Imposition of currency exchange controls; Delays from customs brokers or government agencies; and A broad range of customs, consumer trends, and more. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 29 Table of Contents Sales growth in key markets, including China, is an important part of our expectations for our business. As a result, if economic, political or business conditions deteriorate in these markets, or if one or more of the risks described above materialize in these markets, our overall business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Changes in trade policy in the United States and other countries, including changes in trade agreements and the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have adverse impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. government has indicated and demonstrated its intent to alter its approach to international trade policy through the renegotiation, and potential termination, of certain existing bilateral or multilateral trade agreements and treaties with, and the imposition of tariffs on a wide range of products and other goods from, China, countries in EMEA and other countries. As noted previously, we have invested significantly in manufacturing facilities in China and Southeast Asia. Given our manufacturing in those countries, and our lack of manufacturing elsewhere, policy changes in the United States or other countries, such as the tariffs already proposed, implemented and threatened in 2018 and 2019, present particular risks for us. Tariffs already announced and implemented are having an adverse effect on certain of our products, tariffs announced but not yet implemented may have an adverse effect on many of our products, and threatened tariffs could adversely affect more or all of our products. There are also risks associated with retaliatory tariffs and resulting trade wars. We cannot predict future trade policy, the terms of any renegotiated trade agreements or treaties, or tariffs and their impact on our business. A trade war could have a significant adverse effect on world trade and the world economy. To the extent that trade tariffs and other restrictions imposed by the United States or other countries increase the price of, or limit the amount of, our products or components or materials used in our products imported into the United States or other countries, or create adverse tax consequences, the sales, cost or gross margin of our products may be adversely affected and the demand from our customers for products and services may be diminished. Uncertainty surrounding international trade policy and disputes and protectionist measures could also have an adverse effect on consumer confidence and spending. If we deem it necessary to alter all or a portion of our activities or operations in response to such policies, agreements or tariffs, our capital and operating costs may increase. Our ongoing efforts to address these risks may not be effective and may have long-term adverse effects on our operations and operating results that we may not be able to reverse. Such efforts may also take time to implement or to have an effect, and may result in adverse quarterly financial results or fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. As a result, changes in international trade policy, changes in trade agreements and tariffs could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Therefore, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to movements in currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. For fiscal year 2020 , approximately 50% of our revenue was in non-U.S. denominated currencies. The weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and earnings. If we raise international pricing to compensate, it could potentially reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our sales and potentially having an adverse impact on our market share. Margins on sales of our products in non-U.S. Dollar-denominated countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers in non-U.S. Dollar-denominated countries could be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to fully offset the U.S. Dollars strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S. Dollar-denominated sales and earnings. Competitive conditions in the markets in which we operate may also limit our ability to increase prices in the event of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Conversely, strengthening of currency rates may also increase our product component costs and other expenses denominated in those currencies, adversely affecting operating results. We further note that a larger portion of our sales than of our expenses are denominated in non-U.S. denominated currencies. We use derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in currency exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place and do not protect us from long term shifts in currency exchange rates. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 30 Table of Contents As a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, these exposures may change over time. As a company operating in many markets and jurisdictions, expanding into new growth categories, and engaging in acquisitions, and as a Swiss, dual-listed company, we are subject to risks associated with new, existing and potential future laws and regulations. Based on our current business model and as we expand into new markets and product categories and acquire companies, businesses and assets, we must comply with a wide variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, health and safety, hazardous materials usage, product-related energy consumption, packaging, recycling and environmental matters. Our products may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where they are manufactured, sold or both. Companies, businesses and assets that we acquire may not be in compliance with regulations in all jurisdictions. These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs, and reputational harm and, in severe cases, force us to recall products or prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions. As a Swiss company with shares listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we are also subject to both Swiss and United States corporate governance and securities laws and regulations. In addition to the extra costs and regulatory burdens of our dual regulatory obligations, the two regulatory regimes may not always be compatible and may impose disclosure obligations, operating restrictions or tax effects on our business to which our competitors and other companies are not subject. For example, on January 1, 2014, subject to certain transitional provisions, the Swiss Federal Council Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation at Public Companies (the Ordinance) became effective in connection with the Minder initiative approved by Swiss voters during 2013. The Ordinance, among other things, (a) requires a binding shareholder say on pay vote with respect to the compensation of members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (b) generally prohibits the making of severance, advance, transaction premiums and similar payments to members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (c) imposes other restrictive compensation practices, and (d) requires that our articles of incorporation specify various compensation-related matters. In addition, during 2013, Swiss voters considered an initiative to limit pay for a chief executive officer to a multiple of no more than twelve times the salary of the lowest-paid employee. Although voters rejected that initiative, it did receive substantial voter support. The Ordinance, potential future initiatives relating to corporate governance or executive compensation, and Swiss voter sentiment in favor of such regulations may increase our non-operating costs and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and members of our Board of Directors. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) which are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB, the SEC and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. New accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting principles have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future which may have a significant effect on our financial results or our compliance with regulations. As a result of changes in tax laws, treaties, rulings, regulations or agreements, or their interpretation, of Switzerland or any other country in which we operate, the loss of a major tax dispute or a successful challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries, or other factors, our effective income tax rates may increase, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows. We are incorporated in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland, and our effective income tax rate benefited from a longstanding ruling from the canton of Vaud through December 31, 2019. On May 19, 2019, the voters in Switzerland approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing ("TRAF"), a major reform in response to certain guidance and demands from both the European Union and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. TRAF mandates reforms in the cantonal tax law that were enacted by the canton of Vaud on March 10, 2020 and took effect as of January 1, 2020. As a result of the reform, Logitech will incur cash income taxes that will increase over time as the deferred income tax benefit established in connection with the reform diminishes. See "Note 7 - Income Taxes" for more information. The cantons tax authority is primarily delegated by the Swiss federal government and its implementation of TRAF in general or with respect to Logitech is subject to Swiss federal review and challenge. Implementation of any material change in tax laws or policies or the adoption of new interpretations of existing tax laws and rulings, or termination or replacement of our tax arrangements with the canton of Vaud, by Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 31 Table of Contents Switzerland or the canton of Vaud could result in a higher effective income tax rate, or a decreased tax asset, a charge to earnings and an accelerated pace of increase in our effective income tax rate, or a combination of such impacts, on our worldwide earnings and any such change will adversely affect our net income. Changes in our effective income tax rate may also make it more difficult to compare our net income and earnings per share between periods. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws, treaties, rulings, regulations or agreements in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and changes in managements assessment of matters such as the realizability of deferred tax assets. In the past, we have experienced fluctuations in our effective income tax rate. Our effective income tax rate in a given fiscal year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in the succeeding fiscal year or years. There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. We are frequently subject to tax audits, examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries, if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective income tax rate could increase. For example, policy changes in the United States or China predicated on our presence in those countries could adversely affect where we recognize profit and our effective income tax rate. A material assessment by a governing tax authority could adversely affect our profitability. If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income and cash flows could be adversely affected. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could adversely affect our business. We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, such as entering new markets and introducing products for tablets, other mobile devices, digital music, and video collaboration. We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets. As we do so, we face an increased risk that claims alleging we infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit of the claims, may increase in number and significance. Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap. This risk is heightened by the increase in lawsuits brought by holders of patents that do not have an operating business or are attempting to license broad patent portfolios and by the increasing attempts by companies in the technology industries to enjoin their competitors from selling products that they claim infringe their intellectual property rights. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. A successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. We might also be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation or the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of our technology may result in the development of products that compete with our products. Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions such as nondisclosure terms and licenses, to protect our intellectual property. We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries. It is possible that any patent owned by us will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will not be granted. In addition, other intellectual property laws or our confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Also, others may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 32 Table of Contents around our patents or other intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation, business and our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and technologies. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product liability claims and litigation, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. While we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase liability insurance, our reserves may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities and our insurance is subject to deductibles and may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities. Furthermore, our contracts with distributors and retailers may contain warranty, indemnification and other provisions related to product quality issues, and claims under those provisions may adversely affect our business and operating results. Significant disruptions in, or breaches in security of, our websites or information technology systems could adversely affect our business. As a consumer electronics company, our websites are an important presentation of our company, identity and brands and an important means of interaction with and source of information for consumers of our products. We also rely on our centralized information technology systems for product-related information and to store intellectual property, forecast our business, maintain financial records, manage operations and inventory, and operate other critical functions. We allocate significant resources to maintain our information technology systems and deploy network security, data encryption, training and other measures to protect against unauthorized access or misuse. Nevertheless, our websites and information technology systems are susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, structural or operational failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, other data security issues, telecommunication failures, user error, malfeasance, catastrophes, system or software upgrades, integration or migration, or other foreseeable and unforeseen events. From time to time, we and our suppliers have identified vulnerabilities or other issues that we believe have been addressed, and we expect such issues to continue to arise. Moreover, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there is an increased risk that we may experience security breach related incidents as a result of our employees, service providers, and third parties working remotely on less secure systems. Breaches or disruptions of our websites or information technology systems, breaches of confidential information, data corruption or other data security issues could adversely affect our brands, reputation, relationships with customers or business partners, or consumer or investor perception of our company, business or products or result in disruptions of our operations, loss of intellectual property or our customers or our business partners data, reduced value of our investments in our brands, design, research and development or engineering, or costs to address regulatory inquiries or actions or private litigation, to respond to customers or partners or to rebuild or restore our websites or information technology systems. The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of user data could give rise to liabilities and additional costs of operation as a result of laws, governmental regulation and risks of security breaches. In connection with certain of our products, we collect data related to our consumers. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and especially in Europe. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is applicable to us and to all companies processing data of European Union residents, became effective in May 2018 and imposes significant fines and sanctions for violation of the Regulation. Government actions are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information and its collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution in or from the governing jurisdiction. In addition, because various jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the use, storage and transmission of such information, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in existing markets as well as new international markets that we seek to enter. The collection of user data heightens the risk of security breaches and other data security issues related to our IT systems and the systems of third-party data storage and other service and IT providers. Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, as well as additional security measures and risk, could subject us to costs, allocation of additional resources, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 33 Table of Contents In previous periods, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, if we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. In connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and as recently as our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we have identified in the past and may, from time-to-time in the future, identify issues with our internal controls and deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Certain of those material weaknesses resulted in late filings of and an amendment to our periodic reports and in restatements of our financial results. A material weakness indicates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, we could be subject to litigation which, whether meritorious or not, remediation efforts could be time consuming, costly and/or divert significant operational resources, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and our reputation, business, results of operations and stock price could be adversely affected. We cannot ensure that our current share repurchase program will be fully utilized or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value. Share repurchases may also increase the volatility of the trading price of our shares. We similarly cannot ensure that we will continue to increase our dividend payments or to pay dividends at all. Share repurchases and dividends diminish our cash reserves. In May 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a three-year $250.0 million repurchase program of our registered shares. We have also paid cash dividends and increased the size of our dividend, each year since fiscal year 2013. Our share repurchase program and dividend policy may be affected by many factors, including general business and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our views on potential future capital requirements, restrictions imposed in any future debt agreements, the emergence of alternative investment or acquisition opportunities, changes in our business strategy, legal requirements, changes in tax laws, and other factors. Our share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase all or any of the dollar value of shares authorized for repurchase. The program could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our shares. Similarly, we are not obligated to pay dividends on our registered shares. Under Swiss law, we may only pay dividends upon the approval of a majority of our shareholders, which is under the discretion of and generally follows a recommendation by our Board of Directors that such a dividend is in the best interests of our shareholders. There can be no assurance that our Board of Directors will continue to recommend, or that our shareholders will approve, dividend increases or any dividend at all. If we do not pay a regular dividend, we may lose the interest of investors that focus their investments on dividend-paying companies, which could create downward pressure on our share price. Any announcement of termination or suspension of our share repurchase program or dividend may result in a decrease in our share price. The share repurchase program and payment of cash dividends could also diminish our cash reserves that may be needed for investments in our business, acquisitions or other purposes. Without dividends, the trading price of our shares must appreciate for investors to realize a gain on their investment. Goodwill impairment charges could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. Goodwill associated with a number of previous acquisitions could result in impairment charges. The slowdown in the overall video conferencing industry together with the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013 resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2013, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations. We recorded an additional impairment charge of goodwill of $122.7 million related to our Lifesize video conferencing discontinued operations in fiscal year 2015, reducing its goodwill to zero, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations again. If we divest or discontinue product categories or products that we previously acquired, or if the value of those parts of our business become impaired, we may need to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill. Additional impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 34 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 35 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our headquarters is located in Lausanne, Switzerland, where we occupy approximately 50,500 square feet under a lease that expires in July 2020. Our principal corporate and administrative offices, which includes our headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland, and corporate offices in Newark, California and Hsinchu, Taiwan, together make up approximately 286,000 square feet of leased space. Both our Lausanne, Switzerland and Newark, California locations serve our research and development, product marketing, sales management, technical support and administrative functions. Our Hsinchu, Taiwan location serves our mechanical engineering, process engineering, manufacturing support, quality assurance, design, research and development, and administrative functions. We maintain marketing and channel support offices in approximately 77 locations and 40 countries, with lease expiration dates from 2020 to 2031. As of March 31, 2020 , the majority of our properties are leased; however, we also own some of the manufacturing units and employee dormitories in Suzhou, China, from which we occupy approximately 722,000 square feet. We anticipate no difficulty in extending the leases of our facilities or obtaining comparable facilities in suitable locations. We also contract with various third-party distribution centers in North America, South America, Europe and Asia Pacific for additional warehouses in which we store inventory. We believe that our manufacturing and distribution facilities are adequate for our ongoing needs and we continue to evaluate the need for facilities to meet current and anticipated future requirements. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time-to-time, we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on the currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors. Any failure to obtain a necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect our business. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None . Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 36 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Logitech's shares are listed and traded on both the SIX Swiss Exchange, where the share price is denominated in Swiss francs and on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, where the share price is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The trading symbol for Logitech shares is LOGN on the SIX Swiss Exchange and LOGI on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. As of May 18, 2020 , there were 173,106,620 shares issued (including 5,289,052 shares held as treasury stock) held by 17,146 holders of record, and the closing price of our shares was CHF 53.00 ($54.55 based on exchange rates on such date) per share on the SIX Swiss Exchange and $54.64 per share as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Dividends Under Swiss law, a corporation may only pay dividends upon a vote of its shareholders. This vote typically follows the recommendation of the corporation's Board of Directors. In May 2020, the Board of Directors recommended that the Company increase the cash dividend for fiscal year 2020 by approximately 10% to CHF 134.0 million ( $138.7 million based on the exchange rate on March 31, 2020). On September 4, 2019, Logitech's shareholders approved a cash dividend payment of CHF 121.8 million out of retained earnings to Logitech's shareholders who owed shares on September 19, 2019. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.73 per share ($0.74 per share in U.S. Dollars), totaling $124.2 million in U.S. Dollars on September 20, 2019. On September 5, 2018, Logitech's shareholders approved a cash dividend payment of CHF 110.7 million out of retained earnings to Logitech shareholders who owned shares on September 18, 2018. Eligible shareholders were paid CHF 0.67 per share ( $0.69 per share in U.S. Dollars), totaling $114.0 million in U.S. Dollars on September 21, 2018. Dividends paid and similar cash or in-kind distributions made by Logitech to a holder of Logitech shares (including dividends or liquidation proceeds and stock dividends), other than distributions of qualifying additional paid-in-capital if it is available under the current Swiss tax regime, are subject to a Swiss federal anticipatory tax at a rate of 35%. The anticipatory tax must be withheld by Logitech from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A Swiss resident holder and beneficial owner of Logitech shares may qualify for a full refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from such dividends. A holder and beneficial owner of Logitech shares who is a non-resident of Switzerland, but a resident of a country that maintains a double tax treaty with Switzerland, may qualify for a full or partial refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from such dividends by virtue of the provisions of the applicable treaty between Switzerland and the country of residence of the holder and beneficial owner of the Logitech shares. In accordance with the tax convention between the United States and the Swiss Confederation (Treaty), a mechanism is provided whereby a U.S. resident (as determined under the Treaty), and U.S. corporations, other than U.S. corporations having a "permanent establishment" or a fixed base, as defined in the Treaty, in Switzerland, generally can obtain a refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from dividends in respect of Logitech shares, to the extent that 15% of the gross dividend is withheld as final withholding tax (i.e. 20% of the gross dividend may generally be refunded). In specific cases, U.S. companies not having a "permanent establishment" or a fixed base in Switzerland owning at least 10% of Logitech registered shares may receive a refund of the Swiss anticipatory tax withheld from dividends to the extent it exceeds 5% of the gross dividend (i.e., 30% of the gross dividend may be refunded). To get the benefit of a refund, holders must beneficially own Logitech shares at the time such dividend becomes due. Share Repurchases In fiscal year 2020, the following approved share buyback program was in place (in thousands): Share Buyback Program Approved Shares (1) Approved Amounts March 2017 17,311 $ 250,000 (1) The approval of our share buyback programs by the Swiss Takeover Board limits the number of shares that we may repurchase to no more than 10% of our authorized share capital and voting rights. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 37 Table of Contents The following table presents certain information related to purchases made by Logitech of its equity securities under its publicly announced share buyback programs (in thousands, except per share amounts): Weighted Average Price Per Share Remaining Amount that May Yet Be Repurchased under the Program During Fiscal Year Ended Shares Repurchased CHF (LOGN) USD (LOGI) March 31, 2018 863 34.53 $ 219,893 March 31, 2019 808 39.58 $ 187,433 March 31, 2020 1,251 38.91 $ 137,386 Total Number of Shares Repurchased Weighted Average Price Paid Per Share Remaining Amount that May Yet Be Repurchased under the Program During the three months ended March 31, 2020 CHF (LOGN) USD (LOGI) Month 1 December 28, 2019 to January 24, 2020 $ 172,409 Month 2 January 26, 2020 to February 21, 2020 228 43.03 162,432 Month 3 February 23, 2020 to March 31, 2020 634 37.32 137,386 862 38.83 $ 137,386 The 2017 share buyback program expired in April 2020. Performance Graph The information contained in the Performance Graph shall not be deemed to be "soliciting material" or "filed" with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), or the Exchange Act . Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 38 Table of Contents The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares, the Nasdaq Composite Index, and the S&P 500 Information and Technology Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our LOGI shares, the Nasdaq Composite Index and the S&P 500 Information and Technology Index on March 31, 2015, and calculates the annual return through March 31, 2020 . The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. ________________________________________ *$100 invested on March 31, 2015, in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Copyright 2020 Standard & Poor's, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. March 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Logitech $ 100 $ 126 $ 258 $ 303 $ 329 $ 366 Nasdaq Composite Index $ 100 $ 101 $ 124 $ 149 $ 165 $ 166 S&P 500 Information and Technology Index $ 100 $ 108 $ 135 $ 172 $ 199 $ 220 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data This financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in the future. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 39 Table of Contents Years ended March 31, 2020 (1) 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands, except for per share amounts) Consolidated statement of operations and cash flow data Net sales $ 2,975,851 $ 2,788,322 $ 2,566,863 $ 2,221,427 $ 2,018,100 Operating income $ 276,495 $ 263,194 $ 229,733 $ 211,860 $ 129,058 Net income from continuing operations (1) $ 449,723 $ 257,573 $ 208,542 $ 205,876 $ 128,362 Loss from discontinued operations (2) $ $ $ $ $ (9,045 ) Net income $ 449,723 $ 257,573 $ 208,542 $ 205,876 $ 119,317 Net income (loss) per share - basic: Continuing operations $ 2.70 $ 1.56 $ 1.27 $ 1.27 $ 0.79 Discontinued operations $ $ $ $ $ (0.06 ) Net income per share - basic $ 2.70 $ 1.56 $ 1.27 $ 1.27 $ 0.73 Net Income (loss) per share - diluted: Continuing operations $ 2.66 $ 1.52 $ 1.23 $ 1.24 $ 0.77 Discontinued operations $ $ $ $ $ (0.05 ) Net income per share - diluted $ 2.66 $ 1.52 $ 1.23 $ 1.24 $ 0.72 Cash dividend per share $ 0.74 $ 0.69 $ 0.63 $ 0.57 $ 0.53 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 425,000 $ 305,181 $ 346,261 $ 288,389 $ 185,195 Net cash used in investing activities (3) $ (130,234 ) $ (173,345 ) $ (128,704 ) $ (99,679 ) $ (59,975 ) March 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (4) Consolidated balance sheet data Cash and cash equivalents $ 715,566 $ 604,516 $ 641,947 $ 547,533 $ 519,195 Total assets $ 2,363,474 $ 2,024,124 $ 1,743,157 $ 1,498,677 $ 1,324,147 Total shareholders' equity $ 1,489,268 $ 1,176,339 $ 1,050,557 $ 856,111 $ 759,948 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) On March 10, 2020, TRAF was enacted in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland to take effect as of January 1, 2020. TRAF specifies mandatory and voluntary provisions that are implemented through the modification of the cantonal tax law. Major mandatory federal tax provisions include abolishment of preferential cantonal tax regimes, introduction of patent box regime and tax-free step-up of intangible assets, including goodwill created under a privileged tax regime. We have benefited from a longstanding tax ruling from the canton of Vaud through December 31, 2019. We reached an agreement with the Vaud Tax Administration that would allow for a tax step-up of goodwill to be amortized over ten years beginning on January 1, 2020 as a transition measure. We recorded an income tax benefit of $151.7 million , net of unrecognized tax benefits to account for the book and tax basis difference of the step-up upon enactment. (2) On December 28, 2015, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and, as a result, we have reflected the Lifesize video conferencing business as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations data above for all periods noted. Historical cash flows from discontinued operations were not material and are included in the cash flow data above. (3) The line item previously called "change in restricted cash" has been eliminated from the statements of cash flows and instead restricted cash has been included in the cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash line items to conform to the consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2020 due to the adoption of ASU 2016-18. The impact was not material. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 40 Table of Contents (4) The above consolidated cash and cash equivalents exclude Lifesize video conferencing business. Logitech International S.A. | Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K | 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth above in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and below in Item 7A,