ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our strategy for growth, future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance, and market position, our business strategy, the impact of investment prioritization decisions, product offerings, sales and marketing initiatives, strategic investments, addressing execution challenges, trends in consumer demand affecting our products and markets, trends in the composition of our customer base, our current or future revenue and revenue mix by product, among our lower- and higher-margin products, our new product introductions and by geographic region, our expectations regarding the potential growth opportunities for our products in mature and emerging markets and the enterprise market, our expectations regarding economic conditions in international markets, including China, Russia and Ukraine, our expectations regarding trends in global economic conditions and consumer demand for PCs and mobile devices, tablets, gaming, audio, pointing devices, wearables, remotes and other accessories and computer devices and the interoperability of our products with such third party platforms, our expectations regarding the convergence of markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, our expectations regarding the growth of cloud-based services, our expected reduction in size of our product portfolio and dependence on new products, our competitive position and the effect of pricing, product, marketing and other initiatives by us and our competitors, the potential that our new products will overlap with our current products, our expectations regarding competition from well-established consumer electronics companies in existing and new markets, potential tariffs, their effects and our ability to mitigate their effects, our expectations regarding the recoverability of our goodwill, goodwill impairment charge estimates and the potential for future impairment charges, the impact of our current and proposed product divestitures, changes in our planned divestitures, restructuring of our organizational structure and the timing thereof, our expectations regarding the success of our strategic acquisitions, including integration of acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams, significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates and commodity prices, the impact of new product introductions and product innovation on future performance or anticipated costs and expenses and the timing thereof, resolution of our North American distribution center issues, cash flows, the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated and available borrowings (including the availability of our uncommitted lines of credit) to fund future cash requirements, our expectations regarding future sales compared to actual sales, our expectations regarding share repurchases, dividend payments and share cancellations, our expectations regarding our future working capital requirements and our anticipated capital expenditures needed to support our product development and expanded operations, our expectations regarding our future tax benefits, tax settlements, the adequacy of our provisions for uncertain tax positions, our expectations regarding our potential indemnification obligations, and the outcome of pending or future legal proceedings and tax audits, our expectations regarding the impact of new accounting pronouncements on our operating results, and our ability to achieve and sustain renewed growth, profitability and future success. Forward-looking statements also include, among others, those statements including the words anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict,, "seek", should, will, and similar language. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual performance to differ materially from that anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Overview of Our Company Logitech is a world leader in designing, manufacturing and marketing products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences. More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud. Logitech's brands include Logitech, Logitech G, ASTRO Gaming, Ultimate Ears, Jaybird and Blue Microphones. Our Company's website is www.logitech.com. 22 Table of Contents Our products participate in five large markets that all have growth opportunities: Gaming, Video Collaboration, Smart Home, Music, and Creativity & Productivity. We sell our products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers, and indirect sales through distributors. Our worldwide channel network includes consumer electronics distributors, retailers, mass merchandisers, specialty stores, computer and telecommunications stores, value-added resellers and online merchants. From time to time, we may seek to partner with, or acquire when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction. We continually review our product offerings and our strategic direction in light of our profitability targets, competitive conditions, changing consumer trends and the evolving nature of the interface between the consumer and the digital world. Summary of Financial Results Our total sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 6% , compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018 , supported by stronger sales in the Americas and EMEA. Blue Microphones contributed 2 points to the sales growth during the period. Our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 6% and 12% in the Americas and EMEA, respectively, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 in Asia Pacific were flat compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 30 basis points to 37.1% from 36.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 . Our gross margin benefited from product cost savings, tariff mitigation efforts and product mix, partially offset by an increase in China tariffs and unfavorable currency exchange. Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 remained flat compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating expenses were 29.7% of sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to 31.5% of sales in the same period of the prior fiscal year. Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $45.3 million , compared to $38.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 . Trends in Our Business Our strategy focuses on five large multi-category markets, including Gaming, Video Collaboration, Music, Smart Home and Creativity & Productivity. We see opportunities to deliver growth in all these markets. We believe our future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, including gaming, digital music devices, video and computing. The following discussion represents key trends specific to our market opportunities. Trends Specific to Our Five Market Opportunities Creativity & Productivity: Although new PC shipments continue to be weak, the installed base of PC users remains large. We believe that innovative PC peripherals, such as our mice and keyboards, can renew the PC usage experience, thus providing growth opportunities. Increasing adoption of various cloud-based applications has led to multiple new consumer use cases, which we are addressing with our innovative product portfolio. The increasing popularity of streaming and broadcasting provides additional growth opportunities for our Webcam products . Smaller mobile computing devices, such as tablets, have created new markets and usage models for peripherals and accessories. We offer a number of products to enhance the use of mobile devices, including a combo backlit keyboard case for the iPad Pro and keyboard folios for the iPad and iPad mini. In fiscal year 2019, we saw a recovery of the iPad tablet market, and our Tablet & Other Accessories category has benefited from the recovery along with our innovative products. Gaming: The PC gaming and console gaming platforms continue to show strong structural growth opportunities as online gaming, multi-platform experiences, and esports gain greater popularity and gaming content becomes increasingly more demanding. We believe Logitech is well positioned to benefit from the gaming market growth. With ASTRO Gaming, we are also strengthening our portfolio in adjacent categories, such as the console controller market. 23 Table of Contents Video Collaboration: The near and long-term structural growth opportunities in the video collaboration market are significant and, as a result, that market is continuing to attract more competition. Video meetings are on the rise, and companies increasingly want lower-cost, cloud-based solutions. We are continuing our efforts to create and sell innovative products to accommodate the increasing demand from medium and large-sized meeting rooms to small-sized rooms such as huddle rooms. We will continue to invest in select business-specific products, targeted product marketing and sales channel development. Music: The music market grew during fiscal year 2019, driven by growing consumption of music through mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. The integration of personal voice assistants has become increasingly competitive in the speaker categories, but the market for third-party, voice-enabled speakers has not yet gained traction. Moreover, the market for mobile speakers appears to be maturing, which led to a decline in Ultimate Ears sales in fiscal year 2019. In fiscal year 2019, the headphone industry continued to flourish with strong revenue growth. The largest growth was seen in wireless headphones where the market tripled year-over-year and where there was a substantial increase to average selling prices. Continued growth in the headphone market is expected for the next several years as consumers increasingly adopt wireless headphones over wired headphones. With Blue Microphones, we are strengthening our portfolio in adjacent categories, such as the microphones market . Smart Home: Our remote business declined substantially in fiscal year 2019 as the attachment to the voice assistants of Harmony Hub-based remote controls was not a sustainable trend. In general, the space is under pressure as the way people consume content is changing. We will continue to explore other innovative experiences for the Smart Home category. Business Seasonality, Product Introductions and Acquisitions We have historically experienced higher sales in our third fiscal quarter ending December 31, compared to other fiscal quarters in our fiscal year, primarily due to the increased consumer demand for our products during the year-end holiday buying season and year-end spending by enterprises. Additionally, new product introductions and business acquisitions can significantly impact sales, product costs and operating expenses. Product introductions can also impact our sales to our distribution channels as these channels are filled with new product inventory following a product introduction, and often channel inventory of an earlier model product declines as the next related major product launch approaches. Sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction or changes in business circumstances. However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns of product introductions should be considered reliable indicators of our future pattern of product introductions, future sales or financial performance. Swiss Federal Tax Reform On May 19, 2019, the Swiss electorate approved TRAF, a major reform to better align the Swiss tax system with international tax standards. The tax reform is expected to take effect on January 1, 2020. As of June 30, 2019, TRAF has not been enacted as the federal and cantonal legislative procedures are in process. We have benefited from a longstanding tax ruling from the canton of Vaud through March 31, 2019. We continue to monitor the enactment process and our transitional measures to comply with federal and cantonal tax reform provisions. We anticipate an increase in our cash tax payments in Switzerland beginning in fiscal year 2020. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, valuation of operating right-of-use assets, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs and related breakage when appropriate, accrued sales return liability, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. We consider an accounting estimate critical if it: (i) requires management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain; and (ii) is important to an understanding of our financial condition and operating results. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact us in the future, actual results could differ from those estimates. 24 Table of Contents Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Other than the recent accounting pronouncement adoptions and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies discussed in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there have been no substantial changes in our significant accounting policies during the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared with the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 . Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements adopted and to be adopted. Impact of Constant Currency We refer to our sales growth rates excluding the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations as "constant dollar" sales growth rates. Percentage of constant dollar sales growth is calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current periods average exchange rate for that currency and comparing that to current period sales. Given our global sales presence and the reporting of our financial results in U.S. Dollars, our financial results could be affected by shifts in currency exchange rates. See Results of Operations for information on the effect of currency exchange rate results on our sales. If the U.S. Dollar appreciates or depreciates in comparison to other currencies in future periods, this will affect our results of operations in future periods as well. References to Sales References to sales mean net sales, except as otherwise specified, and the sales growth discussion and sales growth rate percentages are based on U.S. Dollars, except as otherwise specified. Sales Denominated in Other Currencies Although our financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, a portion of our sales was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Taiwan New Dollar, British Pound and Australian Dollar. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 , approximately 47% of our sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Results of Operations Net Sales Our sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased 6% compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, driven by sales increases in the Americas and EMEA regions. Blue Microphones contributed 2 percentage points of the sales growth rate during the period. Strong growth in Mobile Speakers, Video Collaboration, Audio & Wearables and Tablet and other Accessories was partially offset by a decline in sales for Pointing Devices, PC Webcams and Gaming. If currency exchange rates had been constant in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 , our constant dollar sales growth rates would have been 9% . 25 Table of Contents Sales by Region The following table presents the change in sales by region for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared with the three months ended June 30, 2018 : Sales Growth Rate Constant Dollar Sales Growth Rate Americas 6 % 7 % EMEA 12 % 17 % Asia Pacific % 5 % Americas: The increase in sales in our Americas region was primarily driven by growth in Mobile Speakers, Audio & Wearables, Video Collaboration and Tablets and Other Accessories, partially offset by a decline in sales for Pointing Devices and PC Webcams. EMEA: The increase in sales in our EMEA region was primarily driven by growth in Mobile Speakers, Video Collaboration and Tablets and Other Accessories, partially offset by a decline in sales for Pointing Devices. Asia Pacific: The sales in our Asia Pacific region were flat. Growth in Video Collaboration was offset by a decline in sales for Mobile Speakers. Sales by Product Categories Sales by product categories for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (Dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 Change Pointing Devices $ 121,983 $ 127,790 (5 )% Keyboards & Combos 128,679 128,222 PC Webcams 28,128 29,674 (5 ) Tablet & Other Accessories 38,339 32,436 18 Video Collaboration 73,424 58,792 25 Mobile Speakers 50,416 34,327 47 Audio & Wearables 58,624 52,154 12 Gaming 134,515 136,026 (1 ) Smart Home 9,864 9,011 9 Other (1) 253 48 427 Total sales $ 644,225 $ 608,480 6 % (1) Other category includes products that we currently intend to phase out, or have already phased out, because they are no longer strategic to our business. Creativity & Productivity Market: Pointing Devices Our Pointing Devices category comprises PC- and Mac-related mice including trackballs, touchpads and presenters. 26 Table of Contents Sales of Pointing Devices decreased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was across all regions and products types, including corded mice, cordless mice and presentation tools. Keyboards & Combos Our Keyboards & Combos category comprises PC keyboards, living room keyboards and keyboard/mice combo products. Sales of Keyboards & Combos remained flat in the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in sales for keyboards was offset by a decline in sales for keyboard/mice combos. PC Webcams Our PC Webcams category comprises PC-based webcams targeted primarily at consumers. PC Webcams sales decreased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily driven by a decline in the sales of our HD Pro Webcam C920. Tablet & Other Accessories Our Tablet & Other Accessories category primarily comprises keyboards for tablets. Sales of Tablet & Other Accessories products increased 18% in the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year . The increase was primarily driven by the sales of our Slim Folio keyboard cases for the iPad 5th/6th Generation introduced in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 and Slim Folio keyboard cases for the 12.9" and 11" iPad Pro introduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, partially offset by a decline in the sales of our Slim Combo keyboard cases for the iPad Pro. Gaming market: Our Gaming category compris es gaming mice, keyboards, headsets, gamepads, steering wheels, simulation controllers, console gaming headsets and console gaming controllers. Gaming sales decreased 1% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily driven by declines in the sales of our gaming headsets and console gaming headsets, partially offset by increases in the sales of PC gaming mice and console gaming controllers. Video Collaboration market: Our Video Collaboration category primarily includes Logitechs ConferenceCams, which combines affordable enterprise-quality audio and high definition (HD) 1080p video to bring video conferencing to businesses of any size. Sales of Video Collaboration products increased 25% in the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily driven by the sales of our Rally Ultra-HD PTZ Conference Camera introduced in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 and an increase in the sales of our MeetUp video conference camera. Music market: Mobile Speakers Our Mobile Speakers category is made up entirely of Bluetooth wireless speakers. Sales of Mobile Speakers increased 47% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to the sales of our Ultimate Ears MEGABOOM 3 and BOOM 3 mobile speakers introduced in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, the sales of our WONDERBOOM 2 27 Table of Contents introduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and an increase in the sales of Ultimate Ears MEGABOOM, partially offset by declines in the sales for other existing Ultimate Ears speakers. Audio & Wearables Our Audio & Wearables category comprises PC speakers, PC headsets, in-ear headphones, premium wireless audio wearables and studio-quality microphones for professionals and consumers. Audio & Wearables sales increased 12% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Th e increase wa s primarily driven by the sales of our Blue Microphones products as a result of our business combination in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, partially offset by a decline in the sales of our corded headsets, PC speakers and Jaybird products. Smart Home market: Our Smart Home category mainly comprises our Harmony line of advanced home entertainment controllers and home security cameras. Smart Home sales increased 9% during the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year . The increase was primarily due to an increase in the sales of our home video products, partially offset by declines in sales of our Harmony remote products. Gross Profit Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (Dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 Change Net sales $ 644,225 $ 608,480 6 % Gross profit $ 238,976 $ 223,937 7 Gross margin 37.1 % 36.8 % Gross profit consists of sales less cost of goods sold (which includes materials, direct labor and related overhead costs, costs of manufacturing facilities, royalties, costs of purchasing components from outside suppliers, distribution costs, warranty costs, customer support, shipping and handling costs, outside processing costs and write-down of inventories), amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting effect on inventory. 28 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (Dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 Marketing and selling $ 123,033 $ 114,584 % of sales 19.1 % 18.8 % Research and development 42,243 38,987 % of sales 6.6 % 6.4 % General and administrative 22,159 25,473 % of sales 3.4 % 4.2 % Amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs 3,596 2,521 % of sales 0.6 % 0.4 % Restructuring charges, net 478 9,921 % of sales % (1) 1.6 % Total operating expenses $ 191,509 $ 191,486 % of sales 29.7 % 31.5 % (1) Absolute value for % of sales is less than 0.1%. Marketing and Selling Marketing and selling expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, technical support for customer experiences and facilities costs. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 , marketing and selling expenses increased $8.4 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The increases were primarily driven by higher advertising and marketing expenses and higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount, partly resulting from the Blue Microphones acquisition. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of personnel and related overhead costs, contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 , research and development expenses increased $3.3 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily driven by higher personnel-related costs due to increased headcount, partly resulting from the Blue Microphones acquisition. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead, information technology, and facilities costs for the infrastructure functions such as finance, information systems, executives, human resources, and legal. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 , general and administrative expenses decreased $3.3 million , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease for the three-month period was primarily driven by lower personnel-related costs. 29 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangible Assets and Acquisition-Related Costs Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization of acquired intangible assets, including customer relationships and trade names. Acquisition-related costs include legal expense, due diligence costs, and other professional costs incurred for business acquisitions. The increase in amortization of intangible assets during the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily driven by the intangible assets acquired through the Blue Microphones acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. Restructuring Charges, Net During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we implemented a restructuring plan to streamline and realign our overall organizational structure and reallocate resources to support our long-term growth opportunities. In July, 2018, our Board of Directors approved additional costs under this restructuring plan, totaling pre-tax charges of approximately $10.0 million to $15.0 million , of which $11.8 million has been recognized cumulatively as of June 30, 2019 . The total charges consisted of cash severance and other personnel costs and are presented as restructuring charges, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. As of June 30, 2019 , the Company has substantially completed this restructuring plan. The following table summarizes restructuring related activities during the three months ended June 30, 2019 (in thousands): Termination Benefits Accrual balance at March 31, 2019 $ 4,389 Charges 478 Cash payments (1,956 ) Accrual balance at June 30, 2019 $ 2,911 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 Investment income related to a deferred compensation plan $ 589 $ 214 Currency exchange gain (loss), net 817 (1,874 ) Gain (loss) on investments 211 (13 ) Other 244 102 Total $ 1,861 $ (1,571 ) Investment income represents earnings, gains, and losses on trading investments related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries. Currency exchange gain (loss), net relates to balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency in our subsidiaries, as well as to the sale of currencies, and to gains or losses recognized on currency exchange forward contracts. We do not speculate in currency positions, but we are alert to opportunities to maximize currency exchange gains and minimize currency exchange losses. 30 Table of Contents Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes The provision for (benefit from) income taxes and effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (Dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 6,536 $ (5,217 ) Effective income tax rate 12.6 % (15.7 )% The change in the effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate and the transitional income tax impact in Switzerland. We have benefited from a longstanding tax ruling from the canton of Vaud through March 31, 2019. The transitional income tax impact represents income tax provision at the current full statutory income tax rate of 13.62% , without taking account of the federal and cantonal tax reform yet to be enacted. In the three months ended June 30, 2019, there was a discrete tax provision of $2.3 million to record net deferred tax liability in Switzerland. Furthermore, there were discrete tax benefits of $5.8 million and $1.2 million from the recognition of excess tax benefits in the United States and reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations, respectively, in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared with $8.3 million and $0.9 million , respectively, in the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 . As of June 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019 , the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertain tax positions were $77.3 million and $76.5 million , respectively, all of which would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Balances, Available Borrowings, and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2019 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $597.0 million , compared to $604.5 million as of March 31, 2019 . As of June 30, 2019 , 76% of the cash and cash equivalents were held in Switzerland and 12% held in Hong Kong and China. We do not expect to incur any material adverse tax impact except for what has been recognized, or be significantly inhibited by any country in which we do business from the repatriation of funds to Switzerland, our home domicile. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended June 30, 2019 , was primarily due to payment of annual bonus during the period, purchases of property, plant and equipment, tax withholdings related to settlements of restricted stock units and shares repurchased under our share buyback program, partially offset by proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchase rights and net cash provided by operating activities. As of June 30, 2019 , our working capital was $648.3 million , compared to $632.6 million as of March 31, 2019 . The increase was primarily driven by higher accounts receivable, net, higher inventories and lower accrued and other current liabilities, partially offset by lower cash and cash equivalents and higher accounts payable. Our working capital increased by $49.6 million compared to $596.7 million as of June 30, 2018 , which was primarily driven by higher accounts receivable, net, higher inventories and lower accounts payable, partially offset by lower cash and cash equivalents and higher accrued and other current liabilities. We had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $79.3 million as of June 30, 2019 . There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which we must comply. As of June 30, 2019 , we had outstanding bank guarantees of $15.7 million under these lines of credit. 31 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 36,516 $ 12,282 Net cash used in investing activities (9,469 ) (8,845 ) Net cash used in financing activities (34,104 ) (33,959 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (503 ) (7,309 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (7,560 ) $ (37,831 ) The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of and for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 (Dollars in thousands): As of June 30, 2019 2018 Accounts receivable, net $ 418,816 $ 385,546 Accounts payable $ 338,748 $ 343,680 Inventories $ 297,007 $ 272,662 Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 Days sales in accounts receivable (DSO) (Days) (1) 59 57 Days accounts payable outstanding (DPO) (Days) (2) 75 80 Inventory turnover (ITO) (x) (3) 5.5 5.6 (1) DSO is determined using ending accounts receivable, net as of the most recent quarter end and sales for the most recent quarter. (2) DPO is determined using ending accounts payable as of the most recent quarter end and cost of goods sold for the most recent quarter. (3) ITO is determined using ending inventories and annualized cost of goods sold (based on the most recent quarterly cost of goods sold). DSO for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased by 2 days to 59 days, compared to 57 days for the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to timing of sales, customer payments and claims. DPO for the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by 5 days, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to the timing of purchases and related payments. ITO for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was approximately unchanged, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. If we are not successful in launching and phasing in our new products, or market competition increases, or we are not able to sell the new products at the prices planned, it could have a material impact on our sales, gross profit margin, operating results including operating cash flow, and inventory turnover in the future. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 , we generated $36.5 million of cash from operating activities. Our main sources of operating cash flows were from net income, after adding back non-cash expenses of depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation expense, and from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable, net was primarily driven by growth and timing of sales, customer payments and claims. The increase in other assets was primarily due to an increase in right-of-use assets as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 842. The increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by the timing of purchases and related payments. The decrease in accrued and other liabilities was primarily due to payment of annual bonus during the period, partially offset by an increase in lease liabilities as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 842. 32 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities was $ 9.5 million , primarily due to $9.3 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment. Net cash used in financing activities was $34.1 million , primarily due to $15.1 million used for repurchases of our registered shares, and $19.4 million tax withholdings related to net share settlements of restricted stock units, partially offset by $0.4 million in proceeds received from exercises of stock options and purchase rights. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 , there was a $0.5 million loss from currency exchange rate effect on cash and cash equivalents, compared to a loss of $7.3 million during the same period of the prior fiscal year. The loss from currency translation exchange effect during the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the Euro, Brazilian Real and Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar by 5%, 14% and 4%, respectively, during the period. Cash Outlook Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a much lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings. Our future working capital requirements and capital expenditures may increase to support investment in product innovations and growth opportunities, or to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies. In May 2019 , the Board of Directors recommended that the Company pay CHF 121.8 million ( $122.4 million based on the exchange rate on March 31, 2019 ) in cash dividends out of retained earnings available at the end of fiscal year 2019 . In fiscal year 2019, we paid a cash dividend of CHF 110.7 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $114.0 million) out of retained earnings available at the end of fiscal year 2018. In fiscal year 2018, we paid a cash dividend of CHF100.0 million (U.S. Dollar amount of $104.2 million) out of retained earnings available at the end of fiscal year 2017. The dividend to be paid in fiscal year 2020 and any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our shareholders. In March 2017, our Board of Directors approved our 2017 share buyback program, which authorizes us to purchase up to $250.0 million of our outstanding shares over a three-year period. The new program was approved by the Swiss Takeover Board in May 2017. Although we enter into trading plans for systematic repurchases (e.g., 10b5-1 trading plans) from time to time, our share buyback program provides us with the opportunity to make repurchases during periods of favorable market conditions and is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years. Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise. Opportunistic purchases may be started or stopped at any time without prior notice depending on market conditions and other factors. As of June 30, 2019 , $172.4 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 share buyback program. If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to support our operations and future planned cash requirements, our operations could be harmed and our access to credit could be restricted or eliminated. However, we believe that the trend of our historical cash flow generation, our projections of future operations and our available cash balances will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. Operating Leases Obligation We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require us to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at our option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation. The remaining terms of our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2030. 33 Table of Contents Purchase Commitments As of June 30, 2019 , we had non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled within the next 12 months. Non-cancelable purchase commitments for capital expenditures primarily relate to commitments for tooling for new and existing products, computer hardware, leasehold and improvements. We expect to continue making capital expenditures in the future to support product development activities and ongoing and expanded operations. Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us to reschedule or adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services. Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangemen ts We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Indemnifications We indemnify certain suppliers and customers for losses arising from matters such as intellectual property disputes and product safety defects, subject to certain restrictions. The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys fees. As of June 30, 2019 , no amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions. We do not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under our indemnification arrangements. We also indemnify our current and former directors and certain current and former officers. Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies. We are unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not capped, the obligations are conditional in nature, and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable. Legal Proceedings From time to time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors. Any failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect our business. 34 Table of Contents