ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our business strategy, the impact of investment prioritization decisions, product offerings, sales and marketing initiatives, trends in consumer demand affecting our products and markets, trends in the composition of our customer base, our current or future revenue and revenue mix by product, among our lower- and higher-margin products and by geographic region, our expectations regarding the potential growth opportunities for our products in mature and emerging markets and the enterprise market, our expectations regarding trends in global economic conditions and consumer demand for PCs and mobile devices, smartphones, tablets, gaming, audio, video and video conferencing, digital home digital music and other computer devices and the interoperability of our products with such third party platforms, our expectations regarding the convergence of markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, our competitive position and the effect of pricing, product, marketing and other initiatives by us and our competitors, the impact of our restructuring plan on future costs, expenses and financial performance and the timing thereof, our estimates of future charges related to our restructuring plan, our expectations regarding the recoverability of our goodwill, goodwill impairment charge estimates and the potential for future impairment charges, the impact of our current and proposed product divestitures and the timing thereof, significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the impact of new product introductions and product innovation on future performance or anticipated costs and expenses and the timing thereof, cash flows, the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated and available borrowings (including the availability of our uncommitted lines of credit) to fund future cash requirements, compliance with our credit facilities, our expectations regarding share repurchases and share cancellations, our expectations regarding our future working capital requirements and our anticipated capital expenditures needed to support our product development and expanded operations, our expectations regarding our future tax benefits and the adequacy of our provisions for uncertain tax positions, our expectations regarding our potential indemnification obligations, and the outcome of pending or future legal proceedings and tax audits, and Logitechs ability to achieve and sustain renewed growth, profitability and future success. Forward-looking statements also include, among others, those statements including the words anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict, should, will, and similar language. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual performance to differ materially from that anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Overview of Our Company Logitech is a world leader in products that connect people to the digital experiences they care about. Spanning multiple computing, communication and entertainment platforms, we develop and market innovative hardware and software products that enable or enhance digital navigation, music and video entertainment, gaming, social networking, and audio and video communication over the Internet. We have two operating segments: peripherals and video conferencing. Our peripherals segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of peripherals for PCs (personal computers), tablets and other digital platforms. Our products for home and business PCs include mice, trackballs, keyboards, interactive gaming controllers, multimedia speakers, headsets and webcams. Our tablet accessory products include keyboards, keyboard cases and covers, headphones, wireless speakers and earphones. Our Internet communications products include webcams, headsets, and digital 32 Table of Contents video security systems. Our digital music products include wireless speakers, earphones, headphones and custom in-ear monitors. For home entertainment systems, we offer the Harmony line of advanced remote controls. Our gaming products include mice, keyboards, headsets and gaming controllers. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, we identified a number of product categories that no longer fit with our current strategic direction. As a result, we made a strategic decision to divest our remote product category and our digital video security product line, included within our video product category, and we plan to discontinue other non-strategic products, such as speaker docks and most console gaming peripherals, by the end of fiscal year 2014. During the current quarter, we updated our strategic focus, deciding to retain our remote product category and transition out of our digital video security product line. Our brand, portfolio management, product definition and engineering teams in our peripherals segment are responsible for product strategy, technological innovation, product design and development, and bringing our products to market. Our peripherals business groups are organized by the following product categories: Pointing Devices, PC Keyboards & Desktops, Tablet Accessories, Audio PC, Audio-Wearables & Wireless, Video, PC Gaming, and Remotes. Our global marketing organization is responsible for developing and building the Logitech brand, consumer insights, public relations and social media, and digital marketing. Our regional retail sales and marketing activities are organized into three geographic areas: Americas (including North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Asia Pacific (including, among other countries, China, Taiwan, Japan and Australia). We sell our peripherals products to a network of distributors, retailers and OEMs. Our worldwide retail network includes wholesale distributors, consumer electronics retailers, mass merchandisers, specialty electronics stores, computer and telecommunications stores, value-added resellers and online merchants. Sales of peripherals to our retail channels were 86% and 84% of our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012. The large majority of our revenues have historically been derived from sales of our peripherals products for use by consumers. Our OEM customers include several of the worlds largest PC manufacturers. Sales to OEM customers were 7% and 8% of our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012. Our video conferencing segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of video conferencing products, infrastructure and services for the enterprise, public sector, and other business markets. Video conferencing products include scalable HD (high-definition) video communication endpoints, HD video conferencing systems with integrated monitors, video bridges and other infrastructure software and hardware to support large-scale video deployments, and services to support these products. The video conferencing segment maintains a separate marketing and sales organization, which sells LifeSize products and services worldwide. Video conferencing product development and product management organizations are separate, but coordinated with our peripherals business, particularly our Consumer Computing Platform group. We sell our LifeSize products and services to distributors, value-added resellers, OEMs, and occasionally, direct enterprise customers. Sales of LifeSize products were 6% and 8% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012. During fiscal year 2013, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $214.5 million related to our video conferencing segment. We seek to fulfill the increasing demand for interfaces between people and the expanding digital world across multiple platforms and user environments. The interface evolves as platforms, user models and our target markets evolve. As access to digital information has expanded, we have extended our focus to mobile devices, the digital home, and the enterprise as access points to the Internet and the digital world. All of these platforms require interfaces that are customized according to how the devices are used. We believe that continued investment in product research and development is critical to creating the innovation required to strengthen our competitive advantage and to drive future sales growth. We are committed to identifying and meeting current and future consumer trends with new and improved product technologies, partnering with others where our strengths are complementary, as well as leveraging the value of the Logitech and LifeSize brands from a competitive, channel partner and consumer experience perspective. We believe innovation and product quality are important to gaining market acceptance and maintaining market leadership. 33 Table of Contents We have been expanding the categories of products we sell and entering new markets, such as the markets for mobile device accessories. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our new categories as well as future ones we might enter. Many of these companies have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. The peripherals and video conferencing industries are intensely competitive. The peripherals industry is characterized by platform evolution, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets, and price sensitivity in the OEM market. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by some retail customers known as house brands, in response to declining consumer demand in both mature retail and OEM markets. We may also encounter more competition if any of our competitors in one or more categories decide to enter other categories in which we currently operate. From time to time, we may seek to partner with or acquire, when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction. We continually review our product offerings and our strategic direction in light of our profitability targets, competitive conditions, changing consumer trends, and the evolving nature of the interface between the consumer and the digital world. Revision of Financial Statements for the Quarter ended June 30, 2012 In the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, we identified errors related to the accounting for its product warranty liability and amortization expense of certain intangible assets. The errors impacted prior reporting periods, starting prior to fiscal year 2009. While these errors were not material to any previously issued annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements, management concluded that correcting the cumulative errors and related tax effects, which amounted to $19.1 million, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 would be material to the consolidated financial statements for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and to the expected results of operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014. We evaluated the cumulative impact of the errors on prior periods under the guidance in ASC 250-10 relating to SEC SAB No. 99, Materiality . We also evaluated the impact of correcting the errors through an adjustment to our financial statements and concluded, based on the guidance within ASC 250-10 relating to SAB No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements , to revise our previously issued financial statements to reflect the impact of the correction of these errors when we file subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K. Accordingly, we revised our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, as presented herein, to correct these errors. In addition, as a result of the decision to revise our previously issued consolidated financial statements to correct for the errors described above, we are also correcting other immaterial errors that were previously uncorrected. We are concurrently filing a Form 10-K/A to revise our financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 to correct prior period errors. Subsequent to the July 25, 2013 announcement of our first quarter results for 2014, we made additional adjustments to our reported results for the three months ended June 30, 2012. Net loss for our consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2012 decreased by $0.2 million due to further adjustments to our warranty cost estimate. Consolidated statement of cash flow for the three months ended June 30, 2012 was adjusted by the $0.2 million change in net loss, by a $2.3 million adjustment to increase purchases of property, plant and equipment and by a $2.1 million adjustment to decrease purchases of treasury shares. These adjustments are further described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 34 Table of Contents The revised financial statements corrected the following errors: (1) - Warranty accrual We determined that our prior warranty model did not accurately accrue for costs of product warranties given to end customers, including an on-going review of the assumptions to determine the completeness and accuracy of the warranty accrual at each reporting period. The inherent flaws in the prior model involved use of generic assumptions, incomplete warranty cost data and inter-regional methodological differences. This error impacted prior reporting periods, starting prior to fiscal year 2009, and impacted deferred tax asset classification between current and non-current assets. (2) - Amortization of intangibles We determined that $4.2 million in intangible assets originating from a November 2009 acquisition were never amortized. The impact of this adjustment was $2.0 million in amortization expense not properly recorded during the periods from the quarter ended December 31, 2009 through the end of fiscal year 2013. (3) - Other adjustments We also corrected a number of other immaterial errors, including the cumulative translation adjustment related to the purchase of treasury shares, and an adjustment affecting the amount of property, plant and equipment purchased during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. The adjustments made as a result of the revisions to the historical financial statements are more fully discussed in Note 2, Revision of Previously-Issued Financial Statements , to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 35 Table of Contents Summary of Financial Results Our total net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2013 increased 2%, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012, due to an increase in retail sales, offset by continued weakness in OEM and video conferencing sales. Retail sales during the three months ended June 30, 2013 increased 5% and retail units sold decreased 6%, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012. We experienced increases of 12% in the Americas and 4% in the Asia Pacific regions, offset in part by a decrease of 3% in the EMEA region. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage changes in our constant dollar retail sales would have been increases of 12% and 7% in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions, and a decrease of 3% in the EMEA region. Sales incentive spending (including pricing discounts) during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012, remained relatively constant with a 1% increase during this period. Sales returns expense during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012, decreased by 20% due to lower channel inventory aging during this period. OEM net sales decreased 6% and units sold decreased 2% in the three months ended June 30, 2013 compared with the preceding fiscal year. The decline was primarily due to overall weak market conditions for sale of new desktop PCs. Sales of video conferencing products, which were 6% and 8% of total net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, decreased by 18% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012, due to a combination of a changing industry landscape caused by a shift to less expensive, cloud-based video conferencing solutions, an evolving LifeSize product line and challenges in execution. 36 Table of Contents Our gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2013 improved to 35.2%, compared with 31.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2012. The improvement in gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2013 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily resulted from cost improvements across all of our PC-related categories and from actions we took during fiscal year 2013 to streamline our product portfolio. The improvement also resulted from negative factors affecting our gross margin during the same period of the prior fiscal year which did not exist during the three months ended June 30, 2013, including $4.5 million in pricing actions related to the simplification of our product portfolio in the Americas and EMEA regions, $3.0 million in costs related to product development efforts that were discontinued as a result of the April 2012 restructuring, and a provision for a patent dispute. Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2013 were 35% of net sales, compared with 43% in the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in total operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the restructuring plan initiated in April 2012, which resulted in $31.2 million in expenses incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2012. Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2013 was $1.0 million, compared with net loss of $51.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2012. This improvement primarily resulted from the absence of $31.2 million in restructuring charges related to the three months ended June 30, 2012 combined with the gross margin improvement during the three months ended June 30, 2013. Trends in Our Business Our sales of PC peripherals for use by consumers in the Americas and Europe have historically made up the large majority of our revenues. In the last two years, the PC market has changed dramatically and there continues to be significant weakness in the global market for new PCs. This weakness has had a negative impact on our net sales in all of our PC-related categories. We believe that this weakness reflects the growing popularity of tablets and smartphones as mobile computing devices. We believe Logitechs future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, especially accessories for mobility-related products, including tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, and for digital music, including wireless speakers and wearables such as earphones, to limit and offset the decline in our PC peripherals. We pursue growth opportunities in emerging markets, mobility-related products, products for digital music and enterprise markets. The following discussion represents key trends specific to each of our two operating segments, peripherals and video conferencing. Trends Specific to our Peripherals Segment Mature and Emerging Markets. In our traditional, mature markets, such as North America, Western and Northern Europe, Japan, and Australia, although the installed base of PC users is large, consumer demand for new PCs has declined in recent years, and we believe it will continue to decline in future years. As a consequence, consumer demand for PC peripherals is slowing, or in some case declining. While we continue to pursue growth opportunities in select PC peripherals product lines in mature markets, we believe there are growth opportunities for our PC peripherals outside the mature markets. We have invested significantly in growing the number of our sales, marketing and administrative personnel in China, our largest target emerging market, with the result that China was our second-largest country in retail sales for the three months ended June 30, 2013. We are also expanding our presence in other emerging markets. Enterprise Market . We are continuing our efforts to create and sell products and services to enterprises. We believe the preferences of employees increasingly drive companies choices in the information technologies they deploy to their employee base. Growing our enterprise peripherals business will continue to require investment in selected business-specific products, targeted product marketing, and sales channel development. 37 Table of Contents Tablets, Smartphones and Other Mobile Devices. The increasing popularity of smaller, mobile computing devices, such as tablets and smartphones with touch interfaces, have created new markets and usage models for peripherals and accessories. Logitech has begun to offer products to enhance the use of mobile devices. For example, we are experiencing strong demand for our tablet keyboards, led by our Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013, we also introduced the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini, a slim protective keyboard cover designed to enhance the iPad mini experience. Initial demand for the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini has been very positive. The tablet accessories category is one of the primary strategic categories of our business. We continue to expand and leverage on our success in this category through the recent introduction of innovative products such as the Logitech Keyboard Folio and Folio mini, the Logitech FabricSkin Keyboard Folio for iPad and iPad mini, and the Logitech Wired Keyboard for iPad. Digital Music. We believe that digital music, the seamless consumption of digital audio content on mobile devices, presents a growth opportunity for Logitech, based on our history of successful earphone, headphone and speaker products. Many consumers listen to music as a pervasive entertainment activity, fueled by the growth in smartphones, tablets, music services and Internet radio. We believe we have a solid foundation of audio solutions to satisfy consumers needs for music consumption, including Logitech UE earphones and digital music speakers. We continue to invest and introduce innovative new products in this category such as UE Boom, a wireless speaker offering 360-degree stereo sound announced in late May 2013. OEM business. Sales of our OEM mice and keyboards have historically made up the bulk of our OEM sales. In recent years, there has been a dramatic shift away from desktop PCs and there continues to be significant weakness in the global market for PCs, which has adversely affected our sales of OEM mice and keyboards, all of which are sold with name-brand desktop PCs. We expect this trend to continue and for OEM sales to comprise a smaller percentage of our total revenues in the future. Trends in Other Peripherals Product Categories . Some of our other peripherals product categories are experiencing significant market challenges. As the quality of PC-embedded webcams improves along with the increasing popularity of tablets and smartphones with embedded webcams, we expect future sales of our PC-connected webcams in mature consumer markets to continue declining. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, we identified a number of product categories that no longer fit with our current strategic direction. As a result, we made a strategic decision to divest our entire Retail-Remotes product category and our digital video security product line included in our Retail-Video product category, and we plan to discontinue other non-strategic products, such as speaker docks and most console gaming peripherals, by the end of fiscal year 2014. During the current quarter, we updated our strategic focus deciding to retain our Retail-Remote product category. Trends Specific to our Video Conferencing Segment The trend among businesses and institutions to use video conferencing offers a long-term growth opportunity for Logitech. However, the overall video conferencing industry has experienced a slowdown in recent quarters. In addition, there has been an increase in the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013. This resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. We believe the growth in our video conferencing segment depends in part on our ability to increase sales to enterprises with existing installed bases of equipment supplied by our competitors, and to enterprises that may purchase such competitor equipment in the future. We believe the ability of our LifeSize products to interoperate with the equipment of other telecommunications, video conferencing or telepresence equipment suppliers to be a key factor in purchasing decisions by current or prospective LifeSize customers. In addition, LifeSize has broadened its product portfolio to include infrastructure, cloud services and other offerings which require different approaches to developing customer solutions. 38 Table of Contents We also are seeking to offer LifeSize products designed to enhance the use of mobile devices in video conferencing applications. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America) requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting estimate critical if it: (i) requires management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain; and (ii) is important to an understanding of Logitechs financial condition and operating results. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact us in the future, actual results could differ from those estimates. Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. There have been no significant changes during the three months ended June 30, 2013, except for product warranty accrual, to the nature of the critical accounting policies, and no significant changes to the critical accounting estimates that were disclosed in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. 39 Table of Contents Product Warranty Accrual We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of our typical experience. Each quarter, we reevaluate our estimates to assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjust the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liabilities would be required and could materially affect our results of operations. As discussed in the subsection titled, Revision of Financial Statements for the Quarter ended June 30, 2012 , we determined that our prior warranty model did not accurately accrue for costs of product warranties given to end customers, including an on-going review of the assumptions to determine the completeness and accuracy of the warranty accrual at each reporting period. The inherent flaws in the prior model involved use of generic assumptions, incomplete warranty cost data and inter-regional methodological differences. During the three months ended June 30, 2013, we developed and implemented a new warranty model (new model) to estimate its warranty costs and liability at each reporting period. The new model has been implemented by all regions and incorporates a waterfall method to more accurately capture consumer return behavior and a single model approach for all regions. Key assumptions used in the new model include: Warranty expenses: All warranty costs, including product, freight, handling and warehousing costs are captured by the new model. Sell-through revenue, if available: Use of sell-through revenue, defined as sales data to end consumers, is relevant given that the warranty period comments on the date the consumer purchases the product. Historic product return waterfall rates: Waterfall rates are used in the new model to predict consumer product warranty returns based on historical consumer behavior patterns. This error impacted prior reporting periods, starting prior to fiscal year 2009, and resulted in a $17.1 million cumulative correcting adjustment to our consolidated financial statements from the beginning of fiscal year 2009 through the end of fiscal year 2013. Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales by channel for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended June 30, 2013 2012 Change % Retail $ 413,237 $ 395,101 5 % OEM 34,513 36,675 (6 )% Video Conferencing 30,174 36,828 (18 )% Total net sales $ 477,924 $ 468,604 2 % 40 Table of Contents The following table presents the approximate percentage of our total net sales that were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012: Three Months ended June 30, 2013 2012 Currencies other than USD 43 % 44 % If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage change in our constant dollar net sales would have been: Three Months Ended June 30, 2013 Retail 5 % OEM (6 )% Video Conferencing (18 )% Total net sales 2 % Our retail sales in the three months ended June 30, 2013 increased by 5%, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, as the retail sales increases in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions were offset in part by a decrease in the EMEA region. Retail units sold decreased 6% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Our overall retail average selling price increased by 12% during this period. Products priced below $40 represented approximately 51% and 58% of retail sales in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, while products priced above $100 represented 14% and 11% of retail sales during these same periods. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, our constant dollar retail sales increase would have been 5%. OEM net sales decreased 6% and units sold decreased 2% in the three months ended June 30, 2013 compared with the preceding fiscal year. The decline was primarily due to overall weak market conditions for sale of new desktop PCs. Video conferencing net sales decreased 18% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. This decrease primarily resulted from the combination of a changing industry landscape caused by a shift to less expensive, cloud-based video conferencing solutions, an evolving LifeSize product line and challenges in execution. We refer to our net sales excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates as constant dollar sales. Constant dollar sales are a non-GAAP financial measure, which is information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures in its financial and operational decision-making, and believes these non-GAAP measures, when considered in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, facilitate a better understanding of changes in net sales. Constant dollar sales are calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current periods average exchange rate for that currency. 41 Table of Contents Retail Sales by Region The following table presents the changes in retail units sold, retail sales and constant dollar retail sales by region for the three months ended June 30, 2013 compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012. Three months ended June 30, 2013 Change in Change in Retail Units Change in Constant Dollar Sold Retail Sales Retail Sales EMEA (12 )% (3 )% (5 )% Asia Pacific (6 )% 4 % 7 % Americas (1 )% 12 % 12 % Total retail sales (6 )% 5 % 5 % Americas The Americas region experienced a solid 12% increase in retail sales during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Sales increase was achieved in all categories except our non-strategic Other, Remotes and Audio-PC categories. This increase was led by strong performance in Tablet Accessories due to strong sales from the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for iPad and iPad mini, and from the recently introduced Logitech Keyboard Folio suite of products designed for the iPad and iPad mini. We also experienced strong sales in PC Gaming due to a recent launch of eight new gaming products, in Audio-Wearables & Wireless from the UE Mobile Boombox and the UE Boom, as well as solid growth in Pointing Devices and PC Keyboards & Desktops. During the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, we experienced solid improvement in the United States and Canada. Retail sell-through in the Americas region increased 3% in the three months ended June 30, 2013 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. EMEA Retail sales in the EMEA region experienced a 3% decline during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. This decline was primarily driven by our non-strategic Other category, combined with declines in Audio-PC, Pointing Devices, Video and PC Keyboards & Desktops. These declines were offset in part by strong performance in Tablet Accessories, PC Gaming, Remotes and Audio-Wearables & Wireless. During the three months ended June 30, 2013, we experienced significant sales decreases in Germany and Russia, offset in part by significant increases in France and the United Kingdom. Retail sell-through in the EMEA region decreased 8% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Asia Pacific Asia Pacific region retail sales increased by 4% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to strong sales growth in our Tablet Accessories, PC Gaming and Audio-Wearables & Wireless categories. These increases were offset in part by weakness in our Audio-PC, Pointing Devices and Video categories. We experienced strong growth in Australia and solid growth in China, offset in part by weakness in Japan. Retail sell-through in the Asia Pacific region increased 1% compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. 42 Table of Contents Net Retail Sales by Product Category Net retail sales by product category during the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended June 30, 2013 2012 Change % Retail - Pointing Devices $ 114,651 $ 115,830 (1 )% Retail - PC Keyboards & Desktops 97,950 94,559 4 % Retail - Tablet Accessories 38,559 15,886 143 % Retail - Audio PC 51,966 61,525 (16 )% Retail - Audio - Wearables & Wireless 19,075 14,599 31 % Retail - Video 35,258 37,159 (5 )% Retail - PC Gaming 39,617 26,783 48 % Retail - Remotes 14,574 13,732 6 % Retail - Other 1,587 15,028 (89 )% $ 413,237 $ 395,101 Retail Pointing Devices Retail sales of Pointing Devices decreased 1% while retail units sold increased 1% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012. The continued weakness in the global PC market was a major factor in the sales declines in this category across all regions except the Americas region. The primary weakness during the three months ended June 30, 2013 was in our high-end product offerings, which experienced a 30% decline mainly due to an aging product line-up that we intend to refresh during this fiscal year, followed by our low-end product offerings, which experienced a 4% decline, offset in part by an increase of 22% in our mid-range product offerings. Sales of all cordless mice increased 2%, while units sold increased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Corded mice sales decreased 11%, while units sold decreased 5% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. By geography, the Americas region sales and units sold increased by 14% and 10%, the EMEA region sales and units sold decreased by 9% and 2%, the Asia Pacific region sales and units sold decreased by 9% and 4% during this period. Retail PC Keyboards and Desktops Retail sales of PC Keyboards & Desktops increased 4% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, while units sold decreased 6% during this period. This sales increase was driven by a very strong quarter in our cordless keyboard category, led by our Wireless Touch Keyboard K400, which features an integrated touchpad and has been popular for use in the living room. Sales of corded and cordless desktops increased 7% and 1% in sales and increased 4% and 6% in units sold during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. Sales of corded and cordless keyboards decreased 18% and increased 41% in sales and decreased 26% and increased 20% in units sold during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. By geography, the Americas region sales increased by 14% and units sold decreased by 5%, the EMEA region sales and units sold decreased by 3% and 13%, and the Asia Pacific region sales and units sold decreased by 2% and 1% during this period. Retail Tablet Accessories Retail Tablet Accessories continued to represent our strongest product category with sales and unit increases of 143% and 155% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. This increase was driven by continued strong demand for the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for the iPad, as well as strong sales from recently introduced products such as the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for the iPad Mini, and from the Logitech Keyboard Folio suite of products designed for the iPad and iPad mini. By geography, we experienced strong growth in all regions, led by the Asia Pacific region where sales and units sold increased by 268% and 263%, the Americas region where sales and units sold increased by 123% and 139%, and the EMEA region where sales and units sold increased by 119% and 123% during this period. 43 Table of Contents Retail Audio-PC Retail Audio-PC sales and units sold decreased 16% and 24% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. This decrease was due to sales and unit declines of 14% and 22% in PC speakers and sales and unit declines of 18% and 26% in PC headsets. These declines reflect both weakness in the overall market for new PCs, a market shift toward mobile audio devices, and a product line that has not been meaningfully refreshed in over a year. We have started to address this situation through our recent introduction of the Logitech Bluetooth Speakers Z600, wireless stereo speakers that stream music and other audio from a computer, smartphone or tablet. By geography, we experienced declines in all regions during this period. The declines were led by the Asia Pacific region where sales and units sold decreased by 22% and 34%, followed by the EMEA region where sales and units sold decreased by 16% and 25%, and by the Americas region where sales and units sold decreased by 13% and 17%. Retail Audio - Wearables & Wireless Retail Audio-Wearables & Wireless sales increased 31% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, while retail units sold decreased 22% during this period. This increase was due to a 126% increase in our wireless speakers for smartphones and tablets, driven by strong demand for the UE Mobile Boombox and the UE Boom. Sales of our audio wearables products continued to be weak, decreasing by 41% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. By geography, we experienced strong overall growth in all regions, led by the EMEA region where sales and units sold increased by 48% and 13%, followed by the Americas region where sales increased by 29% and units sold decreased by 9%, and by the Asia Pacific region where sales increased by 25% and units sold decreased by 43%. Retail Video Retail Video sales and units sold decreased by 5% and 31% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. The sales decrease was mainly due to weakness in our consumer webcam product line, which declined by 12% during this period, and which continued to be negatively impacted by the combination of market trends, including the popularity of embedded webcams in mobile devices, and the overall weakness of the PC market. The decline in our webcam product line was concentrated in the low-end, which we are gradually shifting away from. The decline was offset in part by strong growth in our high-end webcam category, driven by the Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920 and from the Logitech BCC950 Conference Cam, and solid growth in our mid-range webcam category, driven by the Logitech HD Webcam C615. The decrease in retail video sales was also from a 27% decline in our digital video security products, a category in which we announced we would transition out of by the end of fiscal year 2014. By geography, we experienced declines in the EMEA region, where sales and units sold decreased by 14% and 43%, and in the Asia Pacific region where sales and units sold decreased by 10% and 31% during this period. In the Americas region, sales increased by 6% and units sold decreased by 15% during this period. Retail PC Gaming We experienced significant growth of 48% in sales and 16% in units sold in our PC Gaming category during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. This strong growth was driven by the launch of eight new gaming products, including mice, keyboards and headsets during the three months ended June 30, 2013. This new launch resulted in us achieving solid double-digit growth in mice, keyboards and headsets. PC Gaming sales in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions increased by 64%, 44% and 39% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. 44 Table of Contents Retail Remotes Retail sales of our Remotes category increased 6% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, while retail units sold decreased 40%. This sales increase was driven by strong initial demand for the Logitech Harmony Ultimate, our premium remote product launched during the current quarter. The 40% decline in units sold, relative to the 6% sales increase, reflects our exit from the low-end to the mid- and high-end remote categories. During the current quarter, we updated our strategic focus by deciding to retain our remotes product category. By geography, remote sales increased in EMEA and Asia Pacific regions by 148% and 425%, and decreased by 14% in the Americas. Retail Other This category comprises a variety of products that we currently intend to transition out of, or have already transitioned out of, because they are no longer strategic to our business. Products currently included in this category include speaker docks, streaming media systems, console gaming peripherals and Logitech Revue for Google TV products. Retail sales of this category decreased by 89% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with same period in the prior fiscal year, while retail units sold decreased 84% during this period. Our other category sales in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions decreased by 97%, 83% and 104% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with same period of the prior fiscal year. We plan to discontinue other non-strategic products by the end of fiscal year 2014. OEM OEM sales and units sold decreased by 6% and 2% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily a 11% decline in OEM pointing device sales during this period, consistent with the weak market conditions for sales of new desktop PCs. This decrease was offset in part by a 16% increase in OEM keyboard and desktop sales due to new business from a large customer. Video Conferencing Video conferencing net sales decreased 18% during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. This decrease was experienced in all geographic regions, and resulted from the combination of a changing industry landscape caused by a shift to less expensive, cloud-based video conferencing solutions, an evolving LifeSize product line and challenges in execution. Gross Profit Gross profit for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended June 30, 2013 2012 Change As Revised Net sales $ 477,924 $ 468,604 2 % Cost of goods sold 309,569 323,258 (4 )% Gross profit $ 168,355 $ 145,346 16 % Gross margin 35.2 % 31.0 % 45 Table of Contents Gross profit consists of net sales, less cost of goods sold which includes materials, direct labor and related overhead costs, costs of manufacturing facilities, costs of purchasing components from outside suppliers, distribution costs, write-down of inventories and amortization of intangible assets. The improvement in gross margin for the three months ended June 30, 2013 compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily resulted from cost improvements across all of our PC-related categories and from actions we took during fiscal year 2013 to streamline our product portfolio. The improvement also resulted from negative factors affecting the June 30, 2012 gross margin which did not exist during the three months ended June 30, 2013, including $4.5 million in pricing actions related to the simplification of our product portfolio in the Americas and EMEA regions, $3.0 million in costs related to product development efforts that were discontinued as a result of the April 2012 restructuring, and a provision for a patent dispute. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended June 30, 2013 2012 Change As Revised Marketing and selling $ 100,635 $ 100,897 0 % % of net sales 21 % 22 % Research and development 36,191 39,023 (7 )% % of net sales 8 % 8 % General and administrative 29,148 32,480 (10 )% % of net sales 6 % 7 % Restructuring charges 2,334 31,227 (93 )% % of net sales 0 % 7 % Total operating expenses $ 168,308 $ 203,627 (17 )% The decrease in total operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the restructuring plan initiated in April 2012, which resulted in $31.2 million in expenses incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2012. We refer to our operating expenses excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates as constant dollar operating expenses. Constant dollar operating expenses are a non-GAAP financial measure, which is information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures in its financial and operational decision-making, and believes these non-GAAP measures, when considered in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, facilitate a better understanding of changes in operating expenses. Constant dollar operating expenses are calculated by translating prior period operating expenses in each local currency at the current periods average exchange rate for that currency. Marketing and Selling Marketing and selling expense consists of personnel and related overhead costs, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, customer and technical support and facilities costs. Marketing and selling expense remained relatively constant during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Increased costs for new product launches in Tablet Accessories, PC Gaming and wireless speakers were offset by savings achieved from our recent restructuring plans. 46 Table of Contents If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage change in constant dollar marketing and sales expense would have also been 0%. Research and Development Research and development expense consists of personnel and related overhead costs, contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products. Although we continued to make investments in product development, we experienced a 7% decrease in research and development expense during the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily from a decline in personnel-related expenses due to the reduction in worldwide workforce resulting from our recent restructuring plans. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, the change in constant dollar research and development expense would have also been a decrease of 7%. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel and related overhead and facilities costs for the finance, information systems, executive, human resources and legal functions. General and administrative expense decreased 10% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012, primarily from the decline in personnel-related expenses, facility-related expenses and share-based compensation expense due to our recent restructuring plans. In addition, the decrease was also due to the write-off of the remaining lease obligations resulting from the exit of our former corporate headquarters which occurred during the three months ended June 30, 2012. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage change in constant dollar general and administrative expense would have also been a decrease of 10%. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges consist of termination benefits, lease exit costs and other charges associated with our restructuring plans initiated during fiscal year 2013. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we implemented a restructuring plan to simplify our organization, to better align costs with our current business, and to free up resources to pursue growth opportunities. A majority of the restructuring activity was completed during the three months ended June 30, 2012. As part of this restructuring plan, we reduced our worldwide non-direct-labor workforce by approximately 340 employees. Charges and other costs related to the workforce reduction are presented as restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of operations. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, restructuring charges under this plan included $28.7 million in termination benefits to affected employees, $1.1 million in legal, consulting, and other costs as a result of the terminations, and $1.5 million in lease exit costs associated with the closure of existing facilities. We substantially completed this restructuring plan during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013, we implemented an additional restructuring plan to align our organization to our strategic priorities of increasing focus on mobility products, improving profitability in PC-related products and enhancing global operational efficiencies. As part of this restructuring plan, we reduced our worldwide non-direct-labor workforce by approximately 220 employees. Restructuring charges under this plan primarily consist of severance and other one-time termination benefits. Charges and other costs related to the workforce reduction are presented as restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of operations. During the three months ended June 30, 2013, restructuring charges under this plan included $2.0 million in termination benefits to affected employees and $0.3 million in lease exit costs. We estimate completing this restructuring plan during fiscal year 2014. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes restructuring-related activities during the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Total Termination Benefits Lease Exit Costs Other Balance at March 31, 2012 $ $ $ $ Charges 31,227 28,655 1,472 1,100 Cash payments (5,195 ) (4,766 ) (429 ) Foreign exchange 63 63 Balance at June 30, 2012 $ 26,095 $ 23,952 $ 1,472 $ 671 Balance at March 31, 2013 $ 13,458 $ 13,383 $ 75 $ Charges 2,334 2,004 330 Cash payments (8,422 ) (8,422 ) Foreign exchange (170 ) (170 ) Balance at June 30, 2013 $ 7,200 $ 6,795 $ 405 $ Interest Income, Net Interest income and expense for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended June 30, 2013 2012 Change Interest income $ 422 $ 732 (42 )% Interest expense (445 ) (348 ) 28 % Interest income, net $ (23 ) $ 384 (106 )% Interest income was lower in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012, primarily due to lower invested balances resulting from the $133.5 million cash dividend payment made on September 18, 2012 and from the $87.8 million paid to repurchase 8.6 million shares under our amended September 2008 buyback program. Interest expense was higher in the three months ended June 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2012, primarily due to commitment fees and non-recurring fees related to the revolving credit facility entered into in December 2011. 48 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income and expense for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended June 30, 2013 2012 Change Investment impairment $ (370 ) $ (100 )% Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net 491 (671 ) 173 % Investment income (loss) related to deferred compensation plan 364 (411 ) 189 % Gain on sale of investments 831 (100 )% Other, net (268 ) 92 (391 )% Other income (expense), net $ 217 $ (159 ) 236 % The $0.4 million investment impairment in the three months ended June 30, 2013 resulted from the write-down of an investment in a privately-held company. Foreign currency exchange gains or losses relate to balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a particular subsidiary, to the sale of currencies, and to gains or losses recognized on foreign exchange forward contracts. We do not speculate in currency positions, but we are alert to opportunities to maximize foreign exchange gains. Investment income (loss) for three months ended June 30 2013 and 2012 represents earnings, gains, and losses on trading investments related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries. During fiscal year 2013, we sold the remaining two of our available-for-sale securities for $0.9 million. This sale resulted in $0.8 million of gain recognized in other income (expense), net, $0.3 million of which resulted from the recognition of a temporary increase in fair value previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended June 30, 2013 2012 Benefit from income taxes $ (802 ) $ (6,910 ) Effective income tax rate (332.8 )% 11.9 % The provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists of income and withholding taxes. Logitech operates in multiple jurisdictions and its profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws and tax agreements in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards, changes in geographical mix of income and expense, and changes in managements assessment of matters such as the ability to realize deferred tax assets. The change in the effective income tax rate to (332.8%) for the three months ended June 30, 2013 compared with 11.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2012 is primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, and the treatment of restructuring expenses as a discrete event in determining the annual effective tax rate in the three months ended June 30, 2012. 49 Table of Contents In fiscal year 2013, we incurred $43.7 million of restructuring charges and related expenses to simplify our organization and to align the organization to our strategic priorities. $31.2 million of such charges were incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 with the remaining balance primarily incurred in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. In the three months ended June 30, 2013, the Company incurred restructuring related termination benefits and lease exit costs in the amount of $2.3 million. In determining the estimated annual effective tax rate, the restructuring activities in the three months ended June 30, 2013 were not treated as a discrete event as the charges were not significantly unusual and infrequent in nature, unlike those that were incurred in the same period of fiscal year 2013. The tax benefit associated with the restructuring in the three months ended June 30, 2013 was not material. As discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we identified errors related to the accounting for its product warranty liability and amortization expense of certain intangible assets which impacted prior reporting periods through fiscal year 2009. The tax impact is included in the revised financial statements and related disclosures for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2013. As of June 30 and March 31, 2013, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties due to uncertain tax positions was $101.4 million and $102.0 million, of which $89.2 million and $90.3 million would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized. We classified the unrecognized tax benefits as non-current income taxes payable. We continue to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions in income tax expense. As of June 30 and March 31, 2013, we had approximately $6.7 million and $6.6 million of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, we are generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to fiscal year 2001. We are under examination and have received assessment notices in foreign tax jurisdictions. At this time, we are not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Although we have adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate change in the unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Balances, Available Borrowings, and Capital Resources At June 30, 2013, our working capital remained relatively constant at $395.1 million, compared with $381.6 million at March 31, 2013. During the three months ended June 30, 2013, we used $1.3 million of cash flow from operating activities. Our main sources of operating cash flows were net income after adding non-cash expenses of depreciation, amortization and share-based compensation expense, and from increases in accounts payables and accrued liabilities. These sources of operating cash flows were offset by increases in accounts receivables and inventories. Net cash used in investing activities was $13.5 million, primarily from $13.2 million of investments in leasehold improvements, computer hardware and software, tooling and equipment and from an acquisition of a privately-held company for $0.7 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.2 million. At June 30, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $318.9 million. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised of bank demand deposits and short-term time deposits carried at cost, which is equivalent to fair value. Approximately 50% of our cash and cash equivalents are held by our Swiss-based entities, and approximately 35% is held by our subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China. We do not believe we would be subject to any material adverse tax impact or significantly inhibited by any country in which we do business from the repatriation of funds to Switzerland, our home domicile. 50 Table of Contents In December 2011, we entered into a Senior Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a group of primarily Swiss banks that provides for a revolving multicurrency unsecured credit facility in an amount of up to $250.0 million. We may, upon notice to the lenders and subject to certain requirements, arrange with existing or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $150.0 million in additional commitments, for a total of $400.0 million of unsecured revolving credit. The credit facility may be used for working capital, general corporate purposes, and acquisitions. There were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility at June 30, 2013. The credit facility matures on October 31, 2016. We may prepay the loans under the credit facility in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Borrowings under the credit facility will accrue interest at a per annum rate based on LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), or EURIBOR (Euro Interbank Offered Rate) in the case of loans denominated in euros, plus a variable margin determined quarterly based on the ratio of senior debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the preceding four-quarter period, plus, if applicable, an additional rate per annum intended to compensate the lenders for the cost of compliance with regulatory reserve requirements and other banking regulations. We also pay a quarterly commitment fee of 40% of the applicable margin on the available commitment. In connection with entering into the credit facility, we incurred non-recurring fees totaling $1.5 million, which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the credit facility. The facility agreement contains representations and covenants, including threshold financial covenants, and events of default customary in Swiss credit markets. Affirmative covenants include covenants regarding reporting requirements, maintenance of insurance, maintenance of properties and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and financial covenants that require the maintenance of net senior debt, interest cover and adjusted equity ratios determined in accordance with the terms of the facility. Negative covenants limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, among other things, to grant liens, make investments, incur debt, make restricted payments, enter into a merger or acquisition, or sell, transfer or dispose of assets, in each case subject to certain exceptions. As of March 31, 2013, we were not in compliance with the interest coverage ratio of the credit facility. This situation resulted from the significant operating loss incurred during fiscal year 2013. On June 13, 2013, we amended the credit facility to amend the definitions of (a) EBITDA to exclude the effect of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and (b) interest coverage ratio calculation to utilize EBITDA rather than EBIT. As of June 30, 2013, we were not in compliance with the adjusted equity ratio of this facility. Until we are in compliance with the covenants, this facility is not available for our use. This credit facility stipulates that, upon an uncured event of default under the facility, the lenders may declare all or a portion of the outstanding obligations payable by us to be immediately due and payable, terminate their commitments and exercise other rights and remedies provided for under the facility. The events of default under the facility include, among other things, payment defaults, covenant defaults, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events and events that have a material adverse effect (as defined in the facility). Upon a change of control of the Company, lenders whose commitments aggregate more than two-thirds of the total commitments under the facility may terminate the commitments and declare all outstanding obligations to be due and payable. We have credit lines with several European and Asian banks totaling $94.9 million as of June 30, 2013. As is common for businesses in European and Asian countries, these credit lines are uncommitted and unsecured. Despite the lack of formal commitments from the banks, we believe that these lines of credit will continue to be made available because of our long-standing relationships with these banks and our current financial condition. At June 30, 2013, there were no outstanding borrowings under these lines of credit. There are no financial covenants or cross default provisions under these facilities. We also have credit lines related to corporate credit cards totaling $17.3 million as of June 30, 2013. The outstanding borrowings under these credit lines are recorded in other current liabilities. There are no financial covenants or cross default provisions under these credit lines. 51 Table of Contents We have financed our operating and capital requirements primarily through cash flow from operations and, to a lesser extent, from capital markets and bank borrowings. Our normal liquidity for the next 12 months and our longer-term capital resource requirements are provided from three sources: cash flow generated from operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and borrowings, as needed, under our credit facilities. We believe that, based on the trend of our historical cash flow generation, our projections of future operations and reduced expenses, our available cash balances and credit lines will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operation for at least the next 12 months. Cash Flow from Operating Activities The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of June 30, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in thousands): June 30, 2013 2012 As Revised Accounts receivable, net $ 218,599 $ 213,973 Inventories 296,012 280,533 Working capital 395,089 440,375 Days sales in accounts receivable (DSO) (1) 41 days 41 days Inventory turnover (ITO) (2) 4.2x 4.6x Net cash used in operating activities $ (1,307 ) $ (6,904 ) (1) DSO is determined using ending accounts receivable as of the most recent quarter-end and net sales for the most recent quarter. (2) ITO is determined using ending inventories and annualized cost of goods sold (based on the most recent quarterly cost of goods sold). During the three months ended June 30, 2013, we used net cash of $1.3 million for operating activities, compared with net cash used of $6.9 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year. The primary drivers of the decline in net cash used for operating cash flows include a shift from net loss of $51.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2012 to a net income of $1.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2013, and from a $33.6 million increase in accounts payables and a $13.7 million increase in accrued liabilities. These uses of operating cash flows were offset in part by a $38.9 million increase in accounts receivables and a $28.1 million increase in inventories during this period. DSO remained relatively constant between the three months ended June 30, 2013 and the three months ended June 30, 2012. Typical payment terms require customers to pay for product sales generally within 30 to 60 days. However, terms may vary by customer type, by country and by selling season. Extended payment terms are sometimes offered to a limited number of customers during the second and third fiscal quarters. We do not modify payment terms on existing receivables, but may offer discounts for early payment. Inventory turnover between the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 decreased due to lower annualized cost of goods sold between the two periods. 52 Table of Contents Cash Flow from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities during the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three months ended June 30, 2013 2012 As Revised Purchases of property, plant and equipment $ (13,208 ) $ (21,916 ) Acquisition of a privately-held company (650 ) Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale securities 917 Purchases of trading investments (4,406 ) (1,397 ) Proceeds from sale of trading investments 4,748 1,385 Net cash used in investing activities $ (13,516 ) $ (21,011 ) Our expenditures for property, plant and equipment during the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 were principally normal expenditures for leasehold improvements, computer hardware and software, tooling and equipment. During the three months ended June 30, 2013, we invested $0.7 million to acquire a privately-held company. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we sold our two remaining available-for-sale securities for $0.9 million. The purchases and sales of trading investments in the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 represent mutual fund activity directed by participants in a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries. The mutual funds are held by a Rabbi Trust. Cash Flow from Financing Activities The following table presents information on our cash flows from financing activities during the three months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Three months ended June 30, 2013 2012 As Revised Purchase of treasury shares $ $ (87,812 ) Proceeds from sale of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights 12 404 Tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs (215 ) (170 ) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 5 Net cash used in financing activities $ (203 ) $ (87,573 ) Three months ended June 30, 2013 2012 As Revised Number of shares repurchased 8,600 Value of shares repurchased $ $ 87,812 During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we repurchased 8.6 million shares for $87.8 million under the Companys amended September 2008 buyback program, compared with the three months ended June 30, 2013, during which no share repurchases were made. The amounts of the repurchases include transaction costs incurred as part of the repurchase. Cash Outlook Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings. Our future working capital requirements and capital expenditures may increase to support investment in product innovations and growth opportunities, or to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies. 53 Table of Contents In December 2011, we entered into a Senior Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a group of primarily Swiss banks that provides for a revolving multicurrency unsecured credit facility in an amount of up to $250.0 million. We may, upon notice to the lenders and subject to certain requirements, arrange with existing or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $150.0 million in additional commitments, for a total of $400.0 million of unsecured revolving credit. The credit facility may be used for working capital, general corporate purposes, and acquisitions. The credit facility matures on October 31, 2016. We may prepay the loans under the credit facility in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. The facility agreement contains representations, covenants, including threshold financial covenants, and events of default customary in Swiss credit markets. There were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility at June 30, 2013. As of June 30, 2013, we were not in compliance with the adjusted equity ratio of this facility. Until we are in compliance with the covenants, this facility is not available for our use. In September 2008, our Board of Directors approved a share buyback program, which authorizes the Company to invest up to $250.0 million to purchase its own shares. In November 2011, we received approval from the Swiss regulatory authorities for an amendment to the September 2008 share buyback program to enable future repurchases of shares for cancellation. In fiscal year 2012, we repurchased 17.5 million shares for $156.0 million under the September 2008 program. Under the amended September 2008 program, we repurchased 8.6 million shares for $87.8 million during fiscal year 2013. As of June 30, 2013, the approved amount remaining under the amended September 2008 program was $6.5 million. On September 5, 2012, our shareholders approved the cancellation of 18.5 million shares repurchased under the September 2008 amended share buyback program. These shares were legally cancelled during the third quarter of fiscal year 2013. The Board of Directors has also proposed distribution of a gross dividend of CHF 0.21 per share (US dollar amount of $0.22 per share based on the exchange rate at June 30, 2013), or an aggregate amount of approximately CHF 33.4 million (US dollar amount of $35.5 million based on the exchange rate at June 30, 2013). If approved by shareholders, this dividend payment will be made in September 2013. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, we are generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to fiscal year 2001. We are under examination and have received assessment notices in foreign tax jurisdictions. At this time, we are not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Although we have adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate changes in the unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we implemented a restructuring plan to reduce operating costs and improve financial results. We substantially completed this restructuring plan during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013, we implemented an additional restructuring plan to realign our organization to increase our focus on mobility products, improve profitability in PC-related products and enhance our global operational efficiencies. Our other contractual obligations and commitments which require cash are described in the following sections. For over ten years, we have generated annual positive cash flows from our operating activities, including cash from operations of $117.1 million in fiscal year 2013. During fiscal year 2013, our normal level of cash and cash equivalents was significantly reduced by the cash dividend payment of CHF 125.7 million (U.S. dollar amount of $133.5 million at the time it was paid) out of retained earnings, and by the $87.8 million in share repurchases during this period. If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to support our operations and future planned cash requirements, our operations could be harmed and our access to credit facilities could be restricted or eliminated. We believe that, based on the trend of our historical cash flow generation, our projections of future operations and reduced expenses, our available cash balances and credit lines will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. 54 Table of Contents Although we believe that we can meet our liquidity needs, if we fail to meet our operating forecast or market conditions negatively affect our cash flows or ability to fund growth opportunities, we may be required to seek additional funding. If we seek additional funding, adequate funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plans and it could have a negative effect on our business, operating cash flows and financial condition. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of June 30, 2013, our outstanding contractual obligations and commitments included: (i) facilities leased under operating lease commitments, (ii) purchase commitments and obligations, (iii) long-term liabilities for income taxes payable, and (iv) defined benefit pension plan and non-retirement post-employment benefit obligations. The following summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments at June 30, 2013 (in thousands): June 30, 2013 Operating leases $ 85,704 Purchase commitments - inventory 104,336 Purchase obligations - capital expenditures 19,790 Purchase obligations - operating expenses 67,285 Income taxes payable - non-current 98,182 Obligation for deferred compensation 15,904 Pension and post-employment obligations 39,550 Other long-term liabilities 10,745 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 441,496 Operating Leases We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require it to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at our option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation. The remaining terms on our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2028. Our asset retirement obligations on these leases as of June 30, 2013 were $1.5 million. Purchase Commitments At June 30, 2013, we have fixed purchase commitments of $104.3 million for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, which are expected to be fulfilled by December 2013. We also had commitments of $67.3 million for consulting services, marketing arrangements, advertising, outsourced customer services, information technology maintenance and support services, and other services. Fixed purchase commitments for capital expenditures amounted to $19.8 million at June 30, 2013, and primarily relate to commitments for computer hardware and leasehold improvements. We expect to continue making capital expenditures in the future to support product development activities and ongoing and expanded operations. Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to reschedule and adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services. 55 Table of Contents Income Taxes Payable At June 30, 2013, we had $98.2 million in non-current income taxes payable, including interest and penalties, related to our income tax liability for recognized uncertain tax positions, compared with $98.8 million in non-current taxes payable as of March 31, 2013. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, we are generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to fiscal year 2001. We are under examination and have received assessment notices in foreign tax jurisdictions. At this time, we are not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Although we have adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate the decrease of the unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months. Obligation for Deferred Compensation At June 30, 2013, we had $15.9 million in liabilities related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries. For more information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Pension and Post-Employment Obligations At June 30, 2013, we had $40.8 million in liabilities related to our defined benefit pension plans and non-retirement post-employment benefit obligations, of which $1.3 million is payable in the next 12 months. For more information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to us. Guarantees Logitech International S.A., the parent holding company, has guaranteed payment of the purchase obligations of various subsidiaries from certain component suppliers. These guarantees generally have an unlimited term. The maximum potential future payment under the guarantee arrangements is limited to $30.0 million. At June 30, 2013, there were no purchase obligations outstanding for which the parent holding company was required to guarantee payment. Logitech Europe S.A., a subsidiary of the parent holding company, has guaranteed the purchase obligations of another Logitech subsidiary under two guarantee agreements. One of these guarantees does not specify a maximum amount. The remaining guarantee has a total limit of $7.0 million. As of June 30, 2013, $0.1 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding under these guarantees. Logitech Europe S.A. has also guaranteed payment of the purchase obligations of a third-party contract manufacturer under one guarantee agreement. The maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.5 million as of June 30, 2013. As of June 30, 2013, $2.8 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding under this agreement. 56 Table of Contents Logitech International S.A. and Logitech Europe S.A. have guaranteed certain contingent liabilities of various subsidiaries related to transactions occurring in the normal course of business. The maximum amount of the guarantees was $34.0 million as of June 30, 2013. As of June 30, 2013, $6.0 million of guaranteed obligations were outstanding under these agreements. Indemnifications Logitech indemnifies certain of its suppliers and customers for losses arising from matters such as intellectual property disputes and product safety defects, subject to certain restrictions. The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys fees. No amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions at June 30, 2013. We do not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under our indemnification arrangements. Logitech also indemnifies its current and former directors and certain of its current and former officers. Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies. Logitech is unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not capped, the obligations are conditional in nature, and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable. Legal Proceedings From time to time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of its business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors. Any failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect our business.