ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the interim unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our business strategy, the impact of investment prioritization decisions, product offerings, sales and marketing initiatives, addressing execution challenges, trends in consumer demand affecting our products and markets, trends in the composition of our customer base, our current or future revenue and revenue mix by product, among our lower- and higher-margin products and by geographic region, our expectations regarding the potential growth opportunities for our products in mature and emerging markets and the enterprise market, our expectations regarding trends in global economic conditions and consumer demand for PCs and mobile devices, smartphones, tablets, gaming, audio, video and video conferencing, digital home digital music and other computer devices and the interoperability of our products with such third party platforms, our expectations regarding the convergence of markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, our competitive position and the effect of pricing, product, marketing and other initiatives by us and our competitors, the impact of our restructuring plan on future costs, expenses and financial performance and the timing thereof, our estimates of future charges related to our restructuring plan, our expectations regarding the recoverability of our goodwill, goodwill impairment charge estimates and the potential for future impairment charges, the impact of our current and proposed product divestitures, changes in our planned divestitures, and the timing thereof, significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the impact of new product introductions and product innovation on future performance or anticipated costs and expenses and the timing thereof, cash flows, the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated and available borrowings (including the availability of our uncommitted lines of credit) to fund future cash requirements, compliance with our credit facilities, our expectations regarding share repurchases and share cancellations, our expectations regarding our future working capital requirements and our anticipated capital expenditures needed to support our product development and expanded operations, our expectations regarding our future tax benefits and the adequacy of our provisions for uncertain tax positions, our expectations regarding our potential indemnification obligations, and the outcome of pending or future legal proceedings and tax audits, remediation of our material weaknesses and Logitechs ability to achieve and sustain renewed growth, profitability and future success. Forward-looking statements also include, among others, those statements including the words anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict, should, will, and similar language. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual performance to differ materially from that anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document. Overview of Our Company Logitech is a world leader in products that connect people to the digital experiences they care about. Spanning multiple computing, communication and entertainment platforms, we develop and market innovative hardware and software products that enable or enhance digital navigation, music and video entertainment, gaming, social networking, and audio and video communication over the Internet. We have two reporting segments: peripherals and video conferencing. Our peripherals segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of peripherals for PCs (personal computers), tablets and other digital platforms. Our products for home and business PCs include mice, trackballs, keyboards, interactive gaming controllers, multimedia speakers, headsets and webcams. Our tablet accessory products include keyboards, keyboard cases and covers, headphones, wireless 34 Table of Contents speakers and earphones. Our Internet communications products include webcams and headsets. Our digital music products include wireless speakers, earphones, headphones and custom in-ear monitors. For home entertainment systems, we offer the Harmony line of advanced remote controls. Our gaming products include mice, keyboards, headsets and gaming controllers. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, we identified a number of product categories that no longer fit with our current strategic direction. As a result, we made a strategic decision to divest our remote product category and our digital video security product line, included within our video product category. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, we updated our strategic focus, deciding to retain our remote product category and transition out of our digital video security product line. Since fiscal year 2013, we have been exiting other non-strategic products, such as speaker docks, and continue to evaluate non-strategic products as part of our ongoing portfolio management. Our brand, portfolio management, product definition and engineering teams in our peripherals segment are responsible for product strategy, technological innovation, product design and development, and bringing our products to market. Our peripherals business groups are organized by the following product categories: Pointing Devices, PC Keyboards & Desktops, Tablet Accessories, Audio PC, Audio-Wearables & Wireless, Video, PC Gaming and Remotes. Our global marketing organization is responsible for developing and building the Logitech brand, consumer insights, public relations and social media, and digital marketing. Our regional retail sales and marketing activities are organized into three geographic areas: Americas (including North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Asia Pacific (including, among other countries, China, Taiwan, Japan and Australia). We sell our peripherals products to a network of distributors, retailers and OEMs. Our worldwide retail network includes wholesale distributors, consumer electronics retailers, mass merchandisers, specialty electronics stores, computer and telecommunications stores, value-added resellers and online merchants. Sales of peripherals to our retail channels were 87% and 86% of our net sales for the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012. The large majority of our revenues have historically been derived from sales of our peripherals products for use by consumers. Our OEM customers include several of the worlds largest PC manufacturers. Sales to OEM customers were 7% of our net sales for each of the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012. Our video conferencing segment encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of video conferencing products, infrastructure and services for the enterprise, public sector, and other small to medium business markets. Video conferencing products include scalable HD (high-definition) video communication endpoints, HD video conferencing systems with integrated monitors, video bridges and other infrastructure software and hardware to support large-scale video deployments, and services to support these products. The video conferencing segment maintains a separate marketing and sales organization, which sells LifeSize products and services worldwide. Video conferencing product development and product management organizations are separate, but coordinated with our peripherals business, particularly our Consumer Computing Platform group. We sell our LifeSize products and services to distributors, value-added resellers, OEMs, and occasionally, direct enterprise customers. Sales of LifeSize products were 6% and 7% of our net sales in the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012. During fiscal year 2013, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $214.5 million related to our video conferencing segment. We seek to fulfill the increasing demand for interfaces between people and the expanding digital world across multiple platforms and user environments. The interface evolves as platforms, user models and our target markets evolve. As access to digital information has expanded, we have extended our focus to mobile devices, the digital home, and the enterprise as access points to the Internet and the digital world. All of these platforms require interfaces that are customized according to how the devices are used. We believe that continued investment in product research and development is critical to creating the innovation required to strengthen our competitive advantage and to drive future sales growth. We are committed to identifying and meeting current and future consumer trends with new and improved product technologies, partnering with others where our strengths are complementary, as well as leveraging the value of the Logitech and LifeSize brands from a competitive, channel partner and consumer experience perspective. 35 Table of Contents We believe innovation and product quality are important to gaining market acceptance and maintaining market leadership. We have been expanding the categories of products we sell and entering new markets, such as the markets for mobile device accessories. As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have. In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our new categories as well as future ones we might enter. Many of these companies have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. The peripherals and video conferencing industries are intensely competitive. The peripherals industry is characterized by platform evolution, short product life cycles, continual performance enhancements, and rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors in our retail markets, and price sensitivity in the OEM market. We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by some retail customers known as house brands, in response to declining consumer demand in both mature retail and OEM markets. We may also encounter more competition if any of our competitors in one or more categories decide to enter other categories in which we currently operate. From time to time, we may seek to partner with or acquire, when appropriate, companies that have products, personnel, and technologies that complement our strategic direction. We continually review our product offerings and our strategic direction in light of our profitability targets, competitive conditions, changing consumer trends, and the evolving nature of the interface between the consumer and the digital world. Revision of Financial Statements for the Three and Six Months ended September 30, 2012 In the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, we identified errors related to the accounting for our product warranty liability and amortization expense of certain intangible assets. The errors impacted prior reporting periods, starting prior to fiscal year 2009. While these errors were not material to any previously issued annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements, management concluded that correcting the cumulative errors and related tax effects, which amounted to $19.1 million, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, would be material to the consolidated financial statements for the three months ended June 30, 2013 and to the expected results of operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014. We evaluated the cumulative impact of the errors on prior periods under the guidance in ASC 250-10 relating to SEC SAB No. 99, Materiality . We also evaluated the impact of correcting the errors through an adjustment to our financial statements and concluded, based on the guidance within ASC 250-10 relating to SAB No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements , to revise our previously issued financial statements to reflect the impact of the correction of these errors when we file subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K. Accordingly, we revised our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 to correct these errors. In addition, as a result of the decision to revise our previously issued consolidated financial statements to correct for the errors described above, we corrected other immaterial errors that were previously uncorrected. We filed a Form 10-K/A to revise our financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 to correct for the same errors. As a result, we have also revised our financial statements for the three and six months ended September 30, 2012 from what we previously reported. The revised financial statements corrected the following errors: (1) - Warranty accrual We determined that our prior warranty model did not accurately estimate warranty costs and liabilities. The inherent flaws in the prior model involved use of generic assumptions, incomplete warranty cost data and inter-regional methodological differences. This error impacted prior reporting periods, starting prior to fiscal year 2009, and impacted deferred tax asset classification between current and non-current assets. 36 Table of Contents (2) - Amortization of intangibles We determined that $4.2 million in intangible assets originating from a November 2009 acquisition were never amortized. The impact of this adjustment was $2.0 million in amortization expense not properly recorded during the periods from the quarter ended December 31, 2009 through the end of fiscal year 2013. (3) - Other adjustments We also corrected a number of other immaterial errors, including the cumulative translation adjustment related to the purchase of treasury shares, and an adjustment affecting the amount of property, plant and equipment purchased during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. The adjustments made as a result of the revisions to the historical financial statements are more fully discussed in Note 2, Revision of Previously Issued Financial Statements , to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summary of Financial Results Our total net sales for the six months ended September 30, 2013 decreased 1%, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2012, due to a decrease of 2% in OEM sales and a decrease of 16% in video conferencing sales, offset in part by an increase of 1% in retail sales. Retail sales during the six months ended September 30, 2013 increased 1% and retail units sold decreased 5%, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2012. We experienced an increase of 9% in the Americas and a decrease of 7% in the EMEA regions. Sales in Asia Pacific region remained constant. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage changes in our constant dollar retail sales would have been a decrease of 1% for total retail sales, an increase of 9% in the Americas, an increase of 4% in the Asia Pacific, and a decrease of 9% in the EMEA regions. Sales incentive spending (including pricing discounts) during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2012, increased by 4% during this period. Sales returns expense during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2012, decreased by 13% due to lower channel inventory return rate and lower channel inventory level during this period. OEM net sales decreased 2% and units sold remained constant in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the preceding fiscal year. The decline was primarily due to overall weak market conditions for sale of new desktop PCs. Sales of video conferencing products, which were 7% of total net sales in the six months ended September 30, 2013, decreased by 16% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2012, due to a combination of a changing industry landscape caused by a shift to less expensive, cloud-based video conferencing solutions, an evolving LifeSize product line and challenges in execution. Our gross margin for the six months ended September 30, 2013 improved to 34.8%, compared with 33.6% for the six months ended September 30, 2012. The improvement in gross margin for the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily resulted from cost improvements in some of our PC-related categories and from actions we took during fiscal year 2013 to streamline our product portfolio. The improvement also resulted from negative factors affecting our gross margin during the same period of the prior fiscal year which did not exist during the six months ended September 30, 2013, including $4.5 million in pricing actions related to the simplification of our product portfolio in the Americas and EMEA regions, $3.0 million in costs related to product development efforts that were discontinued as a result of the April 2012 restructuring, and a provision for a patent dispute. The improvement was offset in part by a $5.2 million write-off of video conferencing discontinued products resulting from the restructuring of our video conferencing reporting segment during the quarter ended September 30, 2013. 37 Table of Contents Operating expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2013 were 33.1% of net sales, compared with 37.0% in the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease in total operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a decrease of $20.8 million in restructuring charges combined with a $17.1 million decrease in market and selling expense due to a decline in marketing spend activity. Net income for the six months ended September 30, 2013 was $15.4 million, compared with net income of $3.4 million in the six months ended September 30, 2012. This improvement primarily resulted from a decrease of $20.8 million in restructuring charges and a decrease in market and selling expense, offset in part by a shift from a $38.0 million benefit from income taxes during the six months ended September 30, 2012 to a $2.3 million provision for income taxes during the six months ended September 30, 2013. Trends in Our Business Our sales of PC peripherals for use by consumers in the Americas and Europe have historically made up the large majority of our revenues. In the last several years, the PC market has changed dramatically and there continues to be significant weakness in the global market for new PCs. This weakness had a negative impact on our net sales in all of our PC-related categories. We believe that this weakness reflects the growing popularity of tablets and smartphones as mobile computing devices. We believe Logitechs future growth will be determined by our ability to rapidly create innovative products across multiple digital platforms, especially accessories for mobility-related products, including tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, and for digital music, including wireless speakers and wearables such as earphones, to limit and offset the decline in our PC peripherals. We pursue growth opportunities in emerging markets, mobility-related products, products for digital music and enterprise markets. The following discussion represents key trends specific to each of our two operating segments, peripherals and video conferencing. Trends Specific to our Peripherals Segment Mature and Emerging Markets. In our traditional, mature markets, such as North America, Western and Northern Europe, Japan, and Australia, although the installed base of PC users is large, consumer demand for new PCs has declined in recent years, and we believe it will continue to decline in future years. As a consequence, consumer demand for PC peripherals is slowing, or in some case declining. While we continue to pursue growth opportunities in select PC peripherals product lines in mature markets, we believe there are growth opportunities for our PC peripherals outside the mature markets. We have invested significantly in growing the number of our sales, marketing and administrative personnel in China, our largest target emerging market, with the result that China was our second-largest country in retail sales for the six months ended September 30, 2013. We are also expanding our presence in other emerging markets. Enterprise Market . We are continuing our efforts to create and sell products and services to enterprises. We believe the preferences of employees increasingly drive companies choices in the information technologies they deploy to their employee base. Growing our enterprise peripherals business will continue to require investment in selected business-specific products, targeted product marketing, and sales channel development. Tablets, Smartphones and Other Mobile Devices. The increasing popularity of smaller, mobile computing devices, such as tablets and smartphones with touch interfaces, have created new markets and usage models for peripherals and accessories. Logitech has begun to offer products to enhance the use of mobile devices. For example, we are experiencing strong demand for our tablet keyboards. We introduced the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini, a slim protective keyboard cover designed to enhance the iPad mini experience during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. Demand for the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard mini 38 Table of Contents has continued to be very positive. The tablet accessories category is one of the primary strategic categories of our business. We continue to expand and leverage on our success in this category through the recent introduction of innovative products such as the Logitech Keyboard Folio and Folio mini, the Logitech FabricSkin Keyboard Folio for iPad and iPad mini, the Logitech Wired Keyboard for iPad, and the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Folio for Samsung Galaxy Tablet. Digital Music. We believe that digital music, the seamless consumption of digital audio content on mobile devices, presents a growth opportunity for Logitech, based on our history of successful earphone and speaker products. Many consumers listen to music as a pervasive entertainment activity, fueled by the growth in smartphones, tablets, music services and Internet radio. We believe we have a solid foundation of audio solutions to satisfy consumers needs for music consumption, including earphones and digital music speakers. We continue to invest and introduce innovative new products in this category such as UE BOOM, a wireless speaker offering 360-degree stereo sound announced in late May 2013. OEM Business. Sales of our OEM mice and keyboards have historically made up the bulk of our OEM sales. In recent years, there has been a dramatic shift away from desktop PCs and there continues to be significant weakness in the global market for PCs, which has adversely affected our sales of OEM mice and keyboards, all of which are sold with name-brand desktop PCs. We expect this trend to continue and for OEM sales to comprise a smaller percentage of our total revenues in the future. Trends in Other Peripherals Product Categories . Some of our other peripherals product categories are experiencing significant market challenges. As the quality of PC-embedded webcams improves along with the increasing popularity of tablets and smartphones with embedded webcams, we expect future sales of our PC-connected webcams in mature consumer markets to continue declining. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, we identified a number of product categories that no longer fit with our current strategic direction. As a result, we made a strategic decision to divest our entire Retail-Remotes product category and our digital video security product line included in our Retail-Video product category. During the first quarter fiscal year 2014, we updated our strategic focus deciding to retain our Retail-Remote product category. We will continue to evaluate our product offerings and will exit those which no longer support our strategic direction. Trends Specific to our Video Conferencing Segment The trend among businesses and institutions to use video conferencing offers a long-term growth opportunity for Logitech. However, the overall video conferencing industry has experienced a slowdown in recent quarters. In addition, there has been an increase in the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013. This resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013 and the second quarter fiscal year 2014, we implemented restructuring plans affecting our video conferencing operating segment to align its organization to it strategic priorities of increasing focus on a tighter range of products, expanding cloud-based video conferencing services and improving profitability. We believe the growth in our video conferencing segment depends in part on our ability to increase sales to enterprises with existing installed bases of equipment supplied by our competitors, and to enterprises that may purchase such competitor equipment in the future. We believe the ability of our LifeSize products to interoperate with the equipment of other telecommunications, video conferencing or telepresence equipment suppliers to be a key factor in purchasing decisions by current or prospective LifeSize customers. In addition, LifeSize has broadened its product portfolio to include infrastructure, cloud services and other offerings which require different approaches to developing customer solutions. We also are seeking to offer LifeSize products designed to enhance the use of mobile devices in video conferencing applications. 39 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America) requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We consider an accounting estimate critical if it: (i) requires management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain; and (ii) is important to an understanding of Logitechs financial condition and operating results. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact us in the future, actual results could differ from those estimates. Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. There have been no significant changes during the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, except for product warranty accrual, to the nature of the critical accounting policies, and no significant changes to the critical accounting estimates that were disclosed in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Product Warranty Accrual We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of our typical experience. Each quarter, we reevaluate our estimates to assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of products subject to warranty protection and adjust the amounts as necessary. If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liabilities would be required and could materially affect our results of operations. As discussed in the subsection titled, Revision of Financial Statements for the three and six months ended September 30, 2012 , we determined that our prior warranty model did not accurately accrue for costs of product warranties given to end customers, including an on-going review of the assumptions to determine the completeness and accuracy of the warranty accrual at each reporting period. The inherent flaws in the prior model involved use of generic assumptions, incomplete warranty cost data and inter-regional methodological differences. During the quarter ended June 30, 2013, we developed and implemented a new warranty model (new model) to estimate its warranty costs and liability at each reporting period. The new model has been implemented by all regions and incorporates a waterfall method to more accurately capture consumer return behavior and a single model approach for all regions. Key assumptions used in the new model include: Warranty expenses: All warranty costs, including product, freight, handling and warehousing costs are captured by the new model. Sell-through revenue, if available: Use of sell-through revenue, defined as sales data to end consumers, is relevant given that the warranty period comments on the date the consumer purchases the product. Historic product return waterfall rates: Waterfall rates are used in the new model to predict consumer product warranty returns based on historical consumer behavior patterns. 40 Table of Contents This error impacted prior reporting periods, starting prior to fiscal year 2009, and resulted in a $17.1 million cumulative correcting adjustment to our consolidated financial statements from the beginning of fiscal year 2009 through the end of fiscal year 2013. Recent Accounting Pronouncement In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists . The ASU provides explicit guidance on the financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. ASU No. 2013-11 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2013. We do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Results of Operations Net Sales Net sales by channel for the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended September 30, Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 Change % 2013 2012 Change % Retail $ 464,853 $ 476,479 (2 )% $ 878,089 $ 871,580 1 % OEM 37,526 36,718 2 % 72,039 73,393 (2 )% Video Conferencing 29,593 34,496 (14 )% 59,768 71,324 (16 )% Total net sales $ 531,972 $ 547,693 (3 )% $ 1,009,896 $ 1,016,297 (1 )% The following table presents the approximate percentage of our total net sales that were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012: Three Months ended September 30, Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Currencies other than USD 45 % 47 % 44 % 45 % If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage change in our constant dollar net sales would have been: Three Months ended Six Months ended September 30, 2013 September 30, 2013 Retail (3 )% 1 % OEM 3 % (2 )% Video Conferencing (14 )% (16 )% Total net sales (3 )% (1 )% Our retail sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 decreased by 2% and increased by 1%, compared with the same periods of the prior fiscal year. Retail sales increased in Americas and declined in EMEA and Asia Pacific regions during the three months ended September 30, 2013, and increased in Americas, declined in EMEA, and remained constant in Asia Pacific regions during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same periods of the prior fiscal year. Retail units sold decreased 4% and 5% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with 41 Table of Contents the same periods of the prior fiscal year. Our overall retail average selling price increased by 2% and 6% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2013. Products priced below $40 represented approximately 53% and 54% of retail sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with 53% and 59% of retail sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2012. Sales of retail products priced above $100 represented 15% and 14% of retail sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with 12% and 11% of total retail sales in the three and six months ended September 31, 2012. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, our constant dollar retail sales increase would have been a decrease of 3% and an increase of 1%. OEM net sales increased 2% and decreased 2% and units sold increased 2% and remained constant in the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same periods in the prior fiscal year. The increase during the three months ended September 30, 2013 was due to new business from a large customer as well as a sale opportunity in the Gaming category. The decline during the six months ended September 30, 2013 was primarily due to overall weak market conditions for sale of new desktop PCs. Video conferencing net sales decreased 14% and 16% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same periods of the prior fiscal year. This decrease primarily resulted from the combination of a changing industry landscape caused by a shift to less expensive, cloud-based video conferencing solutions, an evolving LifeSize product line and challenges in execution. We refer to our net sales excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates as constant dollar sales. Constant dollar sales are a non-GAAP financial measure, which is information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures in its financial and operational decision-making, and believes these non-GAAP measures, when considered in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, facilitate a better understanding of changes in net sales. Constant dollar sales are calculated by translating prior period sales in each local currency at the current periods average exchange rate for that currency. Retail Sales by Region The following table presents the changes in retail units sold, retail sales and constant dollar retail sales by region for the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the three and six months ended September 30, 2012. Three Months ended September 30, 2013 Six Months ended September 30, 2013 Change in Change in Change in Change in Retail Units Change in Constant Dollar Retail Units Change in Constant Dollar Sold Retail Sales Retail Sales Sold Retail Sales Retail Sales EMEA (14 )% (10 )% (13 )% (13 )% (7 )% (9 )% Asia Pacific 4 % (4 )% 0 % (1 )% 0 % 4 % Americas 2 % 7 % 7 % 0 % 9 % 9 % Total retail sales (4 )% (2 )% (3 )% (5 )% 1 % 1 % Americas The Americas region experienced a 7% increase in retail sales during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Sales increased in Pointing Devices, PC Keyboards & Desktops, Audio-Wearables & Wireless, Tablet Accessories and PC Gaming, offset in part by sales declines in Audio-PC, Non-strategic Other, Remotes and Video. Sales increase in Pointing Devices was driven by both high-end and low-end products, while sales increase in PC Keyboards & Desktops was driven by low-end products. Sales increase in Tablets Accessories was led by sales increases from the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for iPad mini, and from the recently introduced 42 Table of Contents Logitech Keyboard Folio suite of products designed for the iPad and iPad mini. We also experienced sales increases in PC Gaming due to a recent launch of new gaming products and in Audio-Wearables & Wireless from the UE Mobile Boombox and the UE BOOM. Compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, we experienced sales improvement in the United States and Canada. Retail sell-through in the Americas region increased 4% in three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. The Americas region experienced a 9% increase in retail sales during six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Sales increased in Tablet Accessories, Pointing Devices, PC Keyboards & Desktops, Audio-Wearables & Wireless, and PC Gaming, offset in part by sales declines in Non-strategic Other, Audio-PC, Remotes and Video. This increase was led by sales increase in Tablet Accessories due to sales increase from the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for iPad mini, and from the recently introduced Logitech Keyboard Folio suite of products designed for the iPad and iPad mini. We also experienced sales increases in Pointing Devices driven by mid-range and high-end products, in PC Keyboards & Desktops driven by low-end products, in Audio-Wearables & Wireless from the UE Mobile Boombox and the UE BOOM, and in PC Gaming due to a recent launch of new gaming products. During the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year, we experienced improvement in the United States and Canada. Retail sell-through in the Americas region increased 4% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. EMEA Retail sales in the EMEA region experienced a 10% decrease during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Sales declined in all categories except Audio-Wearables & Wireless and PC Keyboards & Desktops. We experienced significant sales decrease in Germany, our largest country within this region, due to execution challenges that we are in the process of addressing. The decrease in Germany was offset in part by a sales increase in the United Kingdom. Retail sell-through in the EMEA region decreased 5% in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Retail sales in the EMEA region a 7% decrease during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. During the six months ended September 30, 2013, sales declined in all categories except Audio-Wearables & Wireless, Tablet Accessories, Remotes and PC Keyboards & Desktops. During the six months ended September 30, 2013, we also experienced significant sales decrease in Germany due to execution challenges which we are in the process of addressing. The decrease in Germany was offset in part by sales increase in the United Kingdom. Retail sell-through in the EMEA region decreased 6% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Asia Pacific Asia Pacific region retail sales decreased by 4% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily driven by declines in Non-Strategic Other, Audio-PC, Audio-Wearable & Wireless, Video and Tablet Accessories, offset in part by increases in PC Gaming, Pointing Devices, PC Keyboards & Desktops and Remotes. We experienced sales decline in Japan, offset in part by sales growth in China, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Retail sell-through in the Asia Pacific region increased 3% in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Asia Pacific region retail sales remained constant during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Sales in PC Gaming, Tablet Accessories, PC Keyboard & Desktops and Remotes increased while sales in Audio PC, non-strategic Other, Video, Pointing Device, Audio-PC and Audio-Wearables & Wireless decreased. We also experienced sales decrease in Japan, offset in part by sales growth in China, compared to the same periods of the prior fiscal year. Retail sell-through in the Asia Pacific region increased 2% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. 43 Table of Contents Net Retail Sales by Product Category Net retail sales by product category during the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended September 30, Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 Change % 2013 2012 Change % Retail - Pointing Devices $ 130,656 $ 122,524 7 % $ 245,307 $ 238,353 3 % Retail - PC Keyboards & Desktops 105,236 97,069 8 % 203,186 191,628 6 % Retail - Tablet Accessories 34,711 33,737 3 % 73,270 49,623 48 % Retail - Audio PC 67,199 77,267 (13 )% 119,164 138,792 (14 )% Retail - Audio - Wearables & Wireless 25,648 19,108 34 % 44,723 33,707 33 % Retail - Video 41,061 49,453 (17 )% 76,319 86,612 (12 )% Retail - PC Gaming 41,493 46,673 (11 )% 81,110 73,456 10 % Retail - Remotes 13,327 16,434 (19 )% 27,901 30,166 (8 )% Retail - Other 5,522 14,214 (61 )% 7,109 29,243 (76 )% $ 464,853 $ 476,479 $ 878,089 $ 871,580 Retail Pointing Devices Retail sales of Pointing Devices increased 7% and retail units sold increased 3% in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period ended September 30, 2012. The growth was primarily from the Americas region, where sales increased by 16%, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. The growth was offset in part by the continued weakness in the global PC market. Specifically, the increase during the three months ended September 30, 2013 was driven by our low-end product offerings, which experienced a 12% increase, followed by our high-end product offerings, which experienced a 53% increase, offset in part by a decrease of 25% in our mid-range product offerings. Sales of all cordless mice increased 9% and units sold increased 12% in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Corded mice sales decreased 4% and units sold decreased 9% in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. By geography, the Americas region sales and units sold increased by 16% and 10%, the EMEA region sales and units sold remained constant and decreased by 9%, and the Asia Pacific region sales and units sold increased by 5% and 16% during this period. Retail sales of Pointing Devices increased 3% and retail units sold increased 2% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period ended September 30, 2012. The increase during the six months ended September 30, 2013 was primarily driven by our mid-range product offerings, which experienced a 9% increase, followed by our high-end product offerings, which experienced a 23% increase, offset in part by a decrease of 1% in our low-end product offerings. The growth was offset in part by the continued weakness in the global PC market. Sales of all cordless mice increased 6%, while units sold increased 8% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Corded mice sales and units sold decreased 7% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. By geography, the Americas region sales and units sold increased by 15% and 10%, the EMEA region sales and units sold decreased by 4% and 6%, and the Asia Pacific region sales and units sold decreased by 3% and increased by 6% during this period. Retail PC Keyboards and Desktops Retail sales of PC Keyboards & Desktops increased 8% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, and units sold increased 3% during this period. This sales increase was driven by a very strong quarter in our cordless keyboard category, led by our Wireless Touch Keyboard K400, which features an integrated touchpad and has been popular for use in the living room. Sales of corded and cordless keyboard decreased by 2% and increased by 33% in sales and decreased by 14% and increased by 29% in units sold during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. Sales of corded and cordless desktops increased by 7% and units sold increased by 6% and 18% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. By geography, the Americas region sales increased by 16% and units sold increased by 5%, the EMEA region sales increased by 3% and units sold decreased by 3%, and the Asia Pacific region sales and units sold increased by 5% and 7% during this period. 44 Table of Contents Retail sales of PC Keyboards & Desktops increased 6% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, while units sold decreased 1% during this period. This sales increase was driven by a very strong quarter in our cordless keyboard category, led by our Wireless Touch Keyboard K400. Sales of corded and cordless keyboard decreased by 10% and increased by 36% in sales and decreased by 20% and increased by 25% in units sold during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. Sales of corded and cordless desktops increased by 7% and 4% and units sold increased by 5% and 12% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. By geography, the Americas region sales increased by 15% and units sold remained constant, the EMEA region sales remained constant and units sold decreased by 7%, and the Asia Pacific region sales and units sold increased by 2% and 3% during this period. Retail Tablet Accessories Retail Tablet Accessories increased 3% and retail units sold increased 26% in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period ended September 30, 2012. The stronger unit growth reflects the broadening of our portfolio to address a larger portion of the tablet accessory market, including tablet cases. The relatively low sales growth in the quarter is primarily due to the timing of our new product launches. We launched a number of new iPad accessories in the first quarter of the current fiscal year, which led to a sales increase of over 100% during the first quarter. Given the timing of the release date of the next generation iPad, we did not have a similar product launch during the quarter ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same quarter of the prior year. Specifically, this increase in sales was driven by strong demand from the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for the iPad Mini and the Logitech Keyboard Folio suite of products designed for the iPad and iPad mini. By geography, the Americas region sales increased by 21% and units sold increased by 23%, the EMEA region sales decreased by 13% while units sold increased by 37%, and the Asia Pacific region sales decreased by 19% while units sold increased by 17% during this period. Retail Tablet Accessories increased 48% and retail units sold increased 70% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period ended September 30, 2012. This increase was driven by sales growth from the Logitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for the iPad Mini and the Logitech Keyboard Folio suite of products designed for the iPad and iPad mini. The stronger unit growth reflects the broadening of our portfolio to address a larger portion of the tablet accessory market, including tablet cases. By geography, the Americas region sales increased by 56% and units sold increased by 64%, the EMEA region sales increased by 25% while units sold increased by 64%, and the Asia Pacific region sales increased by 70% while units sold increased by 100% during this period. Retail Audio-PC Retail Audio-PC sales and units sold decreased 13% and 17% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. This decrease was due to sales and unit declines of 14% and 17% in PC speakers and sales and unit declines of 11% and 17% in PC headsets. These declines reflect both weakness in the overall market for new PCs, a market shift toward mobile audio devices, and a product line that has not been meaningfully refreshed in over a year. We have started to address this situation through our recent introduction of the Logitech Bluetooth Speakers Z600, wireless stereo speakers that stream music and other audio from a computer, smartphone or tablet. By geography, we experienced declines in all regions during this period. The declines were led by the Asia Pacific region where sales and units sold decreased by 19% and 27%, followed by the EMEA region where sales and units sold decreased by 11% and 19%, and by the Americas region where sales and units sold decreased by 14% and 11%. 45 Table of Contents Retail Audio-PC sales and units sold decreased 14% and 20% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. This decrease was due to sales and unit declines of 14% and 19% in PC speakers and sales and unit declines of 15% and 22% in PC headsets. These declines reflect both weakness in the overall market for new PCs, a market shift toward mobile audio devices, and a product line that has not been meaningfully refreshed in over a year. We have started to address this situation through our recent introduction of the Logitech Bluetooth Speakers Z600, wireless stereo speakers that stream music and other audio from a computer, smartphone or tablet. By geography, we experienced declines in all regions during this period. The declines were led by the Asia Pacific region where sales and units sold decreased by 21% and 31%, followed by the EMEA region where sales and units sold decreased by 13% and 21%, and by the Americas region where sales and units sold decreased by 13% and 14%. Retail Audio - Wearables & Wireless Retail Audio-Wearables & Wireless sales increased 34% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, while retail units sold decreased 35% during this period. This increase was due to a 119% increase in our wireless speakers for smartphones and tablets, driven by strong demand for the UE Mobile Boombox, the UE BOOM and the UE Mini Boombox. Sales of our audio wearables products continued to be weak, decreasing by 49% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. By geography, we experienced strong overall growth in Americas and EMEA regions, led by the Americas region where sales increased by 73% while units sold decreased by 19%, followed by the EMEA region where sales increased by 63% while units sold decreased by 4%, offset in part by the Asia Pacific region where sales and units sold decreased by 27% and 59%. Retail Audio-Wearables & Wireless sales increased 33% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, while retail units sold decreased 29% during this period. This increase was due to a 122% increase in our wireless speakers for smartphones and tablets, driven by strong demand for the UE Mobile Boombox, the UE BOOM and UE Mini Boombox. Sales of our audio wearables products continued to be weak, decreasing by 45% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. By geography, we experienced strong growth in Americas and EMEA regions, led by the Americas region where sales increased by 51% while units sold decreased by 14%, followed by the EMEA region where sales and units sold increased by 59% and 3%, offset in part by the Asia Pacific region where sales and units sold decreased by 5% and 51%. Retail Video Retail Video sales and units sold decreased by 17% and 31% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. The sales decrease was mainly due to weakness in our retail webcam product line, which declined by 14% during this period, and which continued to be negatively impacted by the combination of market trends, including the popularity of embedded webcams in mobile devices, and the overall weakness of the PC market. The decline in our webcam product line was concentrated in the low-end, from which we are gradually shifting away. The decline was offset in part by strong growth in our high-end webcam category, which increased by 25%, driven by the Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920 and the webcams targeted at the Unified Communications applications. The decrease in retail video sales was also from a 25% decline in our digital video security products, a category we announced we would transition out of by the end of fiscal year 2014. By geography, sales and units sold decreased by 7% and 16% in the Americas region, 26% and 42% in the EMEA region, and 15% and 25% in the Asia Pacific region. Retail Video sales and units sold decreased by 12% and 31% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. The sales decrease was mainly due to weakness in our consumer webcam product line, which declined by 10% during this period, and which continued to be negatively impacted by the combination of market trends, including the popularity of embedded webcams in mobile devices, and the overall weakness of the PC market. The decline in our 46 Table of Contents webcam product line was concentrated in the low-end, from which we are gradually shifting away. The decline was offset in part by strong growth in our high-end category, which increased by 40%, and our mid-range webcam category, which increased by 195%, driven by the Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920 and the webcams targeted at the Unified Communications applications. The decrease in retail video sales was also from a 26% decline in our digital video security products. By geography, sales and units sold decreased by 1% and 15%, 21% and 42%, and 13% and 28% in Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, respectively. Retail PC Gaming Retail PC Gaming sales and units sold decreased by 11% and 1% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily driven by the weakness in EMEA region caused by poor sales execution in Germany, our largest market in the region. The decrease was offset in part by the recent launch of new gaming products, including mice, keyboards and headsets. PC Gaming sales increased by 17% and 14% in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions and decreased by 34% in the EMEA region in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Retail PC Gaming sales and units sold increased by 10% and 6% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year. This growth was driven by the recent launch of new gaming products, including mice, keyboards and headsets. PC Gaming sales increased by 39% and 24% in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions and decreased by 11% in the EMEA region in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. Retail Remotes Retail sales and units sold of our Remotes category decreased 19% and 51% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. The 51% decline in units sold, relative to the 19% sales decrease, reflects our shift in focus on high-end remote categories. During the three months ended September 30, 2013, we experienced strong demand for the Logitech Harmony Ultimate and Harmony Touch, our premium remote product launched during the current quarter. By geography, remote sales decreased in the Americas and the EMEA regions by 20% and 19%, and increased by 7% in the Asia Pacific region. Retail sales and units sold of our Remotes category decreased 8% and 46% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. The 46% decline in units sold, relative to the 8% sales decrease, reflects our shift in focus on high-end remote categories. During the six months ended September 30, 2013, we also experienced strong demand for the Logitech Harmony Ultimate and Harmony Touch. By geography, remote sales decreased in the Americas region by 17% and increased by 31% and 74% in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions. Retail Other This category comprises a variety of products that we currently intend to transition out of, or have already transitioned out of, because they are no longer strategic to our business. Products currently included in this category include speaker docks, streaming media systems, console gaming peripherals and other products. We will continue to evaluate non-strategic products as part of our ongoing portfolio management. Retail sales of this category decreased by 61% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year, while retail units sold decreased 59% during this period. Our other category sales in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions decreased by 73%, 42% and 105% in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with same period of the prior fiscal year. 47 Table of Contents Retail sales of this category decreased by 76% during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period in the prior fiscal year, while retail units sold decreased 73% during this period. Our other category sales in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions decreased by 86%, 64% and 105% in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with same period of the prior fiscal year. OEM OEM sales and units sold increased by 2% and 2% during the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily driven by a 32% increase in OEM PC Keyboards & Desktops sales during this period due to new business from a large customer as well as a sale opportunity in the Gaming category. OEM sales and units sold decreased by 2% and remained constant during the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily driven by the weakness of global PC market, offset in part by a 23% increase in OEM PC Keyboards & Desktops sales during this period due to new business from a large customer as well as a sale opportunity in the Gaming category. Video Conferencing Video conferencing net sales decreased 14% and 16% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same periods of the prior fiscal year. This decrease was experienced in all geographic regions, and resulted from the combination of a changing industry landscape caused by a shift to less expensive, cloud-based video conferencing solutions, an evolving LifeSize product line and challenges in execution. Gross Profit Gross profit for the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended September 30, Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 Change 2013 2012 Change As Revised As Revised Net sales $ 531,972 $ 547,693 (3 )% $ 1,009,896 $ 1,016,297 (1 )% Cost of goods sold 348,559 351,919 (1 )% 658,128 675,177 (3 )% Gross profit $ 183,413 $ 195,774 (6 )% $ 351,768 $ 341,120 3 % Gross margin 34.5 % 35.7 % 34.8 % 33.6 % Gross profit consists of net sales, less cost of goods sold which includes materials, direct labor and related overhead costs, costs of manufacturing facilities, costs of purchasing components from outside suppliers, distribution costs, outside processing costs, write-down of inventories and amortization of intangible assets. The decline in gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily resulted from a $5.2 million write-off of discontinued products, resulting from the restructuring of our video conferencing reporting segment during the three months ended September 30, 2013. The improvement in gross margin for the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily resulted from cost improvements across all of our PC-related categories and from actions we took during fiscal year 2013 to streamline our product portfolio. The improvement also resulted from negative factors affecting the September 30, 2012 gross margin which did not exist during the three months ended September 30, 2013, including $4.5 million in pricing actions related to the simplification of our product portfolio in the Americas and EMEA regions, $3.0 million in costs related to product development efforts that were discontinued as a result of the April 2012 restructuring, and a provision for a patent dispute. The improvement was offset in part by the $5.2 million write-off of discontinued products, a product rationalization initiative resulting from the restructuring of our video conferencing reporting segment during the quarter ended September 30, 2013. 48 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended September 30, Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 Change 2013 2012 Change As Revised As Revised Marketing and selling $ 93,710 $ 110,522 (15 )% $ 194,345 $ 211,419 (8 )% % of net sales 18 % 20 % 19 % 21 % Research and development 37,633 38,114 (1 )% 73,824 77,137 (4 )% % of net sales 7 % 7 % 7 % 8 % General and administrative 29,395 25,980 13 % 58,543 58,460 0 % % of net sales 6 % 5 % 6 % 6 % Restructuring charges 5,465 (2,671 ) (305 )% 7,799 28,556 (73 )% % of net sales 1 % 0 % 1 % 3 % Total operating expenses $ 166,203 $ 171,945 (3 )% $ 334,511 $ 375,572 (11 )% The decrease in total operating expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the restructuring plans initiated in first and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2013, which reduced personnel-related expenses. We refer to our operating expenses excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates as constant dollar operating expenses. Constant dollar operating expenses are a non-GAAP financial measure, which is information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures in its financial and operational decision-making, and believes these non-GAAP measures, when considered in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, facilitate a better understanding of changes in operating expenses. Constant dollar operating expenses are calculated by translating prior period operating expenses in each local currency at the current periods average exchange rate for that currency. Marketing and Selling Marketing and selling expense consists of personnel and related overhead costs, corporate and product marketing, promotions, advertising, trade shows, customer and technical support and facilities costs. Marketing and selling expense reduced by 15% and 8% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same periods of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily driven by the decreases in personnel-related expenses and share-based compensation expense due to the reduction in worldwide workforce resulting from our recent restructuring plans. During the three months ended September 30, 2013, new product launches declined substantially since such activities were shifted to the three months ended June 30, 2013, which caused the decrease of marketing and selling expense during the three month ended September 30, 2013 being greater than the decrease during the six month ended September 30, 2013. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage change in constant dollar marketing and selling expense would have also been 15%. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage change in constant dollar marketing and selling expense would have also been 8%. 49 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expense consists of personnel and related overhead costs, contractors and outside consultants, supplies and materials, equipment depreciation and facilities costs, all associated with the design and development of new products and enhancements of existing products. Although we continued to make investments in product development, we experienced 1% and 4% decreases in research and development expense during the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the same period of the prior fiscal year, primarily from a decline in personnel-related expenses due to the reduction in worldwide workforce resulting from our recent restructuring plans. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the change in constant dollar research and development expense would have also been a decrease of 2%. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the change in constant dollar research and development expense would have also been a decrease of 4%. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel and related overhead and facilities costs for the finance, information systems, executive, human resources and legal functions. General and administrative expense increased 13% in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended September 30, 2012, primarily driven by higher variable compensation costs related to our improved performance during the current quarter. General and administrative expense remained constant in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2012. During the six months ended September, 2013, higher variable compensation costs were offset in part by the decline in personnel-related expenses, facility-related expenses and share-based compensation expense due to our recent restructuring plans combined with the write-off of the remaining lease obligations resulting from the exit of our former corporate headquarters which occurred during the three months ended June 30, 2012. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage change in constant dollar general and administrative expense would have also been a decrease of 13%. If foreign currency exchange rates had been the same in the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, the percentage change in constant dollar general and administrative expense would have also remained constant. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges consist of termination benefits, lease exit costs and other charges associated with our restructuring plans. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we implemented a restructuring plan to simplify our organization, to better align costs with our current business, and to free up resources to pursue growth opportunities. A majority of the restructuring activity was completed during the three months ended June 30, 2012. As part of this restructuring plan, we reduced our worldwide non-direct-labor workforce. Charges and other costs related to the workforce reduction are presented as restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of operations. During the three months ended September 30, 2012, we incurred a $3.8 million credit in termination benefits to affected employees due to the further refinement of estimates previously accrued during the three months ended June 30, 2012. For the six months ended September 30, 2012, we incurred $24.8 million in termination benefits to affected employees under this plan. Termination benefits are calculated based on regional benefit practices and local statutory requirements. In addition, we incurred legal, consulting, and other costs of $1.1 million and $2.2 million as a result of the terminations during the three and six months ended September 30, 2012. We also incurred $1.5 million in lease exit costs primarily related to costs associated with the closure of existing facilities during the six months ended September 30, 2012. 50 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013, we implemented an additional restructuring plan to align our organization to our strategic priorities of increasing focus on mobility products, improving profitability in PC-related products and enhancing global operational efficiencies. As part of this restructuring plan, we reduced our worldwide non-direct-labor workforce. Restructuring charges under this plan primarily consisted of severance and other one-time termination benefits. Charges and other costs related to the workforce reduction are presented as restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of operations. During the three months ended September 30, 2013, we incurred a $0.8 million credit in termination benefits to affected employees due to the further refinement of estimates which were previously accrued and a $0.3 million charge in lease exit costs. During the six months ended September 30, 2013, restructuring changes under this plan included $1.2 million in termination benefits to affected employees and $0.6 million in lease exit costs. We estimate completing this restructuring plan during fiscal year 2014. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan solely affecting our video conferencing operating segment to align its organization to its strategic priorities of increasing focus on a tighter range of products, expanding cloud-based video conferencing services and improving profitability. Restructuring charges under this plan primarily consist of severance and other one-time termination benefits. Charges and other costs related to the workforce reduction are presented as restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of operations. During the three months ended September 30, 2013, restructuring charges under this plan included $5.4 million in termination benefits to affected employees and $0.6 million in lease exit costs. We estimate completing this restructuring plan during fiscal year 2014. 51 Table of Contents The following table summarizes restructuring-related activities (in thousands): Total Termination Benefits Lease Exit Costs Other Balance at March 31, 2012 $ $ $ $ Charges 31,227 28,655 1,472 1,100 Cash payments (5,195 ) (4,766 ) (429 ) Foreign exchange 63 63 Balance at June 30, 2012 26,095 23,952 1,472 671 Charges (credits) (2,671 ) (3,816 ) 48 1,097 Cash payments (17,652 ) (16,642 ) (52 ) (958 ) Foreign exchange 14 14 Balance at September 30, 2012 $ 5,786 $ 3,494 $ 1,468 $ 824 Charges (credits) (358 ) (188 ) (182 ) 12 Cash payments (4,511 ) (2,633 ) (1,104 ) (774 ) Foreign exchange Balance at December 30, 2012 917 673 182 62 Charges (credits) 15,507 16,437 (30 ) (900 ) Cash payments (2,966 ) (3,727 ) (77 ) 838 Foreign exchange Balance at March 31, 2013 13,458 13,383 75 Charges 2,334 2,004 330 Cash payments (8,422 ) (8,422 ) Foreign exchange (170 ) (170 ) Balance at June 30, 2013 7,200 6,795 405 Charges 5,465 4,562 (1) 903 (1) Cash payments (7,099 ) (6,535 ) (564 ) Foreign exchange Balance at September 30, 2013 $ 5,566 $ 4,822 $ 744 $ (1) During the three months ended September 30, 2013, we incurred $4.6 million in termination benefits, $5.4 million charge related to the restructuring plan initiated during the second quarter of fiscal year 2014 offset by a $0.8 million credit related to the restructuring plan initiated during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. During the same period, we also incurred $0.9 million in lease exit costs, $0.6 million related to the restructuring plan initiated during the second quarter of fiscal year 2014 and $0.3 million related to the restructuring plan initiated during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. 52 Table of Contents Interest Income, net Interest income, net for the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended September 30, Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 Change 2013 2012 Change Interest income $ 496 $ 495 0 % $ 918 $ 1,227 (25 )% Interest expense (313 ) (342 ) (8 )% (758 ) (690 ) 10 % Interest income, net $ 183 $ 153 20 % $ 160 $ 537 (70 )% Interest income remained constant in the three months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the three months ended September 30, 2012. Interest income was lower in the six months ended September 30, 2013, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2012, primarily due to lower invested balances resulting from the $133.5 million cash dividend payment made on September 18, 2012 and from the $87.8 million paid to repurchase 8.6 million shares under our amended September 2008 buyback program. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) for the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended September 30, Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 Change 2013 2012 Change Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) (77 ) (937 ) 92 % 413 (1,608 ) 126 % Investment income (loss) related to deferred compensation plan (121 ) 510 124 % 243 99 (145 )% Gain on sale of investments (100 )% 831 (100 )% Other, net 260 (82 ) (417 )% (377 ) 10 (3870 )% Other income (expense) $ 62 $ (509 ) 112 % $ 279 $ (668 ) 142 % Foreign currency exchange gains or losses relate to balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a particular subsidiary, to the sale of currencies, and to gains or losses recognized on foreign exchange forward contracts. We do not speculate in currency positions, but we are alert to opportunities to maximize foreign exchange gains. Investment income (loss) for three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 represents earnings, gains, and losses on trading investments related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries. During the six months ended September 30, 2012, we sold the remaining two of our available-for-sale securities for $0.9 million. This sale resulted in $0.8 million of gain recognized in other income (expense), $0.3 million of which resulted from the recognition of a temporary increase in fair value previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Three Months ended September 30, Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Benefit from income taxes $ 3,057 $ (31,076 ) $ 2,255 $ (37,986 ) Effective income tax rate 17.5 % (132.4 )% 12.7 % 109.8 % The provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists of income and withholding taxes. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and our profits are taxed pursuant to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate may be affected by changes in or interpretations of tax laws and tax agreements in any given jurisdiction, utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in geographical mix of income and expense, and changes in managements assessment of matters such as the ability to realize deferred tax assets. 53 Table of Contents The change in the effective income tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2013 compared with the same periods in fiscal year 2013 is primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, and the treatment of restructuring expenses as a discrete event in determining the annual effective tax rate in fiscal year 2013. In addition, there was a discrete tax benefit of $32.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2012 from the reversal of uncertain tax positions resulting from the closure of federal income tax examinations in the United States. In fiscal year 2013, we incurred $43.7 million of restructuring charges and related expenses to simplify the organization and to align the organization to its strategic priorities, $28.6 million of such charges were incurred through the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 with the remaining balance primarily incurred in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. In the three and six months ended September 30, 2013, we incurred restructuring-related termination benefits and lease exit costs in the amount of $5.5 million and $7.8 million, respectively. In determining the estimated fiscal 2014 annual effective tax rate, the restructuring activities were not treated as a discrete event as the charges were not significantly unusual and infrequent in nature, unlike those that were incurred in fiscal year 2013. The tax benefit associated with the restructuring in the six months ended September 30, 2013 was not material. As of September 30 and March 31, 2013, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties due to uncertain tax positions was $103.5 million and $102.0 million, of which $90.8 million and $90.3 million would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized. We classified the unrecognized tax benefits as non-current income taxes payable. We continue to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions in income tax expense. As of September 30 and March 31, 2013, we had approximately $6.9 million and $6.6 million of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, we are generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to fiscal year 2001. We are under examination and have received assessment notices in foreign tax jurisdictions. At this time, we are able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Although we have adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate changes in the unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Balances, Available Borrowings, and Capital Resources At September 30, 2013, our working capital was $389.5 million, compared with $381.6 million at March 31, 2013. The increase in working capital over the prior year was primarily due to higher receivable and inventory balances, offset in part by a $36.1 million cash dividend payment. This dividend was approved on September 4, 2013 by our shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and paid in September 2013. During the six months ended September 30, 2013, we generated $14.2 million from operating activities. Our main sources of operating cash flows were net income after adding non-cash expenses of depreciation, amortization, and share-based compensation expense, and from an increase in accounts payable and accrued and other liabilities. These sources of operating cash flows were offset in part by a increase in accounts receivable and inventories. Net cash used in investing activities was $23.3 million, 54 Table of Contents primarily from $23.1 million of investments in leasehold improvements, computer hardware and software, tooling and equipment and from a $0.7 million investment in a privately-held company. Net cash used by financing activities was $30.4 million, primarily from the $36.1 million cash dividend, offset in part by $6.1 million in proceeds received from sale of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights. At September 30, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $294.8 million. Our cash and cash equivalents are comprised of bank demand deposits and short-term time deposits carried at cost, which is equivalent to fair value. Approximately 58% of our cash and cash equivalents are held by our Swiss-based entities, and approximately 27% is held by our subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China. We do not expect to incur any material adverse tax impact or be significantly inhibited by any country in which we do business from the repatriation of funds to Switzerland, our home domicile. In December 2011, we entered into a Senior Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a group of primarily Swiss banks that provides for a revolving multicurrency unsecured credit facility in an amount of up to $250.0 million. We may, upon notice to the lenders and subject to certain requirements, arrange with existing or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $150.0 million in additional commitments, for a total of $400.0 million of unsecured revolving credit. The credit facility may be used for working capital, general corporate purposes, and acquisitions. There were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility at September 30, 2013. The credit facility matures on October 31, 2016. We may prepay the loans under the credit facility in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Borrowings under the credit facility will accrue interest at a per annum rate based on LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), or EURIBOR (Euro Interbank Offered Rate) in the case of loans denominated in euros, plus a variable margin determined quarterly based on the ratio of senior debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the preceding four-quarter period, plus, if applicable, an additional rate per annum intended to compensate the lenders for the cost of compliance with regulatory reserve requirements and other banking regulations. We also pay a quarterly commitment fee of 40% of the applicable margin on the available commitment. In connection with entering into the credit facility, we incurred non-recurring fees totaling $1.5 million, which are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the credit facility. The facility agreement contains representations and covenants, including threshold financial covenants, and events of default customary in Swiss credit markets. Affirmative covenants include covenants regarding reporting requirements, maintenance of insurance, maintenance of properties and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and financial covenants that require the maintenance of net senior debt, interest cover and adjusted equity ratios determined in accordance with the terms of the facility. Negative covenants limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries, among other things, to grant liens, make investments, incur debt, make restricted payments, enter into a merger or acquisition, or sell, transfer or dispose of assets, in each case subject to certain exceptions. As of March 31, 2013, we were not in compliance with the interest coverage ratio of the credit facility. This situation resulted from the significant operating loss incurred during fiscal year 2013. On June 13, 2013, we amended the credit facility to amend the definitions of (a) EBITDA to exclude the effect of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and (b) interest coverage ratio calculation to utilize EBITDA rather than EBIT. As of September 30, 2013, we were not in compliance with the adjusted equity ratio of this facility. The facility continues to be available for our use based on a temporary waiver of the adjusted equity ratio covenant through the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2014. This facility stipulates that, upon an uncured event of default under the facility, the lenders may declare all or a portion of the outstanding obligations payable by us to be immediately due and payable, terminate their commitments and exercise other rights and remedies provided for under the facility. The events of default under the facility include, among other things, payment defaults, covenant defaults, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events and events that have a material adverse effect (as defined in the facility). Upon a change of control of the Company, lenders whose commitments aggregate more than two-thirds of the total commitments under the facility may terminate the commitments and declare all outstanding obligations to be due and payable. 55 Table of Contents We have credit lines with several European and Asian banks totaling $62 million as of September 30, 2013. As is common for businesses in European and Asian countries, these credit lines are uncommitted and unsecured. Despite the lack of formal commitments from the banks, we believe that these lines of credit will continue to be made available because of our long-standing relationships with these banks and our current financial condition. At September 30, 2013, there were no outstanding borrowings under these lines of credit. There are no financial covenants or cross default provisions under these facilities. We also have credit lines related to corporate credit cards totaling $17.4 million as of September 30, 2013. The outstanding borrowings under these credit lines are recorded in other current liabilities. There are no financial covenants or cross default provisions under these credit lines. We have financed our operating and capital requirements primarily through cash flow from operations and, to a lesser extent, from capital markets and bank borrowings. Our normal liquidity for the next 12 months and our longer-term capital resource requirements are provided from three sources: cash flow generated from operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and borrowings, as needed, under our credit facilities. We believe that, based on the trend of our historical cash flow generation, our projections of future operations and reduced expenses, our available cash balances and credit lines will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operation for at least the next 12 months. Cash Flow from Operating Activities The following table presents selected financial information and statistics as of September 30, 2013 and 2012 (dollars in thousands): September 30, 2013 2012 As Revised Accounts receivable, net $ 258,858 $ 284,451 Inventories 292,777 321,307 Working capital 389,504 345,071 Days sales in accounts receivable (DSO) (1) 44 days 47 days Inventory turnover (ITO) (2) 4.8x 4.4x Net cash provided by operating activities $ 14,186 $ 9,247 (1) DSO is determined using ending accounts receivable as of the most recent quarter-end and net sales for the most recent quarter. (2) ITO is determined using ending inventories and annualized cost of goods sold (based on the most recent quarterly cost of goods sold). During the six months ended September 30, 2013, operating activities provided net cash of $14.2 million, compared with net cash provided by operating activities of $9.2 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year. The primary drivers of the increase in net cash provided by operating cash flows include increase in net income, from $3.4 million in the six months ended September 30, 2012 to $15.4 million in the six months ended September 30, 2013, and from a $39.6 million increase in accounts payable and a $26.1 million increase in accrued and other liabilities. These increases of operating cash flows were offset in part by a $77.0 million increase in accounts receivable and a $21.4 million increase in inventories during this period. DSO improved by three days between the three months ended September 30, 2013 and the three months ended September 30, 2012, primarily due to lower accounts receivable balances resulting from increased cash collection. Typical payment terms require customers to pay for product sales generally within 30 to 60 days. However, terms may vary by customer type, by country and by selling season. 56 Table of Contents Extended payment terms are sometimes offered to a limited number of customers during the second and third fiscal quarters. We do not modify payment terms on existing receivables, but may offer discounts for early payment. Inventory turnover between the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 increased primarily due to lower inventory level as of September 31, 2013, compared to the inventory level as of September 30, 2012. Cash Flow from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities during the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in thousands): Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 As Revised Purchases of property, plant and equipment $ (23,063 ) $ (32,817 ) Acquisition of a privately-held company (650 ) (3,970 ) Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale securities 917 Purchases of trading investments (6,146 ) (1,648 ) Proceeds from sale of trading investments 6,602 1,638 Net cash used in investing activities $ (23,257 ) $ (35,880 ) Our expenditures for property, plant and equipment during the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 were principally normal expenditures for leasehold improvements, computer hardware and software, tooling and equipment. During the six months ended September 30, 2013, purchases of property, plant and equipment decreased, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2012, primarily due to leasehold improvements related to our new Silicon Valley campus during the three months ended June 30, 2012. During the six months ended September 30, 2013, we invested $0.7 million to acquire a privately-held company. During the six months ended September 30, 2012, we sold our two remaining available-for-sale securities for $0.9 million. The purchases and sales of trading investments in the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 represent mutual fund activity directed by participants in a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries. The mutual funds are held by a Rabbi Trust. Cash Flow from Financing Activities The following table presents information on our cash flows from financing activities during the six months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): Six Months ended September 30, 2013 2012 As Revised Cash dividend payment $ (36,123 ) $ (133,462 ) Purchase of treasury shares (87,812 ) Proceeds from sale of shares upon exercise of options and purchase rights 6,135 9,008 Tax withholdings related to net share settlements of RSUs (453 ) (635 ) Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 22 Net cash used in financing activities $ (30,441 ) $ (212,879 ) 57 Table of Contents During the six months ended September 30, 2012, we repurchased 8.6 million shares for $87.8 million under the Companys amended September 2008 buyback program, compared with the six months ended September 30, 2013, during which no share repurchases were made. The amounts of the repurchases include transaction costs incurred as part of the repurchase. Cash Outlook Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow generated from operations and, to a lesser extent, capital markets and borrowings. Our future working capital requirements and capital expenditures may increase to support investment in product innovations and growth opportunities, or to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies. In December 2011, we entered into a Senior Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a group of primarily Swiss banks that provides for a revolving multicurrency unsecured credit facility in an amount of up to $250.0 million. We may, upon notice to the lenders and subject to certain requirements, arrange with existing or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $150.0 million in additional commitments, for a total of $400.0 million of unsecured revolving credit. The credit facility may be used for working capital, general corporate purposes, and acquisitions. The credit facility matures on October 31, 2016. We may prepay the loans under the credit facility in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. The facility agreement contains representations, covenants, including threshold financial covenants, and events of default customary in Swiss credit markets. There were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility at September 30, 2013. As of September 30, 2013, we were not in compliance with the adjusted equity ratio of this facility. The facility continues to be available for our use based on a temporary waiver of the adjusted equity ratio covenant through the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2014. In September 2008, our Board of Directors approved a share buyback program, which authorizes the Company to invest up to $250.0 million to purchase its own shares. In November 2011, we received approval from the Swiss regulatory authorities for an amendment to the September 2008 share buyback program to enable future repurchases of shares for cancellation. In fiscal year 2012, we repurchased 17.5 million shares for $156.0 million under the September 2008 program. Under the amended September 2008 program, we repurchased 8.6 million shares for $87.8 million during fiscal year 2013. On September 5, 2012, our shareholders approved the cancellation of 18.5 million shares repurchased under the September 2008 amended share buyback program. These shares were legally cancelled during the third quarter of fiscal year 2013. In August 2013, we announced that the $250.0 million share buyback program expired. Our shareholders approved a distribution of a gross dividend of CHF 0.21 per share (US dollar amount of $0.22 per share based on the exchange rate at September 13, 2013), or an aggregate amount of approximately CHF 33.7 million (U.S. dollar amount of $36.1 million based on the exchange rate at September 13, 2013). The dividend payment was made in September 2013. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, we are generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to fiscal year 2001. We are under examination and have received assessment notices in foreign tax jurisdictions. At this time, we are not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Although we have adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is not possible at this time to reasonably changes in the unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we implemented a restructuring plan to reduce operating costs and improve financial results. We substantially completed this restructuring plan during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013, we implemented an additional restructuring plan to realign our organization to increase our focus on mobility products, improve profitability in PC-related products and enhance our global operational efficiencies. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan solely affecting our video conferencing reporting segment to align its organization to it strategic priorities of increasing focus on a tighter range of products, expanding cloud-based video conferencing services and improving profitability. 58 Table of Contents Our other contractual obligations and commitments that require cash are described in the following sections. For over ten years, we have generated positive cash flows from our operating activities, including cash from operations of $117.1 million in fiscal year 2013. During fiscal year 2013, our normal level of cash and cash equivalents was significantly reduced by the cash dividend payment of CHF 125.7 million (U.S. dollar amount of $133.5 million at the time it was paid) out of retained earnings, and by the $87.8 million in share repurchases during this period. During fiscal year 2014, our cash and cash equivalents was further reduced by the cash dividend payment of CHF 33.7 million (U.S. dollar amount of $36.1 million at the time it was paid) out of retained earnings. If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to support our operations and future planned cash requirements, our operations could be harmed and our access to credit facilities could be restricted or eliminated. However, we believe that the trend of our historical cash flow generation, our projections of future operations and reduced expenses, our available cash balances and credit lines will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. Although we believe that we can meet our liquidity needs, if we fail to meet our operating forecast or market conditions negatively affect our cash flows or ability to fund growth opportunities, we may be required to seek additional funding. If we seek additional funding, adequate funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plans and it could have a negative effect on our business, operating cash flows and financial condition. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of September 30, 2013, our outstanding contractual obligations and commitments included: (i) facilities leased under operating lease commitments, (ii) purchase commitments and obligations, (iii) long-term liabilities for income taxes payable, and (iv)defined benefit pension plan and non-retirement post-employment benefit obligations. The following summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments at September 30, 2013 (in thousands): September 30, 2013 Operating leases $ 84,640 Purchase commitments - inventory 132,782 Purchase obligations - capital expenditures 18,372 Purchase obligations - operating expenses 63,426 Income taxes payable - non-current 100,310 Obligation for deferred compensation 15,435 Pension and post-employment obligations 40,728 Other long-term liabilities 11,070 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 466,763 59 Table of Contents Operating Leases We lease facilities under operating leases, certain of which require it to pay property taxes, insurance and maintenance costs. Operating leases for facilities are generally renewable at our option and usually include escalation clauses linked to inflation. The remaining terms on our non-cancelable operating leases expire in various years through 2028. Our asset retirement obligations on these leases as of September 30, 2013 were $1.2 million. Purchase Commitments At September 30, 2013, we have fixed purchase commitments of $132.8 million for inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and other suppliers, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled by December 2013. We also had commitments of $63.4 million for consulting services, marketing arrangements, advertising, outsourced customer services, information technology maintenance and support services, and other services. Fixed purchase commitments for capital expenditures amounted to $18.4 million at September 30, 2013, and primarily relate to commitments for computer hardware and leasehold improvements. We expect to continue making capital expenditures in the future to support product development activities and ongoing and expanded operations. Although open purchase commitments are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to reschedule and adjust our requirements based on business needs prior to delivery of goods or performance of services. Income Taxes Payable At September 30, 2013, we had $100.3 million in non-current income taxes payable, including interest and penalties, related to our income tax liability for recognized uncertain tax positions, compared with $98.8 million in non-current taxes payable as of March 31, 2013. We file Swiss and foreign tax returns. For all these tax returns, we are generally not subject to tax examinations for years prior to fiscal year 2001. We are under examination and have received assessment notices in foreign tax jurisdictions. At this time, we are not able to estimate the potential impact that these examinations may have on income tax expense. If the examinations are resolved unfavorably, there is a possibility they may have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Although we have adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. It is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate the changes of the unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months. Obligation for Deferred Compensation At September 30, 2013, we had $15.4 million in liabilities related to a deferred compensation plan offered by one of our subsidiaries. For more information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Pension and Post-Employment Obligations At September 30, 2013, we had $42.3 million in liabilities related to our defined benefit pension plans and non-retirement post-employment benefit obligations, of which $1.6 million is payable in the next 12 months. For more information, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments For further detail about our contractual obligations and commitments, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. 60 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to us. Guarantees Logitech International S.A., the parent holding company, has guaranteed payment of the purchase obligations of various subsidiaries from certain component suppliers. These guarantees generally have an unlimited term. The maximum potential future payment under the guarantee arrangements is limited to $30 million. At September 30, 2013, there were no purchase obligations outstanding for which the parent holding company was required to guarantee payment. Logitech Europe S.A., a subsidiary of the parent holding company, has guaranteed the purchase obligations of another Logitech subsidiary under two guarantee agreements. One of these guarantees does not specify a maximum amount. The remaining guarantee has a total limit of $7.0 million. As of September 30, 2013, an immaterial amount of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding under these guarantees. Logitech Europe S.A. has also guaranteed payment of the purchase obligations of a third-party contract manufacturer under one guarantee agreement. The maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.5 million as of September 30, 2013. As of September 30, 2013, $2.8 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding under this agreement. Logitech International S.A. and Logitech Europe S.A. have guaranteed certain contingent liabilities of various subsidiaries related to transactions occurring in the normal course of business. The maximum amount of the guarantees was $35.0 million as of September 30, 2013. As of September 30, 2013, $5.6 million of guaranteed obligations were outstanding under these agreements. Indemnifications Logitech indemnifies certain of its suppliers and customers for losses arising from matters such as intellectual property disputes and product safety defects, subject to certain restrictions. The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys fees. No amounts have been accrued for indemnification provisions at September 30, 2013. We do not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under our indemnification arrangements. Logitech also indemnifies its current and former directors and certain of its current and former officers. Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies. Logitech is unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not capped, the obligations are conditional in nature, and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable. Legal Proceedings From time to time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of its business. We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings. We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that resolution of pending matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that our defenses will be successful or that any such lawsuit or claim would not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in a particular period. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, can have an adverse impact because of defense costs, diversion of management and operational resources, negative publicity and other factors. Any failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims, could adversely affect our business. 61 Table of Contents