ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) references in this report to "Lumen Technologies" or "Lumen," "we," "us" and "our" refer to Lumen Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and (ii) references in this report to "Level 3" refer to Level 3 Parent, LLC and its predecessor Level 3 Communications, Inc., which we acquired on November 1, 2017. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 of Part I refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" appearing at the beginning of this report and "Risk Factors" referenced in Item 1A of Part II of this report or other of our filings with the SEC for a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our anticipated results or otherwise impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The results of operations and cash flows for the first three months of the year are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations and cash flows that might be expected for the entire year. We are an international facilities-based technology and communications company focused on providing our business and mass markets customers with a broad array of integrated services and solutions necessary to fully participate in our rapidly evolving digital world. We believe we are the world's most inter-connected network and our platform empowers our customers to rapidly adjust digital programs to meet immediate demands, create efficiencies, accelerate market access, and reduce costs - allowing customers to rapidly evolve their IT programs to address dynamic changes without distraction from their core competencies. With approximately 450,000 route miles of fiber optic cable globally, we are among the largest providers of communications services to domestic and global enterprise customers. Our terrestrial and subsea fiber optic long-haul network throughout North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific connects to metropolitan fiber networks that we operate. We provide services in over 60 countries, with most of our revenue being derived in the United States. As of March 31, 2021, we had approximately 38,000 employees. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic In response to the safety and economic challenges arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and in a continued attempt to mitigate the negative impact on our stakeholders, we have taken a variety of steps to ensure the availability of our network infrastructure, to promote the safety of our employees and customers, to enable us to continue to adapt and provide our products and services worldwide to our customers, and to strengthen our communities. In addition to other actions described in our other reports, these steps include: establishing protocols for the safety of our on-site technicians and customers, including our "Safe Connections" program; adopting a rigorous employee work-from-home policy and substantially restricting non-essential business travel; continuously monitoring our network to enhance its ability to respond to changes in usage patterns; donating products or services in several of our communities to enhance their abilities to provide necessary support services; and taking steps to maintain our internal controls and the security of our systems and data in a remote work environment. 33 Table of Contents As the pandemic continues and vaccination rates increase, we expect to revise our responses or take additional steps to adjust to changed circumstances. Social distancing, business and school closures, travel restrictions, and other actions taken in response to the pandemic have impacted us, our customers and our business since March 2020. In particular, as discussed further elsewhere herein, we have tracked pandemic impacts, including: (i) increases in certain revenue streams and decreases in others (including late fee revenue), (ii) increases in allowances for credit losses through the end of 2020, (iii) increases in overtime expenses, (iv) delays in our cost transformation initiatives and (v) an acceleration of our real estate rationalization efforts and the incurrence of related costs. Thus far, these changes have not materially impacted our financial performance or financial position, and, barring any unforeseen changes in conditions, we do not expect these changes to materially impact us during 2021. The impact of the pandemic during 2021 will materially depend on additional steps that we may take in response to the pandemic and various events outside of our control, including the pace of vaccinations worldwide, the length and severity of the health crisis and economic slowdown, actions taken by central banks, governmental agencies or legislative bodies, and the impact of those events on our employees, suppliers and customers. For additional information, see the risk factor disclosures referenced in Item 1A of Part II of this report. For additional information on the impacts of the pandemic, see the remainder of this item, including "Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview of Sources and Uses of Cash," and " Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations." Reporting Segments As previously announced, we completed an internal reorganization of our reporting segments in January 2021. Our reporting segments are currently organized as follows, by customer focus: Business Segment: Under our Business segment, we provide our products and services under four sales channels: International and Global Accounts (" IGAM "): Our IGAM sales channel includes multinational and enterprise customers. We provide our products and services to approximately 350 of our highest potential enterprise customers and to enterprises and carriers in three operating regions: Europe Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific. Large Enterprise: Under our large enterprise sales channel, we provide our products and services to large enterprises and the public sector, including the U.S. Federal government, state and local governments and research and education institutions. Mid-Market Enterprise: Under our mid-market enterprise sales channel, we provide our products and services to medium-sized enterprises directly and through our indirect channel partners. Wholesale: Under our wholesale sales channel, we provide our products and services to a wide range of other communication providers across the wireline, wireless, cable, voice and data center sectors. Mass Markets Segment: Under our Mass Markets segment, we provide products and services to consumer and small business customers. At March 31, 2021, we served 4.7 million broadband subscribers under our Mass Markets segment. See Note 11Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information. We categorize our Business segment revenue among the following four products and services categories: Compute and Application Services , which include our Edge Cloud services, IT solutions, Unified Communications and Collaboration ("UC&C"), data center, content delivery network ("CDN") and Managed Security services; 34 Table of Contents IP and Data Services , which includes Ethernet, IP, and VPN data networks, including software-defined wide area networks ("SD WAN") based services, Dynamic Connections and Hyper WAN; Fiber Infrastructure Services , which includes dark fiber, optical services and equipment; and Voice and Other , which includes Time Division Multiplexing ("TDM") voice, private line and other legacy services. Under our Mass Markets segment, we provide the following products and services: Consumer Broadband , which includes high speed fiber-based and lower speed DSL-based broadband services to residential customers; SBG Broadband , which includes high speed fiber-based and lower speed DSL-based broadband services to small businesses; Voice and Other , which include local and long-distance services, retail video services (including our linear TV services), state support and other ancillary services; and CAF II , which consists of Connect America Fund II support payments designed to reimburse us for various costs related to certain telecommunications services. Trends Impacting Our Operations In addition to the above-described impact of the pandemic, our consolidated operations have been, and are expected to continue to be, impacted by the following company-wide trends: Customers demand for automated products and services and competitive pressures will require that we continue to invest in new technologies and automated processes to improve the customer experience and reduce our operating expenses. The increasingly digital environment and the growth in online video require robust, scalable network services. We are continuing to enhance our product capabilities and simplify our product portfolio based on demand and profitability to enable customers to have access to greater bandwidth. Businesses continue to adopt distributed, global operating models. We are expanding and enhancing our fiber network, connecting more buildings to our network to generate revenue opportunities and reducing our reliance upon other carriers. Industry consolidation, coupled with changes in regulation, technology and customer preferences, are significantly reducing demand for our traditional voice services and are pressuring some other revenue streams through volume or rate reductions, while other advances, such as the need for lower latency provided by Edge computing or the implementation of 5G networks, are expected to create opportunities. The operating margins of several of our newer, more technologically advanced services, some of which may connect to customers through other carriers, are lower than the operating margins on our traditional, on-net wireline services. Declines in our traditional wireline services have necessitated right-sizing our cost structures to remain competitive. Additional trends impacting our segments are discussed elsewhere in this Item 2. Results of Operations In this section, we discuss our overall results of operations and highlight special items that are not included in our segment results. In "Segment Results of Operations" we review the performance of our two reporting segments in more detail. 35 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenue $ 5,029 5,228 Operating expenses 4,042 4,248 Operating income 987 980 Total other expense, net (355) (547) Income before income taxes 632 433 Income tax expense 157 119 Net income $ 475 314 Basic earnings per common share $ 0.44 0.29 Diluted earnings per common share $ 0.44 0.29 For years, we have experienced revenue declines, excluding the impact of acquisitions, primarily due to declines in voice and private line customers, switched access rates and minutes of use. More recently, we have experienced declines in revenue derived from the sale of certain of our other products and services. To partially mitigate these revenue declines, we remain focused on efforts to, among other things: promote long-term relationships with our customers through bundling of integrated services; increase the size, capacity, speed and usage of our networks; provide a wide array of diverse services, including enhanced or additional services that may become available in the future due to, among other things, advances in technology or improvements in our infrastructure; provide our premium services to a higher percentage of our customers; pursue acquisitions of additional assets or divestitures of non-strategic assets, in each case if available at attractive prices; increase prices on our products and services if and when practicable; and market our products and services to new customers. Consolidated Revenue The following table summarizes our consolidated operating revenue recorded under each of our two segments and in our four above-described revenue sales channels within the Business segment: 36 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Business Segment: International & Global Accounts $ 1,013 1,041 (3) % Large Enterprise 937 966 (3) % Mid-Market Enterprise 716 761 (6) % Wholesale 929 969 (4) % Business Segment Revenue 3,595 3,737 (4) % Mass Markets Segment Revenue 1,434 1,491 (4) % Total operating revenue $ 5,029 5,228 (4) % Our total operating revenue decreased by $199 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily due to revenue declines in all of our above-listed revenue categories. See our segment results below for additional information. Operating Expenses The following tables summarize our consolidated operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 2,136 2,235 (4) % Selling, general and administrative 756 853 (11) % Depreciation and amortization 1,150 1,160 (1) % Total operating expenses $ 4,042 4,248 (5) % Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) decreased by $99 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily due to reductions in salaries and wages and employee-related expense from lower headcount and lower facility costs partially offset by higher network expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $97 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. This decrease was primarily due to reductions in salaries and wages and employee-related expense from lower headcount, lower bad debt expense, and lower marketing costs. 37 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization The following tables provide detail of our depreciation and amortization expense: Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Depreciation $ 725 729 (1) % Amortization 425 431 (1) % Total depreciation and amortization $ 1,150 1,160 (1) % Depreciation expense decreased by $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily due to the impact of annual rate depreciable life changes of $38 million, which was partially offset by $31 million of higher depreciation expense associated with net growth in depreciable assets. Amortization expense decreased by $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily driven by decreases of $17 million from the use of accelerated amortization methods for a portion of the customer intangibles and $2 million from the impact of annual rate amortizable life changes on certain software, which were partially offset by $7 million additional amortization expense recognized as a result of reclassification of certain right-of-way assets, as discussed in Note 2Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The decrease in amortization expense was additionally offset by accelerated amortization for decommissioned applications of $4 million. Further analysis of our segment operating expenses by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Goodwill Impairments We are required to perform impairment tests related to our goodwill annually, which we perform as of October 31, or sooner if an indicator of impairment occurs. The January 2021 completion of our previously announced internal reorganization was considered a change in event or circumstance which required an assessment of our goodwill for impairment. We performed a qualitative impairment assessment and concluded it is more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units exceeds the carrying value of equity of our reporting units at January 31, 2021. Therefore, no impairment exists as of our assessment date. See Note 2Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets for further details on these tests and impairment charges. Other Consolidated Results The following tables summarize our total other expense, net and income tax expense: Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (389) (449) (13) % Other income (expense), net 34 (98) nm Total other expense, net $ (355) (547) (35) % Income tax expense $ 157 119 32 % _______________________________________________________________________ nm Percentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. 38 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $60 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease in average long-term debt from $34.7 billion to $31.6 billion and the decrease in the average interest rate of 5.34% to 4.88% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net reflects certain items not directly related to our core operations, including (i) gains and losses on extinguishments of debt, (ii) components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, (iii) foreign currency gains and losses, and (iv) our share of income from partnerships we do not control, interest income, gains and losses from non-operating asset dispositions and other non-core items. Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt $ 8 (79) nm Pension and postretirement net periodic income (expense) 24 (4) nm Foreign currency loss (16) (20) (20) % Other 18 5 nm Total other income (expense), net $ 34 (98) nm _______________________________________________________________________________ nm Percentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. The significant change in pension and post retirement net periodic expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 was driven by a decline in interest cost due to lower discount rates. Income Tax Expense For the three months ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020, our effective income tax rate was 24.8% and 27.5%, respectively. 39 Table of Contents Segment Results General Reconciliation of segment revenue to total operating revenue is below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Operating revenue Business $ 3,595 3,737 Mass Markets 1,434 1,491 Total operating revenue $ 5,029 5,228 Reconciliation of segment EBITDA to total adjusted EBITDA is below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Adjusted EBITDA Business $ 2,408 2,488 Mass Markets 1,258 1,302 Total segment EBITDA 3,666 3,790 Operations and Other EBITDA (1,509) (1,581) Total adjusted EBITDA $ 2,157 2,209 For additional information on our reportable segments and product and services categories, see Note 3Revenue Recognition and Note 11Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Business Segment Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Business Segment Product Categories: Compute and Application Services $ 428 435 (2) % IP and Data Services 1,580 1,622 (3) % Fiber Infrastructure Services 554 547 1 % Voice and Other 1,033 1,133 (9) % Total Business Segment Revenue 3,595 3,737 (4) % Expenses: Total expense 1,187 1,249 (5) % Total adjusted EBITDA $ 2,408 2,488 (3) % Segment revenue decreased $142 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to the following factors: 40 Table of Contents Compute and Application Services declined primarily due to declines in Cloud Services within Large Enterprise and IGAM sales channels, lower rates for CDN and a large customer disconnect for IT Solutions within the IGAM sales channel, partially offset by growth in Managed Security and IT Solutions within the Large Enterprise sales channel; IP and Data Services declined due to lengthening sales cycles in the current environment for hybrid networks and SD-WAN, declines in traditional VPN networks in the Enterprise and IGAM sales channels and continued declines in Ethernet sales, partially offset by an increase in IP services; Fiber Infrastructure Services grew due to growth in dark fiber and wavelengths demand, primarily from our large IGAM customers, which was partially offset by lower equipment revenue in the Large Enterprise sales channel; Voice and Other decreased due to continued decline of legacy voice, private line and other services to customers across all sales channels. Segment expense decreased $62 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to lower employee-related costs from lower headcount and lower cost of sales. Segment adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue was 67% for both the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020. Mass Markets Segment Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Mass Markets Product Categories: Consumer Broadband $ 731 722 1 % SBG Broadband 39 39 % Voice and Other 541 607 (11) % CAF II 123 123 % Total Mass Markets Segment Revenue 1,434 1,491 (4) % Expenses: Total expense 176 189 (7) % Total adjusted EBITDA $ 1,258 1,302 (3) % Segment revenue decreased $57 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020: Consumer Broadband revenue increases were driven by demand for higher-speed services and higher rates; and Voice and Other declined due to continued legacy voice customer losses and our de-emphasis of the Prism video product. Segment expense decreased $13 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to lower employee-related costs from lower headcount and lower cost of sales driven by the decrease in Prism content costs. Segment adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue was 88% and 87% for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 41 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview of Sources and Uses of Cash We are a holding company that is dependent on the capital resources of our subsidiaries to satisfy our parent company liquidity requirements. Several of our significant operating subsidiaries have borrowed funds either on a standalone basis or as part of a separate restricted group with certain of its subsidiaries or affiliates. The terms of the instruments governing the indebtedness of these borrowers or borrowing groups may restrict our ability to access their accumulated cash. In addition, our ability to access the liquidity of these and other subsidiaries may be limited by tax, legal and other considerations. At March 31, 2021, we held cash and cash equivalents of $486 million, and we also had $2.2 billion of borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility. We typically use our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity for operating activities and our other cash requirements. We had approximately $119 million of cash and cash equivalents outside the United States at March 31, 2021. We currently believe that there are no material restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash and cash equivalents into the United States, and that we may do so without paying or accruing U.S. taxes. We do not currently intend to repatriate to the United States any of our foreign cash and cash equivalents from operating entities outside of Latin America. Our executive officers and our Board of Directors periodically review our sources and potential uses of cash in connection with our annual budgeting process. Generally speaking, our principal funding source is cash from operating activities, and our principal cash requirements include operating expenses, capital expenditures, income taxes, debt repayments, dividends, periodic securities repurchases, periodic pension contributions and other benefits payments. Based on our current capital allocation objectives, for the full year 2021 we project approximately $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion of capital expenditures and approximately $1.1 billion of cash dividends on our common stock (based on the assumptions described below under "Dividends"). For the 12 month period ending March 31, 2022, we project that our fixed commitments will include (i) $125 million of scheduled term loan amortization payments, (ii) $42 million of finance lease and other fixed payments and (iii) $3.7 billion of debt maturities. For additional information, see "Risk FactorsFinancial Risks" in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to expand and improve our service offerings, enhance and modernize our networks and compete effectively in our markets. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted impact on revenue growth, productivity, expenses, service levels and customer retention) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, current and projected demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations (such as our CAF Phase II or Rural Digital Opportunity Fund ("RDOF") infrastructure buildout requirements). Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on enhancing network operating efficiencies and supporting new service developments. For more information on our capital spending, see (i) "Overview of Sources and Uses of Cash" above, (ii) "Historical InformationInvesting Activities" below and (iii) Item 1 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Debt and Other Financing Arrangements Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to issue debt securities from time to time in the future to refinance a substantial portion of our maturing debt, including issuing debt securities of certain of our subsidiaries to refinance their maturing debt to the extent feasible. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned by credit rating agencies, among other factors. 42 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2021, the credit ratings for the senior secured and unsecured debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc., Level 3 Financing, Inc. and Qwest Corporation were as follows: Borrower Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Standard & Poor's Fitch Ratings Lumen Technologies, Inc.: Unsecured B2 BB- BB Secured Ba3 BBB- BB+ Level 3 Financing, Inc. Unsecured Ba3 BB BB Secured Ba1 BBB- BBB- Qwest Corporation: Unsecured Ba2 BBB- BB+ Our credit ratings are reviewed and adjusted from time to time by the rating agencies. Any future downgrades of the senior unsecured or secured debt ratings of us or our subsidiaries could impact our access to capital or further raise our borrowing costs. See "Risk FactorsFinancial Risks" in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Net Operating Loss Carryforwards As of December 31, 2020, Lumen Technologies had approximately $5.1 billion of federal net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs"), which for U.S. federal income tax purposes can be used to offset future taxable income. These NOLs are primarily related to federal NOLs we acquired through the Level 3 acquisition on November 1, 2017 and are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related U.S. Treasury Department regulations. We maintain a Section 382 rights agreement designed to safeguard through late 2023 our ability to use those NOLs. Assuming we can continue using these NOLs in the amounts projected, we expect to reduce our federal cash taxes for the next several years. The amounts of our near-term future tax payments will depend upon many factors, including our future earnings and tax circumstances and results of any corporate tax reform. Based on current laws and our current assumptions and projections, we estimate our cash income tax liability related to 2021 will be approximately $100 million. We cannot assure you we will be able to use our NOL carryforwards fully. See "Risk FactorsFinancial RisksWe may not be able to fully utilize our NOLs" in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Dividends We currently expect to continue our current practice of paying quarterly cash dividends in respect of our common stock subject to our Board of Directors' discretion to modify or terminate this practice at any time and for any reason without prior notice. Our current quarterly common stock dividend rate is $0.25 per share, as approved by our Board of Directors, which we believe is a dividend rate per share which enables us to balance our multiple objectives of managing our business, investing in the business, deleveraging our balance sheet and returning a substantial portion of our cash to our shareholders. Assuming continued payment during 2021 at this rate of $0.25 per share, our average total dividend paid each quarter would be approximately $273 million based on the number of our current outstanding shares (which figure (i) assumes no increases or decreases in the number of shares and (ii) includes dividend payments in connection with the anticipated vesting of currently outstanding equity awards). Dividend payments upon the vesting of equity incentive awards was $23 million during three months ended March 31, 2021. See Risk Factors"Business Risks" in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 43 Table of Contents Revolving Facilities and Other Debt Instruments On January 31, 2020, we amended and restated our credit agreement dated June 19, 2017 to, among other things, extend the debt maturities of the revolving credit and term loan facilities established thereunder, to lower interest rates payable thereunder, and to amend the amounts owed under each of the facilities. For additional information, see (i) "Overview of Sources and Uses of Cash," (ii) Note 5Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report and (iii) Note 6Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. At March 31, 2021, we had $64 million of letters of credit outstanding under our $225 million uncommitted letter of credit facility. Additionally, under a separate facility, we had outstanding letters of credit, or other similar obligations, of approximately $30 million as of March 31, 2021, of which $10 million was collateralized by cash that is reflected on our consolidated balance sheets as restricted cash. In addition to its indebtedness under the Amended Credit Agreement, Lumen Technologies is indebted under its outstanding senior notes, and several of its subsidiaries are indebted under separate credit facilities or senior notes. For information on the terms and conditions of other debt instruments of ours and our subsidiaries, including financial and operating covenants, see (i) Note 5Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report and (ii) "Other Matters" below. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans. At December 31, 2020, the accounting unfunded status of our qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and our qualified post-retirement benefit plans was $1.7 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. For additional information about our pension and post-retirement benefit arrangements, see "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Pensions and Post-Retirement Benefits" in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and see Note 10Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of the same report. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust that holds all of the plan's assets. Based on current laws and circumstances, we do not expect any contributions to be required for our qualified pension plan during 2021. The amount of required contributions to our qualified pension plan in 2022 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. We occasionally make voluntary contributions in addition to required contributions. We last made a voluntary contribution to the trust for our qualified pension plan during 2018. We may make a voluntary contribution to the trust for our qualified pension plan in 2021. Substantially all of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded and are paid by us with available cash. Aggregate benefits paid by us under these plans (net of participant contributions and direct subsidy receipts) were $211 million, $241 million and $249 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For additional information on our expected future benefits payments for our post-retirement benefit plans, please see Note 10Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. The capital markets have been volatile since early 2020, primarily as a result of uncertainties related to the COVID-19 outbreak. U.S. federal governmental actions to stimulate the economy have significantly impacted interest rates. These events could ultimately affect the funding levels of our pension plans and calculations of our liabilities under our pension and other post-employment benefit plans. For 2021, our expected annual long-term rate of return on the pension plan assets is 5.5%. However, actual returns could be substantially different. 44 Table of Contents Our pension plan contains provisions that allow us, from time to time, to offer lump sum payment options to certain former employees in settlement of their future retirement benefits. We record an accounting settlement charge, consisting of the recognition of certain deferred costs of the pension plan, associated with these lump sum payments only if, in the aggregate, they exceed the sum of the annual service and interest costs for the plans net periodic pension benefit cost, which represents the settlement accounting threshold. During 2020 and as of March 31, 2021, the settlement threshold was not reached. Future Contractual Obligations For information regarding our estimated future contractual obligations, see the MD&A discussion included in Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Federal Broadband Support Programs Since 2015, we have been receiving over $500 million annually through Phase II of the CAF, a program that will end this year. In connection with the CAF funding, we must meet certain specified infrastructure buildout requirements in 33 states by the end of 2021, which requires substantial capital expenditures. While we are on track to meet the requirements this year, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to timely meet all of our mandated buildout requirements. In accordance with the Federal Communications Commission's ("FCC") January 2020 order, we elected to receive an additional year of CAF Phase II funding in 2021. In early 2020, the FCC created the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (the RDOF), which is a new federal support program designed to replace the CAF Phase II program. On December 7, 2020, the FCC allocated in its RDOF Phase I auction $9.2 billion in support payments over 10 years to deploy high speed broadband to over 5.2 million unserved locations. We won bids for RDOF Phase I support payments of $26 million, annually. These RDOF Phase I support payments are expected to begin January 1, 2022. For additional information on these programs, see (i) "BusinessRegulation" in Item 1 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and (ii) "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of Part I of the same Annual Report. As part of its proposed infrastructure plan, the Biden Administration has proposed investing $100 billion to expand internet access in the United States. The plan seeks several other changes that could impact us, including proposals to increase competition among broadband providers. Currently, we believe it is premature to speculate on the potential impact of these proposals on us. Historical Information The following table summarizes our consolidated cash flow activities: Three Months Ended March 31, $ Change 2021 2020 (Dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,525 1,299 226 Net cash used in investing activities $ (675) (939) (264) Net cash used in financing activities $ (774) (486) 288 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $226 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to higher net income, higher accrued payroll and accrued interest, and lower payments on accounts payable, partially offset by decreased collections on accounts receivable and increased cash payments for post-retirement benefits. Cash provided by operating activities is subject to variability period over period as a result of timing differences, including with respect to the collection of receivables and payments of interest expense, accounts payable and bonuses. 45 Table of Contents Investing Activities Net cash used in our investing activities decreased by $264 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily due to a decrease in capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities increased by $288 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to higher proceeds from debt issuances in the first quarter of 2020 and the change in net activity of our revolving line of credit agreement, partially offset by a decrease in payments of long-term debt year-over-year. See Note 5Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information on our outstanding debt securities. Other Matters We have cash management and loan arrangements with a majority of our income-generating subsidiaries, in which a substantial portion of the aggregate cash of those subsidiaries' is periodically advanced or loaned to us or our service company affiliate. Although we periodically repay these advances to fund the subsidiaries' cash requirements throughout the year, at any given point in time we may owe a substantial sum to our subsidiaries under these arrangements. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, these arrangements are reflected in the balance sheets of our subsidiaries but are eliminated in consolidation and therefore not recognized on our consolidated balance sheets. We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could substantially impact our financial position. See Note 12Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items for additional information. Market Risk As of March 31, 2021, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations and fluctuations in certain foreign currencies. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and periodically implements strategies to manage the exposure. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) swap our exposure to changing variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. As of March 31, 2021, we did not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. In 2019, we executed swap transactions that reduced our exposure to floating rates with respect to $4.0 billion principal amount of floating rate debt. See Note 10Derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional disclosure regarding our hedging arrangements. As of March 31, 2021, we had approximately $9.7 billion floating rate debt potentially subject to LIBOR, $4.0 billion of which was subject to the above-described hedging arrangements. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in LIBOR relating to our $5.7 billion of unhedged floating rate debt would, among other things, decrease our annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $57 million. We conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the currency in which our consolidated financial statements are reported. Our European subsidiaries and certain Latin American subsidiaries use the local currency as their functional currency, as the majority of their revenue and purchases are transacted in their local currencies. Certain Latin American countries previously designated as highly inflationary economies use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Although we continue to evaluate strategies to mitigate risks related to the effect of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we will likely recognize gains or losses from international 46 Table of Contents transactions. Accordingly, changes in foreign currency rates relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely impact our operating results. Certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the computation of exposures to market risks. Actual values may differ materially from those disclosed by us from time to time if market conditions vary from the assumptions used in the analyses performed. These analyses only incorporate the risk exposures that existed at March 31, 2021. Other Information Our website is www.lumen.com. We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.lumen.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K filed by us or our affiliates Level 3 Parent, LLC and Qwest Corporation, and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.lumen.com ) under the headings "FINANCIALS" and "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC. From time to time, we also use our website to webcast our earnings calls and certain of our meetings with investors or other members of the investment community. 47 Table of Contents