ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "CenturyLink," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CenturyLink, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 of Part I refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See the last paragraph of this Item 2 of Part I and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report for a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our anticipated results or otherwise impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 , and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The results of operations for the first three months of the year are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that might be expected for the entire year. We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, broadband, private line (including special access), Multi-Protocol Label Switching ("MPLS"), data integration, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, Ethernet, network access, video, wireless and other ancillary services. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. At March 31, 2015 , we operated approximately 12.3 million access lines in 37 states, served approximately 6.1 million broadband subscribers, and operated 58 data centers throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Our methodology for counting access lines, broadband subscribers and data centers, which is described further in the operational metrics table below under "Results of Operations", may not be comparable to those of other companies. Effective November 1, 2014, we implemented a new organizational structure designed to strengthen our ability to attain our operational, strategic and financial goals. Prior to this reorganization, we operated and reported as four segments: consumer, business, wholesale and hosting. As a result of this reorganization, we now operate and report the following two segments in our consolidated financial statements: Business. Consists generally of providing strategic, legacy and data integration products and services to enterprise, wholesale and governmental customers, including other communication providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line (including special access), broadband, Ethernet, MPLS, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP"), network management services, colocation, managed hosting and cloud hosting services. Our legacy services offered to these customers primarily include switched access, long-distance, and local services, including the sale of unbundled network elements ("UNEs") which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers; and Consumer. Consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to residential customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our broadband, wireless and video services, including our Prism TV services. Our legacy services offered to these customers include local and long-distance services. 21 Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions except per share amounts) Operating revenues $ 4,451 4,538 Operating expenses 3,802 3,885 Operating income 649 653 Other expense, net (326 ) (322 ) Income tax expense 131 128 Net income $ 192 203 Basic earnings per common share $ 0.34 0.35 Diluted earnings per common share $ 0.34 0.35 The following table summarizes our broadband subscribers, access lines, data centers and number of employees: As of March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2015 2014 (in thousands except for data centers, which are actual amounts) Operational metrics: Total broadband subscribers (1) 6,117 6,057 60 1.0 % Total access lines (1) 12,270 12,882 (612 ) (4.8 )% Total data centers (2) 58 56 2 3.6 % Total employees 44.8 46.5 (1.7 ) (3.7 )% ______________________________________________________________________ (1) Broadband subscribers are customers that purchase high-speed Internet connection service through their existing telephone lines, stand-alone telephone lines, or fiber-optic cables, and access lines are lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public network. Our methodology for counting our broadband subscribers and access lines includes only those lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. It also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. We count lines when we install the service. (2) We define a data center as any facility where we market, sell and deliver colocation services, managed hosting (including cloud hosting) services, multi-tenant managed services, or any combination thereof. Our data centers are located throughout North America, Europe and Asia. During the last decade, we have experienced revenue declines primarily due to declines in access lines, switched access rates and minutes of use. To mitigate these declines, we remain focused on efforts to, among other things: promote long-term relationships with our customers through bundling of integrated services; provide a wide array of diverse services, including additional services that may become available in the future due to, among other things, advances in technology or improvements in our infrastructure; provide our broadband and premium services to a higher percentage of our customers; pursue acquisitions of additional assets if available at attractive prices; increase prices on our products and services if and when practicable; increase usage of our networks; and market our products and services to new customers. 22 Operating Revenues We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily broadband, private line (including special access), MPLS (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), hosting (including cloud hosting and managed hosting), colocation, Ethernet, video (including our facilities-based video services, which we now offer in fourteen markets), VoIP and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, switched access, Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), and traditional wide area network ("WAN") services (which allow a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration , which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers; and Other revenues, which consists primarily of Universal Service Fund ("USF") support and USF surcharges. We receive both federal and state USF support, which are government subsidies designed to reimburse us for the portion of the cost of providing certain telecommunications services, such as in high-cost rural areas, that we are not able to recover from our customers. USF surcharges are the amounts we collect based on specific items we list on our customers invoices to fund the Federal Communications Commission's ("FCC") universal service programs. We also generate other operating revenues from leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. Because we centrally manage the activities that generate these other operating revenues, these revenues are not included in our segment revenues. The following table summarizes our consolidated operating revenues recorded under our four revenue categories: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Strategic services $ 2,320 2,271 49 2 % Legacy services 1,735 1,839 (104 ) (6 )% Data integration 139 174 (35 ) (20 )% Other 257 254 3 1 % Total operating revenues $ 4,451 4,538 (87 ) (2 )% During the first quarter of 2015, we determined that certain products and services associated with our acquisition of SAVVIS, Inc. are more closely aligned to legacy services than to strategic services. As a result, these operating revenues are now reflected as legacy services. The revision resulted in a reduction of revenue from strategic services of $10 million and a corresponding increase in revenue from legacy services for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Our total operating revenues decreased by $87 million , or 2% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to declines in legacy services and data integration revenues, which were partially offset by growth in our strategic services revenues. The decrease in legacy services revenues is attributable to the continuing loss of access lines and loss of access revenues primarily due to the displacement of traditional wireline telephone services by other competitive products and services, including internet and wireless communication services. The decline in data integration revenues, which are typically more volatile than several of our other sources of revenue, is primarily due to lower sales of customer premises equipment to governmental and business customers during the period. The growth in our strategic services revenues is primarily due to increases in broadband, Ethernet, MPLS and facilities-based video services, which were substantially offset by a decline in private line (including special access) services attributable to lower volumes. We estimate that the rate of our access lines losses will be between 4.4% and 5.0% over the full year of 2015. Other operating revenues increased by $3 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to higher revenues related to an increased universal service fund contribution factor, which was substantially offset by lower revenues from intrastate universal service funds. We are aggressively marketing our strategic services (including our hosting services) in an effort to offset the continuing declines in our legacy services revenues. 23 Our future federal USF support revenues could be materially impacted by our upcoming election to receive or reject any specific opportunities to construct additional broadband service plant in unserved portions of our service areas under Phase 2 of the FCC Connect America Fund ("CAF") program. For additional information about the potential revenue impact of the CAF Phase 2 program, see the discussion below in "Liquidity and Capital ResourcesConnect America Fund." Further analysis of our operating revenues by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our consolidated operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,911 1,935 (24 ) (1 )% Selling, general and administrative 851 843 8 1 % Depreciation and amortization 1,040 1,107 (67 ) (6 )% Total operating expenses $ 3,802 3,885 (83 ) (2 )% Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) decreased by $24 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to decreases in customer premises equipment installation expenses related to the decrease in data integration revenues and employee-related costs, which were partially offset by increases in network expenses, facility costs and Prism TV programming expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $8 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in bad debt expense, regulatory fines of $15 million associated with a 911 system outage and impairment charges related to office buildings currently being marketed and classified as assets held for sale, which were partially offset by decreases in employee-related costs and property and other taxes. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail of our depreciation and amortization expense: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Depreciation $ 694 717 (23 ) (3 )% Amortization 346 390 (44 ) (11 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 1,040 1,107 (67 ) (6 )% Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased by $67 million , or 6% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Depreciation expense was $694 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to $ 717 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Annual depreciation expense is impacted by several factors, including changes in our depreciable cost basis, changes in our estimates of the remaining economic life of certain assets and the addition of new plant. The depreciation expense related to our plant for the first quarter of 2015 was lower than the depreciation expense for the first quarter of 2014 due to full depreciation and retirement of certain plant placed in service prior to 2015. This decrease was partially offset by increases in depreciation of new plant placed in service in the first quarter of 2015 and the impact of changes in the estimated lives of certain property, plant and equipment, which resulted in additional depreciation in the first quarter of 2015. We anticipate that the changes in the estimated lives of certain property, plant and equipment will result in an increase in depreciation expense of approximately $48 million for 2015, which will be fully offset by the decreases in depreciation expense noted above. For more information about the changes in our estimates of the remaining economic lives of these assets, see Note 1Basis of Presentation to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. 24 Amortization expense decreased by $44 million from $390 million in the three months ended March 31, 2014 to $346 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily due to the use of accelerated amortization methods for a portion of the customer relationship assets acquired in connection with the acquisitions of Embarq in 2009 and Qwest in 2011. These quarterly declines are expected to continue. In addition, amortization of our software investments declined due to software becoming fully amortized faster than new software was internally developed or purchased. Further analysis of our operating expenses by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Other Consolidated Results The following table summarizes our total other expense, net and income tax expense: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (328 ) (331 ) (3 ) (1 )% Other income, net 2 9 (7 ) (78 )% Total other expense, net $ (326 ) (322 ) 4 1 % Income tax expense $ 131 128 3 2 % Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $3 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to a lower average outstanding debt balance and an increase in capitalized interest, which were substantially offset by a reduction in the amortization of debt premiums. Other Income, Net Other income, net reflects certain items not directly related to our core operations, including our share of income from our 49% interest in a cellular partnership, interest income, gains and losses from non-operating asset dispositions and foreign currency gains and losses. Other income, net decreased by $7 million , or 78% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to increased losses on foreign currency transactions in the current period as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014. Income Tax Expense For the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , our effective income tax rate was 40.6% and 38.7% , respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , includes the effect of regulatory fines associated with a 911 system outage. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , reflects the impact of the reversal of unrecognized tax benefits, which modestly decreased the rate for the first quarter of 2014 . 25 Segment Results General The results for our business and consumer segments are summarized below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Total segment revenues $ 4,194 4,284 Total segment expenses 2,073 2,096 Total segment income $ 2,121 2,188 Total margin percentage 51 % 51 % Business: Revenues $ 2,697 2,775 Expenses 1,484 1,503 Income $ 1,213 1,272 Income margin percentage 45 % 46 % Consumer: Revenues $ 1,497 1,509 Expenses 589 593 Income $ 908 916 Income margin percentage 61 % 61 % Recent Changes in Segment Reporting We have recast our previously reported segment results due to the reorganization of our management structure on November 1, 2014. Consequently, we have adopted several changes with respect to the assignment of certain expenses to our segments, including changes that increased our consumer segment expenses and decreased our business segment expenses in prior periods. We have restated our previously reported segment results for the three months ended March 31, 2014 to conform to the current presentation. See Note 7Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information on our changes in segment reporting. Allocation of Revenues and Expenses Our segment revenues include all revenues from our strategic services, legacy services and data integration as described in more detail above. Segment revenues are based upon each customer's classification as either a business or consumer. For information on how we allocate expenses to our segments, as well as other additional information about our segments, see Note 7Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. 26 Business The operations of our business segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. Our mix of total business segment revenues continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our enterprise, wholesale and governmental customers increasingly demand integrated data, Internet, hosting and voice services. Although we are experiencing price compression on our strategic services due to competition, we expect strategic revenues from these services to continue to grow during 2015. Demand for our private line services (including special access) from our wholesale customers continues to decline due to our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration to higher-speed services. While we expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our wholesale customers, we believe the demand for our fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will partially offset the decline in copper-based special access services provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration remains uncertain. We anticipate continued pricing pressure for our colocation services as wholesale vendors continue to expand their enterprise colocation operations. We believe, however, that our hybrid service capabilities, which offer multiple products and services (including colocation, managed hosting, cloud and network services), will help differentiate our products and services from those offered by competitors with a narrower range of products and services. We have remained focused on expanding our managed hosting services, specifically our cloud services offerings, by endeavoring to add differentiating features to our cloud products and acquiring additional companies that we believe have strengthened our cloud products. In recent years, our competitors, as well as several large, diversified technology companies, have made substantial investments in cloud computing, which has intensified competitive pressures. This expansion in competitive cloud computing offerings has led to increased pricing pressure and competition for enterprise customers, and we expect these trends to continue. Segment revenue for hosting area network products supporting colocation and managed hosting service offerings have been relatively flat due to providing lower volumes of such services, as well as pricing pressures on VPN and bandwidth services; Legacy services. We face intense competition with respect to our higher margin legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services and into lower margin strategic services. In addition, our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price compression. Our access, local services and long-distance revenues have been, and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected by customer migration to more technologically advanced services, declining demand for traditional voice services, industry consolidation and price compression caused by regulation and rate reductions. For example, many wholesale customers are substituting cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued access revenue loss. Our switched access revenues have been and will continue to be impacted by changes related to the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("the 2011 order") adopted by the FCC in 2011, which we believe has increased the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive from our wholesale customers; Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from year to year as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal, state and local governmental customers, many of whom have recently experienced substantial budget cuts with the possibility of additional future budget cuts; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our segment operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions, while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. However, our ongoing efforts to increase revenue will continue to require that we incur higher costs in some areas, including the hiring of additional sales employees. We also expect our business segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 27 The following table summarizes the results of operations from our business segment: Business Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) %Change 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 1,582 1,569 13 1 % Legacy services 977 1,033 (56 ) (5 )% Data integration 138 173 (35 ) (20 )% Total revenues 2,697 2,775 (78 ) (3 )% Segment expenses: Total expenses 1,484 1,503 (19 ) (1 )% Segment income $ 1,213 1,272 (59 ) (5 )% Segment income margin percentage 45 % 46 % Segment Revenues Business revenues decreased by $78 million , or 3% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decrease in business segment revenues was primarily due to decline in legacy services revenues and data integration revenues, which were partially offset by growth in our strategic services revenues. The decline in legacy services revenues was attributable to a reduction in local service access lines and lower volumes of long-distance, access and traditional WAN services for the reasons noted above. The decrease in data integration revenues was primarily due to lower sales of customer premises equipment to governmental and business customers during the period. The growth in our strategic services revenues was primarily due to strong MPLS unit growth and higher Ethernet volumes, which were substantially offset by a decline in private line (including special access) services attributable to lower volumes. Segment Expenses Business expenses decreased by $19 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to a decrease in customer premises equipment costs resulting from the lower governmental and business sales noted above and a reduction in employee-related expenses attributable to employee benefits and professional fees, which were partially offset by increases in network expenses, external commissions and facility costs. Segment Income Business income decreased by $59 million , or 5% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decrease in business segment income was primarily due to the loss of customers and lower service volumes in our legacy services, which caused the declines in our revenues to outpace the declines in our segment expenses. 28 Consumer The operations of our consumer segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. In order to remain competitive and attract additional residential broadband subscribers, we believe it is important to continually increase our broadband network's scope and connection speeds. As a result, we continue to invest in our broadband network, which allows for the delivery of higher-speed broadband services to a greater number of customers. We compete in a maturing broadband market in which most consumers already have broadband services and growth rates in new subscribers have slowed. Moreover, as described further in Item 1A of Part II of this report, demand for our broadband services could be adversely affected by competitors continuing to provide services at higher average broadband speed than ours or expanding their advanced wireless data service offerings. We also continue to expand our other strategic product offerings, including facilities-based video services. The expansion of our facilities-based video service infrastructure requires us to incur substantial content and start-up expenses in advance of marketing and selling the service. Although, over time, we expect that our revenue for facilities-based video services will offset the expenses incurred, the timing of this revenue growth is uncertain and the video business is growing increasingly competitive. We believe these efforts to expand our offerings will ultimately improve our ability to compete and increase our strategic revenues; Legacy services. Our voice revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice services and electronic mail, texting and social networking non-voice services for traditional voice telecommunications services. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business. As a result of the expected loss of higher margin services associated with access lines, we continue to offer our customers service bundling and other product promotions to help mitigate this trend, as described below; Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While we believe our bundled service offerings can help retain customers, they also tend to lower our profit margins in the consumer segment; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our segment operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. We also expect our consumer segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. The following table summarizes the results of operations from our consumer segment: Consumer Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 738 702 36 5 % Legacy services 758 806 (48 ) (6 )% Data integration 1 1 % Total revenues 1,497 1,509 (12 ) (1 )% Segment expenses: Total expenses 589 593 (4 ) (1 )% Segment income $ 908 916 (8 ) (1 )% Segment income margin percentage 61 % 61 % 29 Segment Revenues Consumer revenues decreased by $12 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decline in legacy services revenues was primarily due to declines in local and long-distance service volumes associated with access line losses resulting from the reasons noted above. The increase in strategic services revenues was due primarily to increases in the number of our Prism TV customers and increases in the number of broadband subscribers, as well as from price increases on various services. Segment Expenses Consumer expenses decreased by $4 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to decreases in employee-related expenses, which were substantially offset by increases in programming expenses for Prism TV content resulting from subscriber growth in our Prism TV markets and content rate increases and bad debt expense. Segment Income Consumer income decreased by $8 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decline in consumer segment income was primarily due to customers migrating from legacy services to lower margin strategic services, which caused our segment revenues to decrease and our segment expenses to increase. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At March 31, 2015 , we held cash and cash equivalents of $155 million and we had approximately $1.7 billion of borrowing capacity available under our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility (as amended and referred to as our "Credit Facility", which is described further below). At March 31, 2015 , cash and cash equivalents of $53 million were held in foreign bank accounts for the purpose of funding our foreign operations. Due to various factors, our access to foreign cash is generally much more restricted than our access to domestic cash. In connection with our budgeting process in early 2015 , our executive officers and our Board of Directors reviewed our sources and potential uses of cash over the next several years, including among other things the previously-disclosed effect of the anticipated depletion of our federal net operating loss carryforwards during 2015 . Based on our current capital allocation objectives, during the remaining nine months of 2015 we anticipate expending approximately $2.4 billion of cash for capital investment in property, plant and equipment and up to $916 million for dividends on our common stock, based on the current quarterly common stock dividend rate of $0.54 and the current number of outstanding common shares. We have debt maturities of approximately $92 million , scheduled debt principal payments of approximately $17 million and scheduled capital lease and other obligation payments of approximately $56 million due during the remainder of 2015. We also anticipate expending cash for repurchasing common stock, but the amount will largely depend on market conditions. We will continue to monitor our future sources and uses of cash, and anticipate that we will make adjustments to our capital allocation strategies when, as and if determined by our Board of Directors. We use our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity for operating activities and to give us additional flexibility to finance, among other things, our capital investments, repayments of debt, pension contributions, dividends or stock repurchases. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted impact on revenue growth, productivity, expenses, service levels and customer retention) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations. Based on our current objectives, we estimate our total capital expenditures will be approximately $2.4 billion for the remaining nine months of 2015. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused largely on our strategic services. For more information on capital spending, see Items 1 and 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . 30 Debt and Other Financing Arrangements Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to issue debt securities from time to time in the future to refinance a substantial portion of our maturing debt, including issuing Qwest Corporation debt securities to refinance its maturing debt to the extent feasible. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned to us and Qwest Corporation by credit rating agencies, among other factors. As of the date of this report, the credit ratings for the senior unsecured debt of CenturyLink, Inc. and Qwest Corporation were as follows: Agency CenturyLink, Inc. Qwest Corporation Standard & Poor's BB BBB- Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Ba2 Baa3 Fitch Ratings BB+ BBB- Our credit ratings are reviewed and adjusted from time to time by the rating agencies, and downgrades of CenturyLink's senior unsecured debt ratings could, under certain circumstances, incrementally increase the cost of our borrowing under the Credit Facility. Moreover, any downgrades of CenturyLink's or Qwest Corporation's senior unsecured debt ratings could impact our access to debt capital or further raise our borrowing costs. See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Net Operating Loss Carryforwards We are currently using NOLs to offset our federal taxable income. At December 31, 2014 , we had approximately $1.6 billion of federal net operating losses. Based on current laws and circumstances, including the statutory extension allowing bonus depreciation for 2014, we now expect to deplete a substantial portion of these tax benefits during 2015. Once our NOLs are substantially utilized, we expect that the amounts of our cash flows dedicated to the payment of federal taxes will increase substantially thereafter. The amounts of those payments will depend upon many factors, including future earnings, tax law changes and future tax circumstances. For additional information, see "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Liquidity and Capital Resources" appearing in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Dividends We currently expect to continue our current practice of paying quarterly cash dividends in respect of our common stock subject to our Board of Directors' discretion to modify or terminate this practice at any time and for any reason. Our current quarterly common stock dividend rate is $ 0.54 per share, as approved by our Board of Directors, which we believe is a dividend rate per share that gives us the flexibility to balance our multiple objectives of managing our business, paying our fixed commitments and returning cash to our shareholders. Assuming continued payment at this rate of $0.54 per share, our total dividends paid each quarter would be approximately $305 million based on our current number of outstanding shares (which does not reflect shares that we might repurchase or issue in future periods). See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of Part II of this report and the discussion of our stock repurchase program below. Stock Repurchase Program In February 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a 24 -month program to repurchase up to an aggregate of $1 billion of our outstanding common stock. This 2014 stock repurchase program took effect on May 29, 2014, immediately upon the completion of our predecessor 2013 stock repurchase program. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , we repurchased 4.5 million shares for $170 million or an average purchase price of $37.53 per share under this 2014 stock repurchase program (excluding common shares that, as of March 31, 2015, we had agreed to purchase under the program for an aggregate of $9 million in transactions that settled early in the second quarter of 2015). The repurchased common stock has been retired. We currently expect to continue purchasing shares under this 2014 program in open market transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors. As of March 31, 2015 , we had approximately $630 million remaining available for stock repurchases under this 2014 stock repurchase program. As of May 4, 2015, we had repurchased 11.7 million shares for $439 million , or an average price of $37.60 per share, under our 2014 stock repurchase program. For additional information on repurchases made during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , see Item 2 of Part II of this report. 31 Credit Facilities and Term Loans We maintain a $2 billion revolving credit facility, which, as amended, matures on December 3, 2019. The amended Credit Facility (the "Credit Facility") has 16 lenders, with commitments ranging from $3.5 million to $198.5 million and allows us to obtain revolving loans and to issue up to $400 million of letters of credit, which upon issuance reduces the amount available for other extensions of credit. Interest is assessed on borrowings using either the LIBOR or the base rate (each as defined in the Credit Facility) plus an applicable margin between 1.00% and 2.25% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.00% and 1.25% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by nine of our subsidiaries. At March 31, 2015 , we had $300 million in borrowings and no amounts of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility. Under the Credit Facility, we, and our indirect subsidiary, Qwest Corporation, must maintain a debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined in our Credit Facility) ratio of not more than 4.0:1.0 and 2.85:1.0, respectively, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter for the four quarters then ended. The Credit Facility also contains a negative pledge covenant, which generally requires us to secure equally and ratably any advances under the Credit Facility if we pledge assets or permit liens on our property for the benefit of other debtholders. The Credit Facility also has a cross payment default provision, and the Credit Facility and certain of our debt securities also have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. To the extent that our EBITDA (as defined in our Credit Facility) is reduced by cash settlements or judgments, including in respect of any of the matters discussed in Note 8Commitment and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, our debt to EBITDA ratios under certain debt agreements will be adversely affected. This could reduce our financing flexibility due to potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements or, in certain circumstances, could result in a default under certain provisions of such agreements. At March 31, 2015 , we owed $374 million under a term loan maturing in 2019 , which includes covenants substantially the same as those set forth in the Credit Facility. At March 31, 2015 , QC owed $100 million under a term loan maturing in 2025. We have a $160 million uncommitted revolving letter of credit facility which enables us to provide letters of credit under terms that may be more favorable than those under the Credit Facility. At March 31, 2015 , our outstanding letters of credit totaled $119 million under this facility. On March 13, 2015, we amended our term loan agreement to reduce the interest rate payable by us thereunder and to modify some covenants to provide additional flexibility. In January 2015, we entered into a $100 million uncommitted revolving line of credit with one of the lenders under the Credit Facility. Future Contractual Obligations For information regarding our estimated future contractual obligations, see the MD&A discussion included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans. At December 31, 2014 , the accounting unfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement plans were $2.5 billion and $3.5 billion , respectively. See Note 7Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 for additional information about our pension and post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust that holds all plan assets. We made no cash contributions to the trust for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and, based on current laws and circumstances, we do not expect any contributions to be required for our qualified pension plan for the remaining nine months of 2015 . The amount of required contributions to our qualified pension plan in 2016 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. 32 Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. Several trusts hold assets that are used to partially cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of December 31, 2014 , the fair value of these trust assets was approximately $353 million ; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately two years. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trusts as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected two year period could be shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. For 2015, our estimated annual long-term rate of return is 7.5% for both the pension plan trust assets and post-retirement plans trust assets, based on the assets currently held. However, actual returns could be substantially different. In 2014, we adopted new mortality assumptions, which significantly increased the accounting unfunded status of our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations. For additional information on this and other factors that could influence our funding commitments under our benefit plans, see "Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesPension and Post-retirement Benefits" in this Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 and "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Liquidity and Capital ResourcesIncreases in costs for pension and healthcare benefits for our active and retired employee may reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Connect America Fund In October 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies. Among other changes, this initial ruling established the framework for a multi-year transition of federal universal service funding to a new system where such funding is explicitly targeted to the deployment and provisioning of broadband services in high cost areas. In December 2014, the FCC issued an order finalizing requirements and conditions of the CAF phase 2 program in order to proceed with the offer of support to price cap carriers. On April 29, 2015 the FCC announced the official offer of support to price cap carriers, on a state by state basis, to build and operate a network capable of providing high-speed broadband services to underserved areas. We now have until August 27, 2015 to elect whether to exercise a right of first refusal to provide broadband services to households in unserved/underserved areas of our service territory. The FCC has offered to us up to $514 million per year for the next six years to provide service to 1,190,016 locations in census blocks subject to the offer. To the extent that we choose not to accept these opportunities and related CAF Phase 2 funds for any state under our right of first refusal, we expect that those opportunities and funds would be awarded at auction in either 2016 or 2017. We currently expect that we, as well as other communications companies, would be able to participate in these various future state auctions in either 2016 or 2017. The effects on us of either accepting or rejecting CAF Phase 2 funding are highly uncertain over the long term. In states where we accept the CAF Phase 2 funding, the annual distributions will begin later in 2015. In states where we do not accept CAF Phase 2 support, the legacy USF high-cost support, also referred to as Frozen Support, we have historically received, will continue until the CAF Phase 2 auctions are completed. If we elect by August 27, 2015 to receive all $514 million CAF Phase 2 funding available to us, the total support per year will be approximately $169 million greater than the federal Universal Service Fund high-cost support subsidies the CAF Phase 2 opportunities would replace. However, to obtain this additional $169 million of support, we will likely need to increase our planned capital expenditures by over $500 million per year. Conversely, if we elect to forego all available CAF Phase 2 funding, we will continue to receive approximately $345 million in federal USF high-cost support subsidies in 2015 and at least a portion of 2016, but the programs impact on us beyond 2016 would depend on the extent to which we would participate and prevail in the future auctions described above. If we ultimately receive no CAF Phase 2 funding (either through elections not to participate in the program or failures to prevail at the future auctions), we anticipate forfeiting following such future auctions a substantial portion of the approximately $345 million of USF high-cost support funds that we expect to receive in 2015. These forfeitures would have a material adverse impact on our cash flows. Historically, we have recognized the full amount of our annual federal USF high-cost support payments as revenue in the year received. We are still in the process of determining how to recognize funds that may be received under CAF Phase 2, but because of differences inherent in the CAF Phase 2 process, we will likely defer the recognition of CAF Phase 2 funding until specific CAF Phase 2 deployment projects are completed. This potential difference in accounting treatment could materially reduce our revenue beginning at the date, on or before August 27, 2015, when we formally elect to receive any CAF Phase 2 funds. Participating in this CAF phase 2 program would likely generate incremental broadband subscribers and revenue which, however, would not occur until the network build is complete and service is available at the required broadband speeds. 33 As of the date of filing of this report, we have not yet decided whether to accept or reject any specific build-out opportunities and related CAF support payments available to us under the Phase 2 program. We continue to evaluate our options with respect to the opportunities afforded to us under the FCCs CAF Phase 2 program, including assessing whether our projected return on capital warrants pursuing these opportunities in our various markets. Although we cannot determine at this point the ultimate impact of the implementation of the FCCs CAF Phase 2 program on us, it could have a material impact on our revenues, expenses and cash flows. In 2013, under the second round of the first phase of the CAF program, we received $40 million in funding for deployment of broadband services in rural areas. The recently issued CAF Phase 2 program overlaps certain eligible areas of the second round funding, and we are currently unable to determine how much of the $40 million in funding we will utilize or return to the FCC. The $40 million of CAF second round of the first phase funding is included in other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2015. For additional information, see "BusinessRegulation" in Item 1 of Part I of our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Historical Information The following table summarizes our consolidated cash flow activities: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2015 2014 (Dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,336 1,380 (44 ) Net cash used in investing activities (610 ) (682 ) (72 ) Net cash used in financing activities (699 ) (647 ) 52 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $44 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to a decrease in net income adjusted for non-cash items and negative variances in the changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable. These decreases were substantially offset by a positive variance in other current assets and liabilities, net, which was primarily due to a payment of approximately $235 million in the first quarter of 2014 to settle certain litigation. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $72 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to a decrease in payments for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $52 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 primarily due to an increase in net debt paydowns, which were partially offset by a reduction in common stock repurchases. On March 19, 2015, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Notes due 2025, in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and other expenses, of approximately $494 million. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at any time before January 1, 2025 at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the Notes or the sum of the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes, discounted to the redemption date in the manner described in the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. At any time on or after January 1, 2025, we may redeem the Notes at par plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or prior to April 1, 2018, we may redeem up to 35% of the principal amount of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.625% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings. Under certain circumstances, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at a price of 101% of the aggregate principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date. On February 20, 2015, QC entered into a term loan in the amount of $100 million with CoBank, ACB. The outstanding unpaid principal amount of this term loan plus any accrued and unpaid interest is due on February 20, 2025, the maturity date of the loan. Interest is paid quarterly based upon either the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or the base rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus an applicable margin between 1.50% to 2.50% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.50% to 1.50% per annum for base rate loans depending on QC's then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. As of March 31, 2015, the outstanding principle balance on this term loan was $100 million. 34 On February 17, 2015, CenturyLink paid at maturity the $350 million principal plus accrued and unpaid interest due under its series M 5.000% Notes. Certain Matters Related to Acquisitions When we acquired Qwest and Savvis in 2011, Qwest's pre-acquisition debt obligations consisted primarily of debt securities issued by QCII and two of its subsidiaries while Savvis' long-term debt obligations (after the discharge of its convertible senior notes in connection with the completion of the acquisition) consisted primarily of capital leases, the remaining outstanding portions of which are all now included in our consolidated debt balances. The indentures governing Qwest's remaining debt securities contain customary covenants that restrict the ability of Qwest or its subsidiaries from making certain payments and investments, granting liens and selling or transferring assets. Based on current circumstances, we do not anticipate that these covenants will significantly restrict our ability to manage cash balances or transfer cash between entities within our consolidated group of companies as needed. In accounting for the Qwest acquisition, we recorded Qwest's debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $12.292 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value of Qwest's debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $693 million , which we recorded as a premium. The table below summarizes the portions of this premium recognized as a reduction to interest expense or extinguished during the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 From April 1, 2011 through December 31, 2014 Total Since Acquisition (Dollars in millions) Amortized $ 6 344 350 Extinguished (1) 276 276 Total $ 6 620 626 ______________________________________________________________________ (1) Extinguished in connection with the payment of Qwest debt securities prior to maturity. The remaining premium of $67 million as of March 31, 2015 , will reduce interest expense in future periods, unless otherwise extinguished. Other Matters In late February 2015, the FCC adopted new regulations that regulate internet services as a public utility under Title II of the Communications Act. Although it is premature for us to determine the ultimate impact of the new regulations on our operations, we currently expect that they will negatively impact our current operations. For additional information, see Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters in Item 1A of Part II of this report. CenturyLink has cash management arrangements with certain of its principal subsidiaries, in which substantial portions of the subsidiaries' cash is regularly advanced to CenturyLink. Although CenturyLink periodically repays these advances to fund the subsidiaries' cash requirements throughout the year, at any given point in time CenturyLink may owe a substantial sum to our subsidiaries under these advances, which, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are eliminated in consolidation and therefore not recognized on our consolidated balance sheets. We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. See Note 8Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for the current status of such legal proceedings. Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations and fluctuations in certain foreign currencies. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. 35 Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and periodically implements strategies to manage the exposure. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of March 31, 2015 , we had no such instruments outstanding. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. By operating internationally, we are exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the foreign currencies in which our international subsidiaries operate in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Hong Kong Dollar and the Singapore Dollar. Although the percentages of our consolidated revenues and costs that are denominated in these currencies are immaterial, future volatility in exchange rates and an increase in the number of transactions could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations. Certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the computation of exposures to market risks. Actual values may differ materially from those presented above if market conditions vary from the assumptions used in the analyses performed. These analyses only incorporate the risk exposures that existed at March 31, 2015 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements, (ii) disclosed in Note 15Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 or (iii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" above. Other Information Our website is www.centurylink.com. We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. Certain of the industry and market data (such as the size of certain markets and our position within these markets) used throughout this report are based on independent industry publications, government publications, reports by market research firms or other published independent sources. Some market data and statistical information are also based on our good faith estimates, which are derived from our review of internal surveys, as well as the independent sources listed above. This information may prove to be inaccurate because of the method by which we obtain some of the data for our estimates or because this information cannot always be verified with certainty due to the limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and other limitations and uncertainties. As a result, although we believe these sources are reliable, we have not independently verified the information and cannot guarantee its accuracy and completeness. 36 In addition to historical information, this MD&A includes certain forward-looking statements that are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date of this report concerning future developments and events, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or implied by us in those statements if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change, including product displacement; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including the outcome of regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment, data protection and net neutrality); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demand for high-speed broadband services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; the adverse impact on our business and network from possible equipment failures, security breaches or similar attacks on our network; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in projected amounts; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled companies; our ability to maintain favorable relations with our key business partners, suppliers, vendors, landlords and financial institutions; any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us; changes in our operating plans, corporate strategies, dividend payment plans or other capital allocation plans, including those caused by changes in our cash requirements, capital expenditure needs, debt obligations, pension funding requirements, cash flows, or financial position, or other similar changes; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced in this report (including in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report) or from time to time in other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business and our recent acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 , as updated and supplemented by our subsequent SEC reports, including this report. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Furthermore, any information about our intentions contained in any of our forward-looking statements reflects our intentions as of the date of this report, and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory and technological environment, industry and competitive conditions, and economic and market conditions, and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, strategies or plans (including our dividend or stock repurchase plans) at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. 37