ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "CenturyLink," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CenturyLink, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this quarterly report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See the last paragraph of this Item 2 and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report for a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our anticipated results or otherwise impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The results of operations for the first three months of the year are not indicative of the results of operations that might be expected for the entire year. We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), public access, broadband, data, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, wireless, and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to competitive local exchange carriers and security monitoring. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. At March 31, 2013, we operated 13.6 million access lines in 37 states, served approximately 5.9 million broadband subscribers, and operated 54 data centers throughout North America, Europe and Asia. During the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to include residential, business and wholesale subscribers instead of only residential and small business subscribers. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change. Our methodology for counting access lines may not be comparable to those of other companies. On January 3, 2013, we announced a reorganization of our operating segments. Consequently, beginning with the first quarter of 2013, we are reporting the following four segments in our consolidated financial statements: Consumer. Consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to residential consumers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our broadband, wireless and video services, including our Prism TV services. Our legacy services offered to these customers include local and long-distance service; Business. Consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to commercial, enterprise, global and government customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line (including special access), broadband, Ethernet, Multiple Protocol Labeling Switching ("MPLS"), Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP"), managed customer premise equipment ("CPE") services and network management services. Our legacy services offered to these customers include local and long-distance service; 20 Table of Contents Wholesale. Consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to other communications providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers are mainly private line (including special access) and MPLS. Our legacy services offered to these customers include unbundled network elements ("UNEs") which allow our wholesale customers the use of our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers, long-distance and switched access services; and Data hosting. Consists primarily of providing colocation, managed hosting and cloud hosting services to national and international enterprise and government customers. The primary purpose of the reorganization is to strengthen our focus on the business market while continuing our commitment to our wholesale, hosting and consumer customers. The reorganization combined business sales and operations functions that resided in the enterprise marketsnetwork segment and the regional markets segment into the new unified business segment. The remaining customers serviced by the regional markets segment became the new consumer segment. Our segment information does not include capital expenditures, total assets, or certain revenues and expenses that we manage on a centralized basis and are only reviewed by our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") on a consolidated basis. Our segment results are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that our segments would have achieved had they operated as stand-alone entities during the periods presented. For additional information about our segments, see Note 8Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part 1 of this report and "Results of OperationsSegment Results" below. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012. Operating revenues $ 4,513 4,610 Operating expenses 3,731 3,956 Operating income 782 654 Other income (expense) (277) (323) Income tax expense 207 131 Net income $ 298 200 Basic earnings per common share $ .48 .32 Diluted earnings per common share $ .48 .32 The following table summarizes certain of our selected operational metrics: Broadband subscribers 5,915 5,745 170 3.0% Access lines 13,558 14,379 (821) (5.7)% Employees 45.8 47.9 (2.1) (4.4)% 21 Table of Contents During the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to include residential, business and wholesale subscribers instead of only residential and small business subscribers. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change. During the last several years, we have experienced revenue declines (excluding the impact of acquisitions) primarily due to declines in access lines, intrastate access rates and minutes of use. To mitigate these declines, we remain focused on efforts to, among other things: promote long-term relationships with our customers through bundling of integrated services; provide new services, such as video, cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation and other additional services that may become available in the future due to, among other things, advances in technology or improvements in our infrastructure; provide our broadband and premium services to a higher percentage of our customers; pursue acquisitions of additional assets if available at attractive prices; increase usage of our networks; and market our products and services to new customers. Operating Revenues We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily broadband, private line (including special access which we market to wholesale and business customers), MPLS (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), hosting (including cloud hosting and managed hosting), colocation, Ethernet, video (including resold satellite and our facilities-based video services), VoIP and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, switched access, public access, integrated services digital network ("ISDN") (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), and traditional wide area network ("WAN") services (which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration , which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic networks for our government and business customers; and Other revenues, which consists primarily of USF revenue and surcharges. Unlike the first three revenue categories, other revenues are not included in our segment revenues. The following table summarizes our operating revenues under our current revenue categorization: Strategic services $ 2,142 2,058 84 4% Legacy services 1,974 2,141 (167) (8)% Data integration 140 145 (5) (3)% Other 257 266 (9) (3)% Total operating revenues $ 4,513 4,610 (97) (2)% 22 Table of Contents Operating revenues decreased $97 million, or 2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. This decrease was primarily attributable to declines in legacy services revenues, which reflected the continuing loss of access lines in our markets. We believe the decline in the number of access lines was primarily due to the displacement of traditional wireline telephone services by other competitive products and services. We estimate that our access lines loss will be between 5.4% and 5.9% in 2013. Our legacy services revenues were also negatively impacted in 2013 by the continued migration of customers to bundled service offerings at lower effective rates. The decreases in our legacy services revenues were partially offset by higher revenues from strategic services revenues. Broadband, Ethernet, MPLS and managed hosting services accounted for a majority of the growth in strategic services revenues. Further analysis of our operating revenues by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Operating Expenses Our operating expenses decreased by $225 million or 6% for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to March 31, 2012. The following table summarizes our operating expenses: Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,796 1,877 (81) (4)% Selling, general and administrative 818 871 (53) (6)% Depreciation and amortization 1,117 1,208 (91) (8)% Total operating expenses $ 3,731 3,956 (225) (6)% Cost of services and products decreased slightly for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to decreased salary and wage costs associated with the reduction in headcount, reduction in severance payments related to our recent acquisitions and decreases in employee benefits costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to decreased salary and wage costs associated with the reduction in headcount, decreases in employee benefits costs and a reduction in bad debt expense, partially offset by an unfavorable accounting adjustment for life insurance costs. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to depreciation and amortization rate changes of certain telecommunications equipment and capitalized software. The rate changes are the result of our aged investment in plant and capitalized software becoming fully depreciated or retired at a faster rate than the acquisition of new plant and software. We expect second quarter 2013 operating expenses to increase compared to first quarter 2013 primarily due to higher seasonal expenses, costs related to our continued investment in key initiatives and higher costs related to increased data integration. Further analysis of our operating expenses by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." 23 Table of Contents Other Consolidated Results The following table summarizes our total other income (expense) and income tax expense: Interest expense $ (316) (343) (27) (8)% Net gain on early retirement of debt 8 (8) nm Other income (expense) 39 12 27 nm Total other income (expense) $ (277) (323) (46) (14)% Income tax expense 207 131 76 58% nmPercentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful Interest Expense Interest expense decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to a lower weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding debt resulting from several debt financing transactions in the past fifteen months. The decrease was partially offset by a reduction in the amortization of debt premiums recorded in connection with our recent acquisitions. See Note 3Long-term Debt and Credit Facilities and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for additional information about our debt. Other Income (Expense) Other income reflects certain items not directly related to our core operations, including gains and losses from non-operating asset dispositions and impairments, our share of income from our 49% interest in a cellular partnership, interest income and foreign currency gains and losses. Other income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to a $32 million gain on the sale of wireless spectrum in January 2013. In the three months ended March 31, 2012 we recorded gains on the redemption of QCII's 7.50% Notes due in 2014 and a sale of our auction rate securities. See Note 3Long-term Debt and Credit Facilities and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for additional information about our debt. Income Tax Expense The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was 41.0% compared to 39.6% for the comparative prior year period. The 2013 year-to-date effective tax rate reflects the impact of an accounting adjustment for nondeductible life insurance costs. 24 Table of Contents Segment Results General We have restated previously reported segment results due to the above-described reorganization of our business. Segment results are summarized below: Total segment revenues $ 4,256 4,344 Total segment expenses 1,945 2,020 Total segment income $ 2,311 2,324 Total margin percentage 54.3% 53.5% Consumer: Revenues $ 1,511 1,564 Expenses 526 567 Income $ 985 997 Margin percentage 65.2% 63.7% Business: Revenues $ 1,504 1,508 Expenses 881 910 Income $ 623 598 Margin percentage 41.4% 39.7% Wholesale: Revenues $ 907 962 Expenses 274 312 Income $ 633 650 Margin percentage 69.8% 67.6% Data hosting: Revenues $ 334 310 Expenses 264 231 Income $ 70 79 Margin percentage 21.0% 25.5% Our segment revenues include all revenues from our strategic services, legacy services and data integration as described in more detail above. Segment revenues are based upon each customer's classification to an individual segment. We report our segment revenues based upon all services provided to that segment's customers. We report our segment expenses for our four segments as follows: Direct expenses , which primarily are specific expenses incurred as a direct result of providing services and products to segment customers, along with selling, general and administrative expenses that are directly associated with specific segment customers or activities; and 25 Table of Contents Allocated expenses , which include network expenses, facilities expenses and other expenses such as fleet and real estate expenses. We do not assign depreciation and amortization expense to our segments, as the related assets and capital expenditures are centrally managed. Similarly, severance expenses, restructuring expenses and, subject to an exception for our data hosting segment, certain centrally managed administrative functions (such as finance, information technology, legal and human resources) are not assigned to our segments. Interest expense is also excluded from segment results because we manage our financing on a total company basis and have not allocated assets or debt to specific segments. In addition, other income (expense) does not relate to our segment operations and is therefore excluded from our segment results. As a result of the change in our operating segments previously discussed, we performed a qualitative assessment of our goodwill and concluded our goodwill assigned to the reporting units prior to the reorganization was not impaired. Consumer The operations of our consumer segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services in our consumer segment. In order to remain competitive, we believe continually increasing connection speeds is important. As a result, we continue to invest in our broadband network, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services. We also continue to expand our product offerings including facilities-based video services, and we continue to refine our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which most consumers already have broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and increase our strategic revenues; Facilities-based video expenses. As we continue to expand our facilities-based video service infrastructure, we are incurring start-up expenses in advance of the revenue that this service is expected to generate. Although, over time, we expect that our revenue for facilities-based video services will offset the expenses incurred, the timing of this revenue growth is uncertain; Access lines. Our voice revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice and electronic mail, texting and social networking services for traditional voice telecommunications services. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business. As a result of the expected loss of revenues associated with access lines, we continue to offer service bundling and other product promotions to help mitigate this trend, as described below; Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. 26 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the results of operations from our consumer segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 620 588 32 5% Legacy services 889 974 (85) (9)% Data integration 2 2 Total revenues 1,511 1,564 (53) (3)% Segment expenses: Direct 413 445 (32) (7)% Allocated 113 122 (9) (7)% Total expenses 526 567 (41) (7)% Segment income $ 985 997 (12) (1)% Segment margin percentage 65.2% 63.7% Segment Income Declines in local and long-distance services associated with access line loss largely contributed to a decrease in our consumer segment income for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. The decrease in revenues was substantially offset by lower expenses. Segment Revenues Consumer revenues decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. Growth in strategic services revenues did not fully offset a decline in legacy services revenues. The increase in strategic services revenues is due primarily to volume increases in our facilities-based video and increases in the number of broadband subscribers. Legacy services revenues decreased primarily due to declines in local and long-distance services associated with access line losses resulting from competitive pressures. Segment Expenses Consumer expenses decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to decreases in salaries, wages and benefits as a result of headcount reductions and decreased allocated expenses. Allocated expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in network expenses, including professional fees, salaries, wages and benefits, as well as, to decreases in fleet expenses. Business The operations of our business segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. Our mix of total segment revenues continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our commercial, enterprise, global and government customers increasingly demand customized and integrated data, Internet and voice services. We offer 27 Table of Contents diverse combinations of emerging technology products and services such as private line, MPLS, and VoIP services. We believe these services afford our customers more flexibility in managing their communications needs and enable us to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their operations. Although we are experiencing price compression on our strategic services due to competition, we expect strategic revenues from these services to grow during 2013. Legacy services. We face intense competition with respect to our legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services and into strategic services. In addition, our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price compression. Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal, state and local government customers, many of whom have recently experienced budget cuts. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions, while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. We also expect our business segment to benefit indirectly from efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. The following table summarizes the results of operations from our business segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 615 578 37 6% Legacy services 751 787 (36) (5)% Data integration 138 143 (5) (3)% Total revenues 1,504 1,508 (4) Segment expenses: Direct 778 799 (21) (3)% Allocated 103 111 (8) (7)% Total expenses 881 910 (29) (3)% Segment income $ 623 598 25 4% Segment margin percentage 41.4% 39.7% Segment Income Business income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to decreases in direct expenses alongside flat revenues. 28 Table of Contents Segment Revenues Business revenues decreased slightly for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. This decrease primarily reflected lower revenues from legacy services driven by access line losses and lower data integration revenues due to lower sales of data integration equipment. The strategic services growth came from increase in Ethernet and MPLS services. Segment Expenses Business expenses decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to decreases in salaries, wages and benefits as a result of headcount reductions, lower bad debt expense and a decline in marketing and advertising. Allocated expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in network expenses, including professional fees, salaries, wages and benefits, as well as, to decreases in fleet expenses. Wholesale The operations of our wholesale segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Private line services (including special access). Demand for our private line services continues to increase, despite our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors could negatively impact our wholesale segment, we ultimately believe the bandwidth consumption growth in our fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access services provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain; Access and local services revenues. Our access and local services revenues have been and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected by technological migration, industry consolidation, regulation and rate reductions. For example, wholesale consumers are substituting cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued access revenue loss. We expect these factors will continue to adversely impact our wholesale segment; Switched access revenues. We believe that changes related to the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") adopted by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") on October 27, 2011 will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive in our wholesale segment. Conversely, the FCC instated an access recovery charge that allows us to recover the majority of these lost revenues directly from end users in our Consumer and Business segments; Long-distance services revenues. Wholesale long-distance revenues continue to decline as a result of customer migration to more technologically advanced services, price compression, declining demand for traditional voice services and industry consolidation; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. We also expect our wholesale segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 29 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the results of operations from our wholesale segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 573 582 (9) (2)% Legacy services 334 380 (46) (12)% Total revenues 907 962 (55) (6)% Segment expenses: Direct 30 48 (18) (38)% Allocated 244 264 (20) (8)% Total expenses 274 312 (38) (12)% Segment income $ 633 650 (17) (3)% Segment margin percentage 69.8% 67.6% Segment Income Declines in both strategic and legacy services revenues largely contributed to a decrease in our wholesale segment income for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. The decrease in segment expenses did not fully offset the declines in segment revenue for the comparable periods. Segment Revenues Wholesale revenues decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. This decrease reflects lower revenues from both legacy and strategic services. The decrease in legacy services revenues reflects continuing declines in access, long-distance and local services volumes and revenues due to the substitution of cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services. Decline in strategic services revenues was due to decreases in our private line and special access services revenues, partially offset by an increase in Ethernet revenues. Segment Expenses Wholesale expenses declined for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to decreases in salaries, wages and benefits as a result of reductions in headcount, lower bad debt expense, lower access costs and decreased allocated expenses. Allocated expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in network expenses, including professional fees, salaries, wages and benefits, as well as, to decreases in fleet expenses, facility costs and allocations of salaries and wages allocated from the consumer and business segments. 30 Table of Contents Data Hosting The operations of our data hosting segment could be impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Colocation. Colocation is designed for clients seeking data center space and power for their server and networking equipment needs. Our data centers provide our clients around the world with a secure, high-powered, purpose-built location for their IT equipment. We anticipate continued pricing pressure for these services as wholesale vendors continue to expand their enterprise colocation operations; however, we believe that our data center expansion strategy can help mitigate these pricing challenges. Managed hosting. Managed hosting services provide a fully managed solution for a customer's IT infrastructure and network needs, and include dedicated and cloud hosting services, utility and computing storage, consulting and managed security services. We expect increasing pricing pressure on the managed hosting business from competing cloud computing offerings. However, we remain focused on expanding our managed hosting business, specifically in our cloud service offerings, which we believe is a key to growth. We believe that we have continued to strengthen our cloud position in the market by adding differentiating features to our cloud products. Network services. Network services are comprised of our hosting area network products supporting colocation and managed hosting service offerings. Network services also include managed VPN and bandwidth services. Segment income for these services has been relatively flat due to pricing pressures on VPN and bandwidth services, offset by increases in hosting area network services. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. The following table summarizes the operating results of data hosting for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to March 31, 2012: Segment revenues $ 334 310 24 8% Segment expenses 264 231 33 14% Segment income $ 70 79 (9) (11)% Segment margin percentage 21.0% 25.5% Segment Income Segment income declined for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. The decline was due to increased investment in growth programs such as savvisdirect colocation expansion. Segment Revenues Data hosting revenues increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to growth in colocation and the impact of the acquisition of CIBER ITO Services ("CIBER") which is reported in managed hosting services. 31 Table of Contents Segment Expenses Data hosting expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. The increase is due to higher salaries and wages costs from the CIBER acquisition and our investment in cloud growth initiatives via savvisdirect. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At March 31, 2013, we held cash and cash equivalents of $476 million and we had $1.925 billion available under our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility (referred to as our "Credit Facility", which is described further below). At March 31, 2013, cash and cash equivalents of $62 million were held in foreign bank accounts for the purpose of funding our foreign operations. Due to various factors, access to foreign cash is generally more restrictive than access to domestic cash. Excluding cash used for acquisitions, we have generally relied on cash generated by operations and our Credit Facility to fund our operating and capital expenditures and other cash requirements. At March 31, 2013, we had a working capital deficit of $708 million, reflecting current liabilities of $4.6 billion and current assets of $3.9 billion, compared to a working capital deficit of $982 million at December 31, 2012. The change in our working capital position is primarily due to a $265 million increase in cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012. We anticipate that our existing cash balances and net cash provided by operating activities will enable us to meet our other current obligations, fund capital expenditures and pay dividends to our shareholders. We also may draw on our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity if and when necessary. We currently expect to continue our current practice of paying quarterly cash dividends in respect of our common stock, subject to our board's discretion to modify or terminate this practice at any time. See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Credit Facilities Our $2.0 billion amended and restated revolving credit facility matures in April 2017. The Credit Facility has 18 lenders, with commitments ranging from $2.5 million to $181 million and allows us to obtain revolving loans and to issue up to $400 million of letters of credit, which upon issuance will reduce the amount available for other extensions of credit. Interest is assessed on borrowings using either the LIBOR or the base rate (each as defined in the Credit Facility) plus an applicable margin between 1.25% and 2.25% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.25% and 1.25% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are currently guaranteed by three of our subsidiaries. At March 31, 2013, we had $75 million in borrowings and no letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility. Under the Credit Facility, we, and our indirect subsidiary, Qwest Corporation, must maintain a debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined in our Credit Facility) ratio of not more than 4.0:1.0 and 2.85:1.0, respectively, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter for the four quarters then ended. The Credit Facility also contains a negative pledge covenant, which generally requires us to secure equally and ratably any advances under the Credit Facility if we pledge assets or permit liens on our property for the benefit of other debtholders. The Credit Facility also has a cross payment default provision, and the Credit Facility and certain of our debt securities also have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. To the extent that our EBITDA is reduced by cash settlements or judgments, including in respect of any of the matters discussed in Note 9Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report, our debt to EBITDA ratios under certain debt agreements could be adversely 32 Table of Contents affected. This could reduce our financing flexibility due to potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements or, in certain circumstances, could result in a default under certain provisions of such agreements. We also maintain a revolving letter of credit facility which enables us to provide letters of credit under terms that may be more favorable than those under the Credit Facility. At March 31, 2013, our outstanding letters of credit totaled $120 million under this facility, which is terminable at will by either party. Stock Repurchase Program In February 2013, the Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $2 billion of our outstanding common stock. As of March 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.614 billion in stock remaining available for repurchase under the Stock Repurchase Program (excluding 0.9 million common shares that, as of March 31, 2013, we had agreed to purchase under the program for $32 million in transactions that settled early in the second quarter of 2013). As of May 7, 2013, we had repurchased 18.5 million common shares for an aggregate market price of $653 million and an average purchase price of $35.37 per share. The repurchased common stock has been retired. We expect to continue executing this share repurchase program primarily in open market transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors. For additional information on this program, see Item 2 of Part II of this report. Debt and Other Financing Arrangements Approximately $750 million of Qwest Corporation floating rate senior notes will mature on June 15, 2013. In addition, approximately $59 million of Embarq 6.875% notes and $50 million of Embarq 6.750% notes will mature on July 15, 2013 and August 15, 2013, respectively. Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to issue debt securities from time to time in the future to refinance a substantial portion of our maturing debt, including issuing QC debt securities to refinance its maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned to us and QC by credit rating agencies, among others factors. Following our announcement on February 13, 2013 of changes in our capital allocation plans, two credit agencies downgraded CenturyLink's debt credit ratings, and one credit agency downgraded QC's debt credit rating. As of the date of this report, the credit ratings for the senior unsecured debt of CenturyLink, Inc. and Qwest Corporation were as follows: Standard & Poor's BB BBB- Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Ba2 Baa3 Fitch Ratings BB+ BBB- The CenturyLink downgrades are expected to raise our borrowing costs and could under certain circumstances limit our access to the capital markets. Additional downgrades of CenturyLink's senior unsecured debt ratings could under certain circumstances incrementally increase the cost of our borrowing under the Credit Facility or require us to add a couple of additional subsidiary guarantors thereunder. For further discussion of the potential impacts of additional downgrades of the credit ratings relating to us, QC or any of our other subsidiaries, see "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of this report. 33 Table of Contents Future Contractual Obligations For information regarding our estimated future contractual obligations, see the MD&A discussion included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth, operating, productivity, expense or service impacts) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations. We estimate our total 2013 capital expenditures to be approximately $2.8 billion to $3.0 billion. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as video, broadband and managed hosting services. For more information on capital spending, see Items 1 and 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. We have accepted approximately $35 million of the $90 million available to us from Phase 1 of the FCC's Connect America Fund ("CAF") established by Congress to help telecommunications carriers defray the cost of providing broadband access to remote customers. We intend to use the funds to deploy broadband service for up to 45,000 homes in unserved rural areas principally in Colorado, Minnesota, New Mexico, Virginia and Washington. We determined that restrictions on the use of these funds have made acceptance of additional CAF funds uneconomical. We have, however, filed with the FCC a waiver application, which, if granted, would allow us to deploy broadband services with CAF funds to approximately 60,000 more homes in high-cost unserved areas in our markets. We received approximately $32 million in CAF funds during 2012 and received the remaining $3 million in January 2013. The FCC is expected to offer a new round of Phase 2 CAF funding later this year. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans. The accounting funding status of our plans is measured annually at December 31. As of December 31, 2012, the accounting unfunded status of our qualified and non-qualified pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations was $2.6 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. See Note 5Employee Benefits to the consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information about our pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plans are paid through a trust that holds all plan assets. In the first quarter of 2013, we made cash contributions to the trust totaling $147 million. Based on current laws and circumstances, we do not expect any further required contributions to the plans for the remainder of 2013. The amount of required contributions to our plans in 2014 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest rates, demographic experience, changes in plans benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. Several trusts hold assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of the trust assets was $626 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health 34 Table of Contents care costs for approximately four years. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trusts as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected four year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimated annual long-term rate of return on the pension plans trust assets is 7.50% and for the post-retirement plans trust assets ranges from 6.00% to 7.50% based on the assets currently held; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. Historical Information The following table summarizes our cash flow activities: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,387 1,583 (196) Net cash used in investing activities (584) (663) (79) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (538) 481 1,019 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to changes in retirement benefits, accounts receivable, other current assets and liabilities and our provision for bad debt, which were partially offset by changes in accounts payable. Our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I in this report provide information about the components of net income and differences between net income and net cash provided by operating activities. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. Net cash used in investing activities decreased primarily due to the sale of certain wireless spectrum assets. Net cash used in financing activities increased primarily due to a decrease of approximately $1.0 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012, as well as cash deployed under our February 2013 Stock Repurchase Program. The increase was partially offset by a net decrease of $325 million in the amount of our payments on our long-term debt and credit facility and a decrease in dividends paid of $113 million. On March 21, 2013, CenturyLink issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Notes due 2020 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of approximately $988 million. The Notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of par or a "make-whole" rate specified in the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, at any time on or prior to April 1, 2016, we may redeem up to 35% of the principal amount of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 105.625% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings. Under certain circumstances, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at a price of 101% of their aggregate principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, we repurchased 11.1 million shares of the company's outstanding common stock in the open market. These shares were repurchased for an aggregate market price of $386 million, or an average purchase price of $34.62 per share. The repurchased common stock has been retired. 35 Table of Contents Certain Matters Related to Acquisitions Qwest's pre-existing debt obligations consisted primarily of debt securities issued by QCII and two of its subsidiaries while Savvis' remaining long-term debt obligations consist primarily of capital leases, all of which are now included in our consolidated debt balances. The indentures governing Qwest's debt securities contain customary covenants that restrict the ability of Qwest or its subsidiaries from making certain payments and investments, granting liens and selling or transferring assets. Based on current circumstances, we do not anticipate that these covenants will significantly restrict our ability to manage cash balances or transfer cash between entities within our consolidated group of companies as needed. In accounting for the Qwest acquisition, we recorded Qwest's debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $12.292 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value of Qwest's debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $693 million, which was recorded as a premium. The table below summarizes the portions of this premium recognized as a reduction to interest expense or extinguished during the periods indicated: Amortized $ 17 240 257 Extinguished (1) 235 235 Total premiums recognized $ 17 475 492 (1) See "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements" for more information The remaining premium of $201 million as of March 31, 2013 will reduce interest expense in future periods, unless otherwise extinguished. Net Operating Loss Carryforwards We are currently using federal net operating losses ("NOLs") to offset a portion of our federal taxable income. We expect to deplete a significant portion of these NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes by 2014, and substantially all of these tax benefits by 2015. Once our NOLs are fully utilized, we expect that the amounts of our cash flows dedicated to the payment of federal taxes will increase substantially. The amounts of those payments will depend upon many factors, including future earnings, tax law changes and future tax circumstances. For additional information, see "Risk FactorsRisks Relating to our Recent Acquisitions" appearing in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Other Matters CenturyLink has cash management arrangements with certain of its principal subsidiaries, in which substantial portions of the subsidiaries' cash is regularly advanced to CenturyLink. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, these advances are eliminated as intercompany transactions. Although CenturyLink periodically repays these advances to fund the subsidiaries' cash requirements throughout the year, at any given point in time we may owe a substantial sum to our subsidiaries under these advances, which are not recognized on our consolidated balance sheets. We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material effect on our financial position. See Note 9Commitment and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in 36 Table of Contents Item 1 of Part I of this report for the current status of such legal proceedings, including matters involving Qwest. Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations and fluctuations in certain foreign currencies. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of March 31, 2013, we had no such instruments outstanding. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and implements strategies to manage the exposure. There were no material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates for the three months ended March 31, 2013, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in hedging or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements, (ii) disclosed in Note 15Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 or (iii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" above. Other Information Our website is www.centurylink.com. We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. Certain of the industry and market data (such as the size of certain markets and our position within these markets) used throughout this report are based on independent industry publications, government publications, reports by market research firms or other published independent sources. Some market data and statistical information are also based on our good faith estimates, which are derived from our review of internal surveys, as well as the independent sources listed above. This information may prove to be inaccurate because of the method by which we obtain some of the data for our estimates or because this information cannot always be verified with certainty due to the limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and other limitations and uncertainties. As a result, although we believe these sources are reliable, we have not independently verified the information and cannot guarantee its accuracy and completeness. In addition to historical information, this MD&A includes certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, 37 Table of Contents many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including the outcome of regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment and net neutrality); our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions; our ability to successfully integrate recently-acquired operations into our incumbent operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from our recent acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; our ability to use net operating loss carryovers of Qwest in projected amounts; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demands for high-speed broadband service; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us; our ability to pay common share dividends in accordance with past practices, which may be affected by changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in this report (including in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report) or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business and our recent acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, as updated and supplemented by our subsequent SEC reports, including this report. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason. 38 Table of Contents