Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factor Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, that could cause our actual results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: General economic factors the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and responsive measures; Operational factors changes in technology and intense competition; our reliance on a limited number of customers; our ability to sell to a significant customer; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers; our ability to manufacture our products; our leverage in negotiations with large customers; order cancellations, reductions or delays in delivery schedules by our customers or distributors; any delay in collecting or failure to collect accounts receivable; defects in our products; our international operations; our strategic transactions; our implementation strategy for our acquisitions; changes in demand and customer requirements for our products; our international tax structure; fluctuations in foreign currency; our ability to hire and retain key personnel; the effects of immigration policy on our ability to hire and retain employees; our ability to protect our product and proprietary rights; our reliance on licensed third-party technology; the unpredictability of our results of operations; actual or perceived security or privacy breaches, as well as defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our technology and that of third-party providers; factors relating to our intellectual property rights as well as the intellectual property rights of others; 13 Table of Contents Regulatory and Legal factors our ability to obtain government authorization to export our products; the threat of tariffs; changes in tax laws; litigation risks; changes in laws and the adoption and interpretation of administrative rules and regulations, including U.S. and international customs and export regulations; intellectual property litigation; our ability to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting; Financing and Transactional Risks our future capital requirements; our ability to service our current and future debt; Governance Risks and Risks related to Ownership of our Capital Stock dilution related to our 2024 Notes and 2026 Notes; provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult; exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws; the volatility of the trading price of our common stock; and our intention not to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Risks Related to Our Business Our business operations, financial performance, results of operations, financial position and the achievement of our strategic objectives has been affected, and may be materially and adversely affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Our business, results of operations and financial performance have been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health responses, such as shelter-in-place orders, social distancing protocols, and travel restrictions in many of the countries and regions in which we have operations or manufacturing partners. As a result of the COVID-19 outbreak around the world, beginning in early February 2020, Lumentum implemented certain travel restrictions, temporarily closed or limited the number of employees permitted onsite in our offices and manufacturing sites in several heavily impacted locations, and implemented work-from-home rules at most of our facilities. These measures as well as others taken by us and others have caused, and may continue to cause, disruption and delays in our ability to operate and manufacture, test and assemble products in our internal facilities, particularly in the United States, China, Thailand and the United Kingdom. Our ability to continue certain research and development activities has also been limited, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to develop new products and technologies on the timelines we previously anticipated. In addition, we have experienced disruption and delays with our manufacturing partners, for example in Malaysia, limitations were imposed at certain times on which businesses could operate and the amount of the workforce permitted to perform manufacturing operations. These and other limitations have, in some instances, been reinstated, and could be reinstated again, if the number of COVID-19 cases in particular regions increases and there is considerable uncertainty regarding the duration of such limitations and potential future restrictions, and complexity in ensuring compliance. Our supply chain has also been affected by measures implemented in response to the pandemic and in certain cases, our suppliers have not had the materials, capacity or capability to supply us with the components necessary for continuing our manufacturing operations or development efforts at our normal levels, such as the impacts we are experiencing from the shortages in semiconductor components. There are also restrictions and delays on logistics, such as air cargo carriers, as well as increased logistics costs due to limited capacity and high demands for freight forwarders. Similarly, our customers have also experienced, and could continue to experience, disruptions in their operations, which may result in reduced, delayed, or canceled orders, and has increased collection risks, 14 Table of Contents which may adversely affect our results of operations. These disruptions, delays and restrictions have adversely affected our revenue and results of operations and could be extended or further restrictions could be put in place in other regions, which would materially and adversely impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and financial performance depends on many factors that are not within our control, including, but not limited, to: governmental, business and individuals actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic (including restrictions on travel and transport and workforce pressures); the impact of the pandemic and actions taken in response on global and regional economies, travel, and economic activity; the availability of federal, state, local or non-U.S. funding programs; general economic uncertainty in key global markets and financial market volatility; global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; and the pace of recovery when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides (including the availability of treatments and vaccines and the impact of new variants on recovery). In addition, the global economic volatility has significantly impacted the foreign exchange markets, and the currencies of various countries in which we operate and in which we have significant volume of local-currency denominated expenses have seen significant volatility. The magnitude of the impact of COVID-19 on our business operations remains uncertain and difficult to predict, and the situation remains highly dynamic. We have experienced and will continue to experience in subsequent periods, disruptions to our business that will adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changing technology and intense competition require us to continuously innovate while controlling product costs, and our failure to do so may result in decreased revenues and profitability. The markets in which we operate are dynamic and complex, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver both our current product offerings and new products and technologies on time and at acceptable prices to our customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements, continued price pressures and a constantly evolving industry. Historically, these pricing pressures have led to a continued decline of average selling prices across our business. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and the accurate prediction of technology and market trends, and is further impacted by the disruptions caused by COVID-19 on our ability to continue with research and development activities. The introduction of new products also often requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, the benefit of which may not be realized if we are not successful in the production of such products or if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of new product introductions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. We also cannot assure you that potential markets for our new products will materialize on the timelines we anticipate, or at all, or that our technology will meet our customers specifications. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, deployment and market acceptance of new and enhanced features and products that meet our customers current and future needs. The market for optical communications products in particular has matured over time and these products have increasingly become subject to commoditization. Both legacy competitors as well as new entrants, predominantly Asia-based competitors, have intensified market competition in recent years leading to pricing pressure. To preserve our revenues and product margin structures, we remain reliant on an integrated customer and market approach that anticipates end customer needs as Telecom and Datacom requirements evolve. We also must continue to develop more advanced, differentiated products that command a premium with customers, while conversely continuing to focus on streamlining product costs for established legacy products. If we fail to continue to develop enhanced or new products, or over time are unable to adjust our cost structure to continue to competitively price more mature products, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales; and the majority of our customers do not have contractual purchase commitments. We have consistently relied on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales and in certain of our markets, such as 3D sensing and commercial lasers, this customer concentration is particularly acute. We expect that this customer concentration will continue in the future, and we expect that our growth prospects will continue to depend in part on a small number of customers. Many of our customers purchase products under purchase orders or under contracts that do not contain volume or long-term purchase commitments. Some customers provide us with their expected forecasts for our products several months in advance, but these customers may decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place, including on short notice, or may experience financial difficulty which affects their ability to pay for products, particularly in light of the impacts of COVID-19 on their businesses and markets, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a limited number of large customers. In addition, changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project 15 Table of Contents prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased or timing of purchases) of our key customers, or any real or perceived quality issues related to the products that we sell to such customers, could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Our relationships with large customers may also be harmed to the extent the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic prevent us from being able to satisfy their orders in a timely manner. There are also continuing trade tensions, including an uncertain regulatory environment, in the U.S. and countries in Asia, which could materially impact our sales to key customers in these regions. Further, we may be required to purchase raw materials, increase production capacity or make other changes to our business to accommodate certain large customers. If forecasted orders do not materialize, we may need to reduce investment in R&D activities, we may fail to optimize our manufacturing capacity, we may incur liabilities with our suppliers for reimbursement of capital expenditures, or we may have excess inventory. In addition, if we incur expenses in response to forecasted demand and do not have a corresponding increase in revenue, our profitability may suffer. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to sell our products to a significant customer has been restricted. On August 17, 2020, the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce (BIS) issued final rules that further restricted access by Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. to items produced domestically and abroad from U.S. technology and software. The final rules prevent us from selling certain products to Huawei entities without a license issued subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). Further, even if there are products unaffected by the rule or for which we are able to obtain an export license, Huawei may not be able to source products from other suppliers due to the final rules, which could impact Huaweis demand for our products. Under the current regulatory regime, our business with Huawei has been and will continue to be more limited than it was in the past. For example, we have been unable to supply certain additional products and may be limited or unable to work with Huawei on future product developments while Huawei remains on the Entity List, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Huawei may seek to obtain similar or substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions, or to develop similar or substitute products themselves. We cannot be certain what additional actions the U.S. government may take with respect to Huawei or other entities in China or other countries, including additional changes to the Entity List restrictions, export regulations, tariffs or other trade restrictions. We are unable to predict the duration of the restrictions enacted in May 2019 through August 2020, including the restrictions on Huaweis access to foreign-made chips made using U.S. technology which could have a long-term adverse effect on our business. The U.S. government has added other customers of ours to the Entity List, such as FiberHome Technologies Group in May 2020, and may continue to do so or otherwise restrict our ability to ship products which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also manufacture customized products for Huawei, and therefore may be unable to sell certain finished goods inventory to alternative customers, or may be unable to utilize such manufacturing capabilities for products for alternative customers, which may result in further excess and obsolete inventory charges and/or underutilized capacity charges in future periods. In addition, we sell various non-customized products to Huawei in which Huawei represents a significant portion of the related products demand. We have taken charges, and may have significant future charges, for common components which become excess as a result of the inability to sell to Huawei. Future charges related to trade restrictions could be caused by either additional regulatory restrictions enacted with respect to Huawei, or revisions to our estimates of the impact from already-enacted restrictions. Additional charges may also occur with respect to customized products that we manufacture for other customers in the event that such customers were to be added to the Entity List or otherwise if our ability to sell to such customers were restricted. This trade uncertainty may cause delays or cancellations, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results. We believe this trade uncertainty has caused and may in the future cause delays or cancellations, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results. Intense competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues, margins and market share. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems, components and laser diodes are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international public and private companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. Our competitors include II-VI, Acacia Communications (which was acquired by Cisco in March 2021), Accelink, ams AG, Broadcom Inc., Coherent (which has entered into a merger agreement with II-VI), Fujitsu Optical Components, Furukawa Electric, IPG Photonics, Mitsubishi Electric, MKS Instruments, Molex, Neophotonics, O-Net Communications, Sumitomo Electric Industries, and Trumpf Group. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors, particularly, in light of increasing 16 Table of Contents consolidation. Our competitors may continue to enter markets or gain or retain market share through introduction of new or improved products or with aggressive low pricing strategies that may impact the efficacy of our approach. Additionally, the merger or consolidation of significant competitors, for example, II-VIs acquisition of Finisar in September of 2019 and its pending acquisition of Coherent, the acquisition of Acacia Communications by Cisco in March 2021, and the acquisition of OSRAM by AMS in December 2019, may result in competitors with greater resources, enable them to offer a different market approach, or a lower cost structure through economies of scale or other efficiencies that we may be unable to match and which may intensify competition in the various markets. Further, our competitors may seek to vertically integrate by buying suppliers that also supply products or components to us, which could enable them to further reduce prices, or could increase our costs. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We derive a majority of our revenue from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. In addition, we have extensive international manufacturing capabilities through third-party contract manufacturers, as well as through our own international facilities, with employees engaged in R&D, administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities. As a result of our international operations, in addition to similar risks we face in our U.S. operations, we are affected by economic, business, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: impacts related to business disruptions and restrictions related to COVID-19; changes in general IT spending; less effective protection of intellectual property; the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes in or limitations imposed by trade protection laws or other regulatory orders or requirements in the United States or in other countries, including tariffs, sanctions, or other costs or requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries or increase the cost to do so, including government action to restrict our ability to sell to foreign customers where sales of products may require export licenses (such as the U.S. Department of Commerces addition of Huawei to the Entity List in May 2019, the addition of FiberHome in May 2020, amendment to the Foreign-Produced Direct Product Rule in August 2020 and the prohibition of export and sale of certain products to ZTE Corporation in early 2018) and increased tariffs on various products that have been proposed by the U.S. government and other non-U.S. governments; the imposition of sanctions on customers in China may cause those customers to seek domestic alternatives to our products, including developing alternatives internally, and our customers demand for our products could be impacted by their inability to obtain other materials subject to sanctions. For example, sanctions on sales to certain parties of US semiconductors and semiconductor equipment has caused a delay in 5G deployment in China while the affected companies seek alternative solutions, which has reduced the demand for our products from some of our Chinese customers; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; potential global or regional recession as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related responses of individuals, governments, private industry; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; political developments of foreign nations, including Brexit and political developments in Hong Kong and the potential impact such developments or further actions could have on our customers in Hong Kong; and the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns as well as our contract and internal manufacturing: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, unfavorable events that affect foreign currencies on an absolute or relative basis, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. 17 Table of Contents Additionally, our business is impacted by fluctuations in local economies and currencies. The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting global economic volatility has significantly impacted the foreign exchange markets, and the currencies of various countries in which we operate and have significant volume of local-currency denominated expenses have seen significant volatility. We expect such volatility to continue, which could negatively impact our results by making our non-U.S. operations more expensive when reported in US dollars, primarily due to the costs of payroll. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the United States or other countries in which we operate. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationships with customers and suppliers, financial reporting problems, fines and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the above risks related to our international operations, we also face risks related to health epidemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. An outbreak of a contagious disease, and other adverse public health developments, particularly in Asia, could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. The effects could include restrictions on our ability to travel to support our sites in Asia or our customers located there, disruptions in our ability to distribute products, and/or temporary closures of our facilities in Asia or the facilities of our suppliers or customers and their contract manufacturers. Disruption to the operations of our suppliers or customers and their contract manufacturers due to COVID-19 have impacted and will likely continue to impact our sales and operating results. For additional information regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our business, see the risk factor above titled Our business operations, financial performance, results of operations, financial position and the achievement of our strategic objectives may be materially and adversely affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The manufacturing of our products may be adversely affected if we are unable to manufacture certain products in our manufacturing facilities or if our contract manufacturers and suppliers fail to meet our production requirements. We manufacture some of our finished good products as well as some of the components that we provide to our contract manufacturers in our China, Japan, Thailand, U.K., and San Jose, California manufacturing facilities. For some of the components and finished good products, we are the sole manufacturer. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, and issues are often difficult to detect and correct. From time to time we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields in our manufacturing facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of our products and inability to meet customer demand. In addition, if we experience problems with our manufacturing facilities or are unable to continue operations at any of these sites, including as a result of social, geopolitical, environmental or health factors, damage caused by natural disasters, or other problems, including pandemics or widespread health epidemics such as COVID-19 impacts, it would be costly and require a long period of time to move the manufacture of these components and finished good products to a different facility or contract manufacturer which could then result in interruptions in supply, and would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing is heavily concentrated in regions in Asia, and we would be severely impacted if there were further escalation of COVID-19 or related restrictions imposed by governments or private industry in that region. We also rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain products. For many products, a particular contract manufacturer may be the sole source of the finished good products. We depend on these manufacturers to meet our production and capacity requirements and to provide quality products to our customers. If operations at these contract manufacturers is adversely impacted, such as by natural disasters, or restrictions due to COVID-19 or any resulting economic impact to their business, this would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to control the quality of products produced by contract manufacturers has and may in the future be impaired due to COVID-19 disruptions, and quality issues might not be resolved in a timely manner. Additionally, if our contract manufacturers continue experiencing disruptions or discontinue operations, we may be required to identify and qualify alternative manufactures, which is expensive and time consuming. If we are required to change or qualify a new contract manufacturer, this would likely cause business disruptions and could harm our existing customer relationships. In addition, despite rigorous testing for quality, both by us and the contract manufacturers to whom we sell products, we may receive and ship defective products. We may incur significant costs to correct defective products which could result in the loss of future sales and revenue, indemnification costs or costs to replace or repair the defective products, litigation and damage 18 Table of Contents to our reputation and customer relations. Defective products may also cause diversion of management attention from our business and product development efforts. Additionally, our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers may be affected by natural disasters, including a global pandemic such as COVID-19, changes in legal requirements, labor strikes and other labor unrest and economic, political or other forces that are beyond our control. For example, in the past one of our former contract manufacturers experienced a labor strike which threatened the contract manufacturers ability to fulfill its product commitments to us and, in turn, our ability to fulfill our obligations to our customers. There is also an increased focus on corporate social and environmental responsibility in our industry. As a result, a number of our customers may adopt policies that include social and environmental responsibility provisions that their suppliers should comply with. These provisions may be difficult and expensive to comply with, given the complexity of our supply chain. We may be unable to cause our suppliers or contract manufactures to comply with these provisions which may adversely affect our relationships with customers. In addition, for a variety of reasons, including changes in circumstances at our contract manufacturers, restrictions or inability to operate due to COVID-19, or regarding our own business strategies, we may choose or be required to transfer the manufacturing of certain products to other manufacturing sites, including to our own manufacturing facilities. As a result of such transfers, our contract manufacturers may prioritize other customers or otherwise be unable or unwilling to meet our demand. There also may be delays with the transfer of manufacturing equipment and successfully setting up that equipment at the transfer sites and training new operators. If such transfers are unsuccessful or take a longer period of time than expected, it could result in interruptions in supply and supply chain, and would likely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers are not cancellable which may impact our results of operations if customer forecasts driving these purchase commitments do not materialize and we are unable to sell the products to other customers. Alternatively, our contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our demand which would inhibit our ability to meet our customers demands and maintain or grow our revenues. Furthermore, it could be costly and require a long period of time to move products from one contract manufacturer to another which could result in interruptions in supply and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain of our contract manufacturers are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with Chinese laws and regulations and U.S. laws, regulations and policies with respect to China, such as those related to import and export policies, tariffs, taxation and intellectual property. Chinese laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and if our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain or retain the requisite legal permits or otherwise to comply with Chinese legal requirements, we may be forced to obtain products from other manufacturers or to make other operational changes, including transferring our manufacturing to another manufacturer or to our own manufacturing facilities. In addition, many of our products are sourced from suppliers based outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. Uncertainty with respect to our suppliers abilities due to COVID-19 impacts, tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries has recently increased. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of tariffs on imported products, for example, tariffs on the import of certain products manufactured in China, could increase our product and product-related costs or require us to seek alternative suppliers, either of which could result in decreased sales or increased product and product-related costs. Any such developments could have a material impact on our ability to meet our customers expectations and may materially impact our operating results and financial condition. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer. Certain of our customers do not purchase products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with certain of our customers. Some of our customers require that our manufacturing lines pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards. We may encounter quality control issues as a result of setting up new manufacturing lines in our facilities, relocating our manufacturing lines or introducing new products to fill production. We may be unable to obtain, or we may experience delays in obtaining, customer qualification of our manufacturing lines. If we introduce new contract manufacturing partners and move any production lines from existing internal or external facilities, the new production lines will likely need to be re-qualified with our customers. Any delays or failure to obtain qualifications would harm our reputation, operating results, and customer relationships. 19 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials, packages and components, and any failure or delay by these suppliers in meeting our requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase raw materials, packages and components from a limited number of suppliers, who are often small and specialized. Additionally, some of our suppliers are our sole sources for certain materials, equipment and components. We depend on the timely and continued supply and quality of the materials, packages and components that our suppliers supply to us. We have not entered into long-term agreements with many of these suppliers. We do not have a guarantee of supply from these suppliers and as a result, there is no assurance that we would be able to secure the equipment or components that we require, in sufficient quantity, quality and on reasonable terms. Our business and results of operations have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by this dependency. Specific concerns we periodically encounter with our sole suppliers or limited number of suppliers include receipt of defective parts or contaminated materials, stoppages or delays of supply, insufficient resources to supply our requirements, substitution of more expensive or less reliable materials, increases in the price of supplies, and an inability to obtain reduced pricing from our suppliers in response to competitive pressures. Additionally, we have experienced supply constraints due to both constrained manufacturing capacity, as well as component parts shortages, in particular semiconductor components, as our vendors were also facing supply constraints, and increased logistics costs due to air travel and transport restrictions that limited the availability of flights on which we ship our products. These challenges resulted in extended lead-times to our customers and had a negative impact on our ability to recognize associated revenue and has resulted in and may continue to result in an increase in accelerated ordering for certain of our products. We continue to work with our suppliers to ensure that we are able to continue manufacturing and distributing our products and in the quantities requested by our customers; however, we continue to experience disruption to our supply chain that could impact our operations. Any disruption in the supply of the raw materials, packaging or components used in the manufacture and delivery of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We contract with a number of large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies that have considerable bargaining power, which may require us to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. Large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies comprise a significant portion of our customer base. These customers generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers, including us. As we seek to expand our sales to existing customers and acquire new customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are favorable to our customers and that may affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, large customers have increased buying power and ability to require onerous terms in our contracts with them, including pricing, warranties, and indemnification terms. If we are unable to satisfy the terms of these contracts, it could result in liabilities of a material nature, including litigation, damages, additional costs, loss of market share and loss of reputation. Additionally, the terms these large customers require, such as most-favored nation or exclusivity provisions, may impact our ability to do business with other customers and generate revenues from such customers. Our products may contain defects that could cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in loss of customers. Our products are complex and defects and quality issues are found from time to time. Networking products in particular frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties, which may contain defects. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and manufacturing resources, and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, or risk exposure to product liability suits, all of which would harm our business. The threat of increasing tariffs, particularly to goods traded between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Since the beginning of 2018, there has been rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding instituting tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials. More specifically, since 2018, the United States and China applied or proposed to apply tariffs to certain of each others exports, and we expect these actions to continue for the foreseeable future. The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the United States and China specifically carries the risk of negatively impacting overall economic conditions, which could have negative repercussions on our industry and our business. Furthermore, imposition of tariffs or new or revised export, import or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions, could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We face a number of risks related to our strategic transactions. We have in the past made several acquisitions, including our acquisition of Oclaro in December 2018, and we expect to continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions and strategic transactions. As we expand into new markets, we face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from new competitors, including existing companies with strong technological and sales positions in those markets. We may be unable to identify or complete prospective acquisitions for many reasons, including increasing competition from other potential acquirers, the effects of consolidation in our industries and potentially high valuations of acquisition candidates. Even if we do identify acquisitions or enter into agreements with respect to such acquisitions, we may not be able to complete the acquisition due to competition, regulatory requirements or restrictions or other reasons, as occurred with the termination of our merger agreement with Coherent in March 2021. In addition, applicable antitrust laws and other regulations may limit our ability to acquire targets or force us to divest an acquired business. If we are unable to identify suitable targets or complete acquisitions, our growth prospects may suffer, and we may not be able to realize sufficient scale and technological advantages to compete effectively in all markets. In connection with acquisitions, risks to us and our business include: diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business; unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions imposed upon the acquisition or transaction, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents, or fees that may be triggered upon a failure to consummate an acquisition or transaction for certain reasons; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; unanticipated changes in the acquired business, including due to regulatory action or changes in the operating results or financial condition of the business; the inability to retain and obtain required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; difficulties and costs in integrating the operations, technologies, products, IT and other systems, assets, facilities and personnel of the purchased businesses; loss of customers, suppliers or partners; and failure to consummate an acquisition resulting in negative publicity and impact on our stock price. We have in the past, and may in the future, divest or reduce our investment in certain businesses or product lines from time to time. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019, we completed the divestiture of our Datacom module business in Japan, and in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 we sold the assets associated with certain Lithium Niobate product lines manufactured by our San Donato, Italy site. Such divestitures involve risks, such as difficulty separating portions from our other businesses, distracting employees, incurring potential loss of revenue, negatively impacting margins, and potentially disrupting customer relationships. We may also incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impairment charges, or both. If we are unable to successfully manage any of these risks in relation to any future acquisitions or divestitures, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to successfully implement our acquisitions strategy or integrate acquired companies and personnel with existing operations. To the extent we are successful in making acquisitions, we may be unsuccessful in implementing our acquisitions strategy, or integrating acquired companies or product lines and personnel with existing operations, or the integration may be more difficult or more costly than anticipated. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: loss of customers, suppliers or partners; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process R&D; an acquisition or strategic transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments; 21 Table of Contents we may face unanticipated liabilities or our exposure for known contingencies and liabilities may exceed our estimates; insufficient net revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; unexpected losses of key employees of the acquired company, or inability to maintain our company culture; potential adverse effects on our ability to attract, recruit, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees; conforming the acquired companys standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, including integrating Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems and other key business applications; coordinating new product and process development; increasing complexity from combining operations; increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; difficulties in integrating operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; dilution of our current stockholders as a result of any issuance of equity securities as acquisition consideration; expenditure of cash that would otherwise be available to operate our business; and incurrence of indebtedness on terms that are unfavorable to us, limit our operational flexibility or that we are unable to repay. In addition, following an acquisition, we may have difficulty forecasting the financial results of the combined company and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if the effect of any acquisitions on our consolidated financial results is dilutive or is below the market's or financial analysts' expectations, or if there are unanticipated changes in the business or financial performance of the target company or the combined company. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may disrupt our business and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in demand and customer requirements for our products may reduce manufacturing yields, which could negatively impact our profitability. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs, introduction of new product lines and changes in contract manufacturers may reduce manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process, before, during or after manufacturing, results in lower gross margins from lower yields and additional rework costs. Additionally, the duration and impact of COVID-19 could exacerbate factors that affect our manufacturing yields. Any reduction in our manufacturing yields will adversely affect our gross margins and could have a material impact on our operating results. We may not be able to realize tax savings from our international tax structure, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We operate under a defined international structure. If substantial modifications to the international structure or the way we operate our business are made, such as if future acquisitions or divestitures occur, if changes in domestic and international tax laws negatively impact the structure, if we do not operate our business consistent with the structure and applicable tax provisions, if we fail to achieve our revenue and profit goals, or if the international structure or our application of arms-length principles to intercompany arrangements is successfully challenged by the U.S. or foreign tax authorities, our effective tax rate may increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. 22 Table of Contents Changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non income-based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant uncertainties exist with respect to the amount of our tax liabilities, including those arising from potential changes in laws in the countries in which we do business and the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws. Many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are under audit by various tax authorities, which often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. Any unfavorable resolution of these uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate. Increasingly, countries around the world are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations. For example, the Biden administration has proposed to increase the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 28% from 21%, increase the U.S. taxation of our international business operations and impose a global minimum tax. Such proposed changes, as well as regulations and legal decisions interpreting and applying these changes, may have significant impacts on our effective tax rate, cash tax expenses and net deferred tax assets in future periods. Other countries also continue to enact and consider enacting new laws, which could adversely affect us. The foregoing items could increase our future tax expense, could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of foreign earnings, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The income and non-income tax regimes we are subject to or operate under are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a set of internationally accepted tax rules as a part of a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (BEPS) Project aimed at tax avoidance, and that the roll-out of BEPS action steps by various jurisdictions may change aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. Our subsidiary in Thailand has been granted certain tax holidays by the Thailand government. If we dont meet the tax holiday requirements, income earned in Thailand will be subject to a higher statutory income tax rate, which may cause our effective tax rate to increase and reduce our liquidity and cash flow. Our operating results may be subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks with regard to our international operations which may affect our operating results. Since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although we price our products primarily in U.S. dollars, a portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. For example, a portion of our expenses are denominated in the U.K. pound sterling, Chinese yuan and Thai baht. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these currencies and other currencies in which we collect revenues and/or pay expenses could have a material effect on our future operating results. Recently, our exposure to foreign currencies has increased as our non-US manufacturing footprint has expanded. In addition to the acquisition of Oclaro, which increased our non-US manufacturing footprint, we continue to look for opportunities to leverage the lower cost of non-US manufacturing, including the United Kingdom, Thailand, and Japan. While these geographies are lower cost than the US and such concentration will in general lower our total cost to manufacture, this increase in concentration in non-US manufacturing will also increase the volatility of our results. If the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to certain other foreign currencies, it would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could raise the relative cost of our products to non-U.S. customers, especially as compared to foreign competitors, and could reduce demand. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on the exchange markets, which heightened this risk, and we expect this higher level of volatility in foreign exchange markets will likely continue. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including supporting the development and introduction of new products, addressing new markets, engaging in strategic transactions and partnerships, improving or expanding our operating infrastructure or acquiring complementary businesses and technologies. Investments, partnerships and acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties which 23 Table of Contents could materially and adversely affect our operating and financial results. In March 2017, we issued and sold a total of $450 million in aggregate principal amount of 2024 Notes, and in December 2019, we issued and sold a total of $1,050 million in aggregate principal amount of 2026 Notes. We may in the future engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. Any failure, disruption or security breach or incident of or impacting our information technology infrastructure or information management systems could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our business depends significantly on effective and efficient information management systems, and the reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure are essential to the health and expansion of our business. For example, the information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in managing our supply chain, monitoring customer accounts, and protecting our proprietary and confidential business information, plans, trade secrets, and intellectual property, among other things. In addition, these systems may also contain personal data or other confidential or otherwise protected information about our employees, our customers employees, or others. We must continue to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing requirements as well as evolving security standards and risks. In some cases, we may rely upon third-party providers of hosting, support and other services to meet our information technology requirements. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure, including our ERP system and other applications, any failure in the extension implementation or operation of this infrastructure, or any failure by our hosting and support partners or other third-party service providers in the performance of their services could materially harm our business. In addition, we have partnered with third parties to support our information technology systems and to help design, build, test, implement and maintain our information management systems. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity may also require transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems within our overall enterprise architecture, including our ERP system and other applications. Those systems that we acquire or that are used by acquired entities or businesses may also pose security risks of which we are unaware or unable to mitigate, particularly during the transition of these systems. Like other companies, we are subject to ongoing attempts by malicious actors, including through hacking, malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering, exploitation of internet-connected devices, and other attacks, to obtain unauthorized access or acquisition of confidential information or otherwise affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and information stored or otherwise processed on our systems. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the internet has experienced an increase in cyber threats in the form of phishing emails, malware attachments and malicious websites. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to social engineering and other cybersecurity attacks, and these attacks may become more prevalent while our workforce is distributed following shelter-in-place orders particularly given the increased remote access to our networks and systems as a result. Further, our third-party service providers may have been and may be in the future subject to such attacks or otherwise may suffer security breaches or incidents. In addition, actions by our employees, service providers, partners, contractors, or others, whether malicious or in error, could affect the security of our systems. Further, a breach of our information technology infrastructure or those of our third-party service providers could result in the misappropriation of intellectual property, business plans or trade secrets. Any failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers could result in unauthorized access to, or unauthorized use, acquisition, disclosure, or other processing of such information, and any actual or perceived security breach or incident could cause significant damage to our reputation and adversely impact our relationships with our customers. Additionally, while our security systems are designed to maintain the physical security of our facilities and information systems, accidental or willful security breaches or incidents or other unauthorized access by third parties to our facilities or our information systems could lead to unauthorized access to, or misappropriation, disclosure, or other processing of proprietary and confidential information. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage from these types of attacks or errors. In addition, our systems may be impacted by natural disasters, terrorism or other similar disruptions. Any system failure, disruption, accident or security breach or incident affecting us or our third-party providers could result in disruptions to our operations and loss of, or unauthorized access or damage to, our data or in inappropriate access to, or use, disclosure or otherwise processing of confidential information. Any actual or alleged disruption to, or security breach or incident affecting, our systems or those of our third-party partners could cause significant damage to our reputation, lead to theft or misappropriation of our protected intellectual property and trade secrets, result in claims, 24 Table of Contents investigations, regulatory proceedings, litigation, legal obligations or liability, affect our relationships with our customers, require us to bear significant costs in connection with remediating and otherwise responding to any disruption, breach, or incident, and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or mitigate damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches or incidents in the future. All of these costs, expenses, liability and other matters may not be covered adequately by insurance, and may result in an increase in our costs for insurance or insurance not being available to us on economically feasible terms, or at all. Insurers may also deny us coverage as to any future claim. Any of these results could harm our financial condition, business and reputation. Our revenues, operating results, and cash flows may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including unfavorable economic and market conditions, which makes predicting financial results difficult. Spending on optical communication and laser products is subject to cyclical and uneven fluctuations, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably. It can be difficult to predict the degree to which end-customer demand and the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of our OEM partners or other customers will affect our business in the future, particularly as we or they release new or enhanced products. While our fourth fiscal quarters are typically strongest, future buying patterns may differ from historical seasonality. Further, if our revenue mix changes, it may also cause results to differ from historical seasonality. Accordingly, our quarterly and annual revenues, operating results, cash flows, and other financial and operating metrics may vary significantly in the future, and the results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Adverse changes to and uncertainty in the global economy, particularly in light of the impacts of COVID-19 and a potential global recession resulting therefrom, may lead to decreased demand for our products, revenue fluctuations, and increased price competition for our products, and may increase the risk of excess and obsolete inventories and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. Declines or uncertainty in particular geographic regions, such as China or Europe, may impact IT-related spending generally, and consequently may lead to lower growth or a decline in our markets. The loss or delay of orders from any of our significant customers could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. The impact of economic challenges on the global financial markets could further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, the solvency of our key suppliers or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. Further, supply chain disruptions may lead to increased costs or may harm our ability to meet customer demand, which would harm our ability to recognize revenue as well as our margins. If economic conditions deteriorate or remain uncertain, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely impacted. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect our rights, our business would be materially harmed. We seek to protect our products and product roadmaps in part by developing and/or securing proprietary rights relating to those products, including patents, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, technology and other proprietary rights is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, therefore the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. Other companies may be investigating or developing technologies that are similar to our own. Additionally, there may be existing patents that we are unaware of, which could be pertinent to our business. It is not possible for us to know whether there are patent applications pending that our products might infringe upon since these applications are often not made publicly available until a patent is issued or published. It is possible that patents may not be issued from any of our pending applications or those we may file in the future and, if patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from making, using or selling products that are similar to ours, or such patents could be invalidated or ruled unenforceable. We do not own patents in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to offer identical products in countries where we do not have intellectual property protections. In addition, the laws of some territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Europe, Asia-Pacific or Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Additionally, we are currently a licensee for a number of third-party technologies including software and intellectual property rights from academic institutions, our competitors and others, and we are required to pay royalties to these licensors for the use thereof. In the future, if such licenses are unavailable or if we are unable to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to rely on such third-party technologies which could inhibit our development of new products, impede the sale of some of our current products, substantially increase the cost to provide these products to our customers, and could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. We also seek to protect our important trademarks by endeavoring to register them in certain countries. We have not registered our trademarks in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to use the same or confusingly similar marks in countries where we do not have trademark registrations. We have adopted Lumentum as a house trademark and trade name for our company, and are in the process of establishing rights in this name and brand. We have 25 Table of Contents also adopted the Lumentum logo as a house trademark for our company, and are in the process of establishing rights in this brand. Trademarks associated with the Lumentum brand have been registered in the United States or other jurisdictions, however, the efforts we take to maintain registration and protect trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, may not be sufficient or effective. Although we have registered marks associated with the Lumentum brand, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. There is the possibility that, despite efforts, the scope of the protection obtained for our trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, will be insufficient or that a registration may be deemed invalid or unenforceable in one or more jurisdictions throughout the world. Further, a breach of our information technology infrastructure could result in the misappropriation of intellectual property, business plans or trade secrets. Any failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers could result in unauthorized access or acquisition of such proprietary information, and any actual or perceived security breach could cause significant damage to our reputation and adversely impact our relationships with our customers. Our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. Lawsuits and allegations of patent infringement and violation of other intellectual property rights occur regularly in our industry. We have in the past received, and anticipate that we will receive in the future, notices from third parties claiming that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights, with two distinct sources of such claims becoming increasingly prevalent. First, large technology companies, including some of our customers and competitors, are seeking to monetize their patent portfolios and have developed large internal organizations that may approach us with demands to enter into license agreements. Second, patent-holding companies that do not make or sell products (often referred to as patent trolls) may claim that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. We respond to these claims in the course of our business operations. The litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. We may not be successful in such development, or such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Without such a license, or if we are the subject of an exclusionary order, our ability to make our products could be limited and we could be enjoined from future sales of the infringing product or products, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Additionally, we often indemnify our customers against claims of infringement related to our products and may incur significant expenses to defend against such claims. If we are unsuccessful defending against such claims, we may be required to indemnify our customers against any damages awarded. We also face risks that third parties may assert trademark infringement claims against us in one or more jurisdictions throughout the world related to our Lumentum and Oclaro brands and/or other trademarks and our exposure to these risks may increase as a result of acquisitions. The litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, trademark infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some or all of our products or services under the challenged trademark. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to alter our products, labels or packaging, license rights from third parties, or cease using the challenged trademark altogether, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We face certain litigation risks that could harm our business. We are now, and in the future we may become, subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of the complaints filed against us may not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore may be unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. While we may be unable to estimate the potential damages arising from such lawsuits, certain of them assert types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages or restrictions on or changes to our business. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Even if these lawsuits are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved lawsuits could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Litigation is generally costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The costs of defending these lawsuits have been significant in the past, will continue to be costly and may not be covered by our insurance policies. The defense of these lawsuits could also result in continued diversion of our managements time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. For additional discussion regarding litigation, see Part II, Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 26 Table of Contents Our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could potentially require us to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are also subject to laws and regulations with respect to personal data we collect from our employees, customers, and others. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent modifications and updates and require ongoing supervision. For example, the European Union adopted a General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that became effective in May 2018, and has established new, and in some cases more stringent, requirements for data protection in Europe, and which provides for substantial penalties for noncompliance. We have made certain modifications to our practices in order to comply with these or other requirements, and may be required to make additional modifications in order to comply with these or other requirements relating to privacy and data protection in the future, each of which may require us to incur significant costs and expenses. Additionally, California enacted legislation in June 2018, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which went into effect on January 1, 2020 and which, among other things, requires covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers. In November 2020, California passed the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which will go into effect on January 1, 2023. The CPRA amends and augments the CCPA by expanding individuals rights and the obligations of businesses that handle personal data. Similar legislation has been proposed or adopted in other states. Aspects of the CCPA, CPRA and these other state laws and regulations, as well as their enforcement, remain unclear. The effects of the CCPA, CPRA and these other state laws and regulations are potentially significant, however, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection continue to evolve in various jurisdictions, with existing laws and regulations subject to new and differing interpretations and new laws and regulations being proposed and adopted. It is possible that our practices may be deemed not to comply with those privacy and data protection legal requirements that apply to us now or in the future. Further, the United Kingdom left the European Union on January 31, 2020, with a transitional period that ended on December 31, 2020, commonly referred to as Brexit. The United Kingdom has implemented legislation similar to the GDPR, including the UK Data Protection Act and legislation similar to the GDPR referred to as the UK GDPR, which provides for substantial penalties, similar to the GDPR. Additionally, the relationship between the United Kingdom in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear following the United Kingdoms exit from the European Union, including with respect to regulation of data transfers between European Union member states and the United Kingdom. On June 28, 2021, the European Commission announced a decision of adequacy concluding that the United Kingdom ensures an equivalent level of data protection to the GDPR, which provides some relief regarding the legality of continued personal data flows from the European Economic Area to the United Kingdom. Some uncertainty remains, however, as this adequacy determination must be renewed after four years and may be modified or revoked in the interim. We cannot fully predict how the Data Protection Act, the UK GDPR, and other United Kingdom data protection laws or regulations may develop in the medium to longer term nor the effects of divergent laws and guidance regarding how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated. Our failure or perceived failure to comply with any of the foregoing legal and regulatory requirements could result in increased costs for our products, monetary penalties, damage to our reputation, government inquiries and investigations, and legal action. Furthermore, the legal and regulatory requirements that are applicable to our business are subject to change from time to time, which increases our monitoring and compliance costs and the risk that we may fall out of compliance. Additionally, we may be required to ensure that our suppliers comply with applicable laws and regulations. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with such laws or regulations, we could face sanctions for such noncompliance, and our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and Nasdaq listing requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure