Management's Discussion and Analysis, Selected Financial Data, Supplementary Financial Information." Modernization of Regulation S-K Items 101, 103 and 105 Effective as of November 9, 2020, the SEC issued Release No. 33-10825, Modernization of Regulation S-K Items 101, 103, and 105. This release was adopted to modernize the description of business, legal proceedings, and risk factor disclosures that registrants are required to make pursuant to Regulation S-K. Specifically, this release requires registrants to provide disclosures relating to their human capital resources and to restructure their risk factor disclosures. Additionally, the release increases the threshold for disclosure of environmental proceedings to which the government is a party. These changes are required for any annual period subsequent to the effective date of November 9, 2020. As such, we have adopted these changes in this report. 6 Managements Discussion and Analysis, Selected Financial Data, and Supplementary Financial Information In November 2020, the SEC issued Release No. 33-10890, Managements Discussion and Analysis, Selected Financial Data, and Supplementary Financial Information which will become fully effective on August 9, 2021, with voluntary compliance permitted on or after February 10, 2021. This release was adopted to modernize, simplify, and enhance certain financial disclosure requirements in Regulation S-K. Specifically, the SEC eliminated the requirement for selected financial data, only requiring quarterly disclosure when there are retrospective changes affecting comprehensive income, and amending the matters required to be presented under Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) to, among other things, eliminate the requirement of the contractual obligations table. With our early adoption of this release, we have eliminated from this document the items discussed above that are no longer required. Information on our contractual obligations is still disclosed in a narrative within the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Business Overview and Purpose We are an international facilities-based technology and communications company focused on providing our business and residential customers with a broad array of integrated services and solutions necessary to fully participate in our rapidly evolving digital world, which we believe is undergoing the Fourth Industrial Revolution or simply the 4IR. We believe we are the worlds most inter-connected network and our platform empowers our customers to rapidly adjust digital programs to meet immediate demands, create efficiencies, accelerate market access, and reduce costs allowing customers to rapidly evolve their information, communications and technology ("ICT") programs to address dynamic changes without distraction from their core competencies. By empowering our customers to rapidly acquire, analyze and act on data, we are furthering human progress through technology and enabling our customers to thrive in the 4IR. Our specific products and services are detailed below under the heading Segments and Products & Services. As part of the recent Lumen rebranding, we refined our marketing approach to better align with our customer base. Lumen is the name of our company and our flagship brand for serving the enterprise and wholesale markets. We also launched our Quantum Fiber brand and reconfirmed the importance of our expansive CenturyLink platform name. Quantum Fiber is our brand for providing fiber-based services to small business and residential customers. Our CenturyLink brand covers our mass-marketed legacy copper-based services, managed for optimal cost and efficiency. With approximately 450,000 route miles of fiber optic cable globally, we are among the largest providers of communications services to domestic and global enterprise customers. Our terrestrial and subsea fiber optic long-haul network throughout North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific connects to metropolitan fiber networks that we operate. We provide services in over 60 countries, with most of our revenue being derived in the United States ("U.S."). We believe our secure global platform plays a central role in facilitating communications worldwide. In the last year, the COVID-19 pandemic forced a seismic shift in how the world communicates with colleagues, family and friends, how children learn and how we conduct business. From multi-national global enterprises to small businesses, our integrated solutions portfolio enables our customers to accelerate digital transformation, improve operational performance and manage risk. For a discussion of certain risks applicable to our business, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report. 7 Financial Highlights The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations: Years Ended December 31, 2020 (1)(2) 2019 (1)(2) 2018 (1)(2)(3) (Dollars in millions) Operating revenue $ 20,712 21,458 22,580 Operating expenses 19,750 24,184 22,010 Operating income (loss) $ 962 (2,726) 570 Net loss $ (1,232) (5,269) (1,733) _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) During 2020, 2019 and 2018, we incurred Level 3 integration and transformation expenses of $375 million, $234 million and $393 million, respectively. (2) During 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded non-cash, non-tax-deductible goodwill impairment charges of $2.6 billion, $6.5 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. For additional information, see Note 2Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report. (3) The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December 2017 resulted in a remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new federal corporate tax rate of 21%. The remeasurement resulted in tax expense of $92 million for 2018. We estimate that during 2020, 2019 and 2018, approximately 8.7%, 8.5% and 8.2%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue was derived from providing telecommunications, colocation and hosting services outside the U.S. The following table summarizes certain selected financial information from our consolidated balance sheets: As of December 31, 2020 2019 (Dollars in millions) Total assets $ 59,394 64,742 Total long-term debt (1) 31,837 34,694 Total stockholders' equity 11,162 13,470 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) For additional information on our total long-term debt, see Note 6Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report. For information on our total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital ResourcesFuture Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. The summary financial information appearing above should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of Part II of this report and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Strategy Our business combination with Level 3 was driven in part by a vision to provide enhanced services to our business and residential customers by transforming our infrastructure into an adaptive fiber network delivering high bandwidth and low latency on a secure platform. Over the last three years, we have diligently pursued that vision through a deliberative strategy to attain our goals. 2018 Integration focused on efficiently combining the two companies into one; 2019 Transformation focused on improving the customer experience by strengthening our suite of products and services; 8 2020 Operation centered on the Lumen brand launch, highlighting the Companys vision for future services; 2021 Platform Expansion and Innovation build and enhance the capabilities of our platform and use those enhancements to drive profitable growth. Platform Expansion and Innovation In September 2020, we launched our Lumen brand signaling our heightened focus on delivering digital experiences to our customers designed to drive their success. We believe the 4IR will usher in unprecedented opportunity to leverage digital interactions to enhance business outcomes. The demands brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic underscored the urgency for digital transformation across our customer base, and further highlighted the need for reliable, secure digital services. Our new brand communicates our commitment to support our customers' needs and reflects a fiber platform that is secure, reliable and fast. Although our Lumen, Quantum and CenturyLink brands are focused on specific customers and related services, our collective Lumen strategy remains driven by our fundamental objectives of: Portfolio Progression meeting the dynamic needs of our broad range of customers for enhancing productivity Serving the business market at light speed to deliver applications globally, where and how they are needed to meet business outcomes Serving mass market customers with the reliable, secure and high-performance connectivity and the related services they require Enabling all customers businesses and consumers access to secure, fast and reliable connectivity required to thrive in the 4IR Stakeholder Success and Value Creation understanding the value and perspective each stakeholder contributes to our overall success; and Cost Transformation diligently pursuing our deleveraging and capital allocation strategies to enhance our return on capital and reward our investors. We plan to continue to pursue our long-term Lumen vision through disciplined focus on these objectives, which are discussed further below. Portfolio Progression Our portfolio progression plans focus on continuing to integrate our global network, cloud, edge, security, voice and collaboration assets and technologies into an advanced, all-in-one delivery architecture. Capability enhancements such as edge computing and software-defined wide area networks ("SD WAN") are critical to meeting our customers needs and drive our growth strategy. Our capabilities are grounded in our extensive global fiber infrastructure and our innovation efforts are centered around accelerating our platforms capabilities to anticipate and address those needs. We believe our Lumen platform provides the flexibility to create compelling, bespoke network services to enhance the efficiency and utility of our core network services. Our design has the potential to create value for our customers by simplifying application delivery on a high-performance, secure, worldwide digital platform. The Lumen platform is designed to address each layer of a digital business model through (i) high performance dynamic connections that are interoperable with a range of on-net enterprise locations, multi-tenant data centers and public cloud on-ramps; (ii) hybrid cloud infrastructure integrated with computing and storage options across public cloud, network edge and customer premises, and compatible with a wide range of data centers using different software; and (iii) service orchestration and automation which supports software-defined managed services frameworks capable of deploying workloads to a range of infrastructure venues and network connections. We believe this platform design can help customers, and our Lumen team, control costs by increasing operational efficiencies and driving forward the next generation of our product and services portfolio. 9 Stakeholder Success and Value Creation Employees, Customers, Partners and Vendors We believe realizing the Lumen promise depends on regular, informed communications with our stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, vendors, lenders, partners and our global community. Understanding stakeholder goals and priorities enables strategic decisions focused on building long-term value. Employees and Human Capital Resources Lumens highly competitive business requires attracting, developing and retaining a motivated team inspired by leadership, engaged in meaningful work, motivated by growth opportunities and thriving in a culture that embraces diversity, inclusion and belonging. Understanding and anticipating the priorities of our current and future employees is important to realizing our purpose to further human progress through technology. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 39,000 employees world-wide, including approximately 7,000 outside the U.S. Attracting, Developing and Retaining Talent Our recruiting, development and retention objectives focus on attracting skilled, engaged employees who contribute the talent and diverse perspectives critical to our innovative, forward-looking and inclusive workforce. Our recruiting process actively sources diverse talent and is designed to eliminate bias, supporting our ability to hire candidates with professional qualifications, personal potential and differing perspectives. Fostering career progression by encouraging regular professional education empowers our employees to pursue their professional goals, which is critical to developing and retaining our employees. We invest in broad-based development for all of our employees in various ways such as skills-building programs, on-demand learning options, tuition reimbursement, tailored mentoring programs and a suite of leadership development courses. In an effort to create more development opportunities for all employees, we are currently expanding our intern, mentoring and leadership development programs, with added focus on development for diverse employees. We gauge progress and efficacy, identify opportunities for change, and pursue solutions through tracking and analyzing data from various sources such as annual talent reviews and our progress toward hiring/promotion goals in our development, diversity and inclusion plans. Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging We believe that understanding and respecting anothers perspective, experience, background and beliefs provide an opportunity to expand horizons, challenge complacency and foster empathy. For Lumen, diversity of perspective, experience, background and beliefs fuel our innovative, collaborative, and engaged workplace. Realizing greater ethnic, racial and gender diversity across all levels of an organization is, and will continue to be, an ongoing journey. Our Diversity & Inclusion Steering Committee comprised of a cross-functional team of senior executives and led by our Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer, regularly evaluates and seeks to define our diversity, inclusion and belonging strategy. We aim for the highest standards of fairness and equal opportunity, in recruitment, hiring, promotions, job assignments and compensation (including undertaking periodic gender and race/ethnicity pay equity studies of our U.S., non-represented employees and making pay adjustments when warranted). Inclusive recruiting and outreach programs for diverse candidates, employee resource groups, and management-led listening circles are among some of Lumens initiatives to create greater diversity and belonging among our employees. Positive Corporate Culture Our employees are critical to Lumens success and we believe creating a positive, inclusive culture is essential to attracting and retaining engaged employees. Lumens company culture program incorporates a wide variety of communication and training activities encouraging collaboration among our colleagues around the world. We measure the programs efficacy and identify opportunities for improvements through an engagement survey distributed approximately every six months. 10 Health & Wellness We believe a healthy, engaged and high performing workforce is part of our competitive advantage. We want all of our employees to thrive, and we regularly re-evaluate how to best support our employees wellness, health and safety through benefits and resources. Our current benefit and wellness programs drive engagement that positively impacts our culture, job satisfaction, recruiting and retention programs. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we expanded our physical, mental, and family health programs and informational outreach. Additional information about our COVID-19 response is located under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Labor Relations Approximately 23 % of our U.S. workforce is represented by a union, either the Communications Workers of America or the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Employees in four countries in Europe are represented by works councils or a representative body. We recognize the critical role that our supervisors and managers play in fostering a productive and respectful work environment, and we encourage employees to work directly with their supervisors, where possible, to efficiently and effectively resolve workplace concerns. We also respect our employees rights to voluntarily establish and join unions and similar associations without unlawful interference. We strive to work collaboratively with the unions, councils and associations that represent our workers. Customer Success Our customers range from individual households to global enterprises. Whether our network supports remote education or a multi-national work-from-home environment, all customers are impacted by the quality and reliability of our products and services. Understanding how each customer accesses and uses our products and services informs the type of customer engagement to best meet their expectations. Our Customer Success organization includes dedicated teams focused on building deeper relationships and providing us the opportunity to continually improve our customers Lumen experience, including their interactions with our employees and systems. We believe a strong experience leads to satisfied customers and engaged employees who are encouraged to recommend creative solutions. We have a dedicated team responsible for evaluating the best approach to the customer experience from our largest enterprise customers to our residential customers, coupled with frequent, transparent and informative communication processes. We value both customer and employee suggestions. We offer our customers several channels for communicating with us, including voice, text, email, chat and social media, among others. We are driving a digital-first culture that allows our customers to configure, order, and rapidly deploy our services through an all-digital, self-service set of tools. In 2019, we launched Lumens inaugural customer experience (CX) event, during which we invited customers to collaborate directly with us. While careful listening to customers is the best source of customer experience feedback, we believe overlaying it with employee feedback is the most effective way to continuously improve. We regularly invite our front-line employees to provide feedback on opportunities to improve our capabilities. Partners and Vendors Understanding how our customers access and use our products and services is an important element of evaluating which partners and vendors may best contribute to our customers success. Consequently, understanding the opportunities any future or existing partners or vendors may bring is also an element of customer success. Lumen leverages our relationships and by co-innovating with a comprehensive group of strategic partners to create solutions focused exclusively on our customers' business and IT requirements. Through our open and interoperable approach, we seek to implement the best execution venue available for all our solutions whether ours or a third partys. When necessary, Lumen incorporates market-leading technologies to optimize application performance and streamline integration throughout the IT stack to ensure seamless integration and interoperability. Lumen has collaborated with a host of technology partners, giving us the capability to tailor and fully manage scalable solutions that customers control, so they can maximize applications. Lumen, by working with our network of technology partners, can integrate different partners and technologies, shifting the IT burden from our customers. 11 In light of these efforts to better serve our customers, we are materially reliant on a wide range of vendors to support our organization and partners to support our strategy. We work with, and rely on, other communications companies that lease us transmission capacity or sell us various services necessary for our current operations, as well as a wide range of software, hardware and equipment suppliers. We believe that co-innovating with other companies provides the flexibility to rapidly evolve our strategy to effectively support our customers. Cost Transformation We believe that diligently pursuing our deleveraging strategy, responsible capital allocation and our ongoing commitment to reinvest the savings in growing our Lumen platform contributes to our long-term goal to create value. Our investments in infrastructure, expanding fiber, and deploying in-building technology are part of our foundation for future growth. Our Network Our network, through which we provide most of our products and services consists of fiber-optic and copper cables, high-speed transport equipment, electronics, voice switches, data switches and routers, and various other equipment. We operate part of our network with leased assets, and a substantial portion of our equipment with licensed software. At December 31, 2020, our network (both owned and leased) included: Approximately 450,000 route miles of fiber optic plant globally; Approximately 916,000 miles of copper plant; Approximately 310 colocation facilities and data centers globally; Approximately 37,500 route miles of subsea fiber optic cable systems; Approximately 180,000 buildings directly connected to our network, which we refer to as "Fiber On-net" buildings; Multiple gateway and transmission facilities used in connection with operating our network throughout North America, Europe and Latin America; and Central office and other equipment that enables us to provide telephone service as an incumbent local telephone company ("ILEC") in 37 states. As noted elsewhere in this report, we view our network as one of our most critical assets. We have devoted, and plan to continue to devote, substantial resources to (i) simplify and modernize our network and legacy systems and (ii) expand our network to address demand for enhanced or new products. Although we own most of our network, we lease a substantial portion of our core fiber network from several other communication companies under arrangements that will periodically need to be renewed or replaced to support our current network operations. Like other large communications companies, we are a constant target of cyber-attacks of various degrees, and, from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we experience disruption in our services. For additional information regarding our systems, network assets, network risks, capital expenditure requirements and reliance upon third parties, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report. 12 Competition and Market Overview Organizations across the globe are competing to capitalize on opportunities created by emerging technologies. The need for data-intensive and latency-sensitive emerging technologies continues to grow. Helping businesses address these needs requires a platform that integrates essential technology services such as hybrid networking, connected security services that monitor, prevent and remediate threats, and edge computing services ranging from compute and storage to hosting and collocation services on the cloud edge. Competition We compete in a dynamic and highly competitive market, and we expect continued intense competition from a wide variety of sources under these evolving market conditions. In addition to competition from large international communications providers, we are increasingly facing competition from systems integrators, cloud service providers, software companies, infrastructure companies, cable companies, device providers, resellers and smaller niche providers, among others. Our ability to compete hinges upon effectively enhancing and better integrating our existing products, introducing new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, meeting changing customer needs, providing high-quality information security to build customer confidence and combat cyber-attacks, extending our core technology into new applications and anticipating emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological changes. Depending on the applicable market and requested services, competition can be intense, especially if competitors in the market have network assets better suited to customer needs, faster transmission speeds or lower prices, or, in certain overseas markets, are national or regional incumbent communications providers that have a longer history of providing service in the market. For our traditional voice services, providers of wireless voice, social networking and electronic messaging services are significant competitors as many customers are increasingly relying on these providers to communicate, resulting in the long-term systemic decline we have seen in our legacy, traditional voice services. Other potential sources of competition include non-carrier systems that are capable of bypassing our local networks, either partially or completely, through various means. Developments in software have permitted new competitors to offer affordable networking products that historically required more expensive hardware investment. We anticipate that all these trends will continue to place downward pressures on the use of our network. Additionally, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 obligates the ILECs to permit competitors to interconnect their facilities to the ILECs network and to take various other steps that are designed to promote competition, including obligations to (i) negotiate interconnection agreements in good faith, (ii) provide nondiscriminatory unbundled access to specific portions of the ILECs network and (iii) permit competitors to physically or virtually colocate their plant on the ILECs property. As a result of these regulatory, consumer and technological developments, we also face competition from competitive local exchange carriers ("CLECs"), particularly in densely populated areas. CLECs provide competing services through (i) reselling an ILECs local services, (ii) using an ILECs unbundled network elements, (iii) operating their own facilities or (iv) a combination thereof. Competition for higher margin, legacy services remains high. However, our platform expansion and innovation strategy is focused largely on addressing these competitive pressures. As both residential and business customers increasingly demand high-speed connections for entertainment, communications and productivity, we expect the demands on our network will continue to increase over the next several years. To remain competitive and successful, we are continuing to invest in network security, reliability and flexibility and design innovations to deliver competitive services to meet increasing customer bandwidth and speed requirements. Additional information about competitive pressures is located under the heading Risk FactorsBusiness Risks in Item 1A of Part I of this report. 13 Market Overview Understanding and anticipating market trends drives our investment in developing the products and services we believe will be well received by our customers. We expect edge computing services demand to significantly increase over the next several years, serving multiple verticals, including finance, healthcare, retail, manufacturing and other industries. As these use cases continue to emerge, we expect secure network services will increase in importance as consumers require holistic solutions with the flexibility necessary to help accelerate the convergence of computing and communications capabilities with digital content. We believe we have a world-class set of global fiber assets that positions us to deliver a highly-competitive suite of cloud connectivity, low latency edge computing, and integrated network services. We generally market our business services to members of in-house IT departments or other highly-sophisticated customers with deep technological experience. These individuals typically satisfy their IT requirements by contracting with us or a rapidly evolving group of competitors, or by deploying in-house solutions. We expect our market competition to continue to increase as technology evolves and enables our customers to seek solutions from multiple sources. We compete to provide services to business customers based on a variety of factors, including the comprehensiveness and reliability of our network, our data transmission speeds, price, the latency of our available intercity and metro routes, the scope of our integrated offerings, the reach and peering capacity of our IP network, and customer service. As noted above, technological and competitive factors have led to new products and services that have reduced the demand for certain of our traditional network services, especially our traditional ILEC services. Also, market demand for our broadband services could be adversely affected by advanced wireless data transmission technologies and other systems delivering generally faster average broadband transmission speeds than ours. Sales and Marketing Our enterprise sales and marketing approach revolves around solving complex customer problems with advanced technology and network solutions - striving to make core networks services compatible with digital tools. We also rely on our call center personnel and a variety of channel partners to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our customers. To meet the needs of different customers, our offerings include both stand-alone services and bundled services designed to provide a complete offering of integrated services. Our sales and marketing approach to our business customers includes a commitment to provide comprehensive communications and IT solutions for business, wholesale and government customers of all sizes, ranging from small business offices to the worlds largest global enterprise customers. Our marketing plans include marketing our products and services primarily through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, telemarketing and third parties, including telecommunications agents, system integrators, value-added resellers and other telecommunications firms. We support our distribution through digital advertising, events, television advertising, website promotions and public relations. We maintain local offices in most major and secondary markets within the U.S. and many of the primary markets of the more than 60 countries in which we provide services. Similarly, our sales and marketing approach to our mass market customers emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and service with a local presence. Our approach includes marketing our products and services primarily through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, telemarketing and third parties, including retailers, satellite television providers, door to door sales agents and digital marketing firms. Segments and Products & Services On February 10, 2021, we announced plans to adjust our reporting segments and customer-facing sales channels in 2021 to better align with operational changes designed to better support our customers. We believe the changes will provide greater transparency into how we are performing against our strategy, including focusing on growth opportunities and managing declining legacy services. For fiscal year 2020, our products and services were reported by segments as described below. 14 Segments In 2020, we reported our financial performance using five segments, as described below: International and Global Accounts Management ("IGAM") Segment - provided products and services to approximately 200 global enterprise customers and three operating regions: Europe Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific; Enterprise Segment - provided products and services to large and regional domestic and global enterprises, as well as the public sector, which includes the U.S. federal government, state and local governments and research and education institutions; Small and Medium Business ("SMB") Segment - provided products and services to small and medium businesses directly and indirectly through our channel partners; Wholesale Segment - provided products and services to a wide range of other communication providers across the wireline, wireless, cable, voice and data center sectors. Our wholesale customers range from large global telecom providers to small regional providers; and Consumer Segment - provided products and services to residential customers. Additionally, certain state support payments, Connect America Fund (CAF) federal support revenue, and other revenue from leasing and subleasing, including 2018 rental income associated with the 2017 failed-sale-leaseback, are reported in our consumer segment as regulatory revenue. The following table shows the composition of our operating revenue by segment for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018: Years Ended December 31, Percent Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 Percentage of revenue: International and Global Accounts 16 % 16 % 16 % % % Enterprise 29 % 26 % 25 % 3 % 1 % Small and Medium Business 12 % 13 % 13 % (1) % % Wholesale 18 % 19 % 19 % (1) % % Consumer 25 % 26 % 27 % (1) % (1) % Total operating revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % For additional information on our segment data, including information on certain centrally-managed assets and expenses not reflected in our segment results, see Note 16Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reporting Segments" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Products & Services At December 31, 2020, we reported our products and services revenue among four categories for our International and Global Accounts Management, Enterprise, Small and Medium Business and Wholesale segments. IP and Data Services VPN Data Network. Built on our extensive fiber-optic network, we create private networks tailored to our customers needs. These technologies enable service providers, enterprises and government entities to streamline multiple networks into a single, cost-effective solution that simplifies the transmission of voice, video, and data over a single secure network; 15 Ethernet. We deliver a robust array of networking services built on Ethernet technology. Ethernet services include point-to-point and multi-point equipment configurations that facilitate data transmissions across metropolitan areas and larger enterprise-class wide area networks. Our Ethernet technology is also used by wireless service providers for data transmission via our fiber-optic cables connected to their towers; Internet Protocol ("IP"). Our IP services provide global internet access over a high performance, diverse network with connectivity in more than 60 countries. Our network spans approximately 450,000 route miles globally with extensive off-net access solutions across North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific; and Content Delivery . Our content delivery services provide our customers with the ability to meet their streaming video and far-reaching digital content distribution needs through our Content Delivery Network ("CDN") services and our Vyvx Broadcast Solutions. Transport and Infrastructure Wavelength. We deliver high bandwidth optical networks to firms requiring an end-to-end transport solution with Ethernet technology by contracting for a scalable amount of bandwidth connecting sites or providing high-speed access to cloud computing resources; Dark Fiber. We possess an extensive array of unlit optical fiber, known as dark fiber. Many large enterprises are interested in building their networks with this high-bandwidth, highly secure optical technology. Lumen Technologies provides professional services to engineer these networks, and in some cases, manage them for customers; Private Line. We deliver private line services, a direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for connecting two or more organizational sites. Private line service offers a high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites, including wireless backhaul transmissions; Colocation and Data Center Services . We provide different options for organizations data center needs. Our data center services range from dedicated hosting and cloud services to more complex managed solutions, including disaster recovery, business continuity, applications management support and security services to manage mission critical applications; and Professional Services. Our experts deliver a robust array of consulting services to organizations either as part of a larger engagement or as stand-alone services. This category includes network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and the building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for government and business customers. Voice and Collaboration Voice. We offer our customers a complete portfolio of traditional Time Division Multiplexing ("TDM") voice services including Primary Rate Interface service, local inbound service, switched one-plus, toll free, long distance and international services; and Voice Over Internet Protocol ("VoIP"). We deliver a broad range of local and enterprise voice and data services built on VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) technology, including VoIP enhanced local service, national and multinational SIP Trunking, Hosted VoIP, support of Primary Rate Interface service, long distance service and toll-free service. IT and Managed Services We craft technology solutions for our customers and often manage those solutions on an ongoing basis. Managed services represent a blend of network, hosting, cloud (public and private), and IT services that typically require ongoing support such as managing applications, operating systems and hardware. This product line includes intuitive management tools that optimize efficiencies in companies technology infrastructure. These services frequently enhance equipment or networks owned, acquired or controlled by the customer and often include our consulting or software development. 16 At December 31, 2020, we reported our products and services revenue among the following four categories for the Consumer segment: Broadband , which includes high speed, fiber-based and lower speed DSL broadband services; Voice , which include local and long-distance services; Regulatory Revenue, which consist of (i) CAF and other support payments designed to reimburse us for various costs related to certain telecommunications services and (ii) other operating revenue from the leasing and subleasing of space; and Other, which include retail video services (including our linear TV services), professional services and other ancillary services. Research, Development & Intellectual Property Due to the dynamic nature of our industry, we prioritize investing in developing new products, improving existing products and licensing third party intellectual property rights to anticipate and meet our customers evolving needs. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 2,700 patents and patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. We have also received licenses to use patents held by others. Patent licenses give us the freedom to operate our business without the risk of interruption from the holder of the patented technology. We plan to continue to file new patent applications as we enhance and develop products and services, and we plan to continue to seek opportunities to expand our patent portfolio through strategic acquisitions and licensing. In addition to our patent rights, we have rights in various trade names, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property that we use to conduct our business. Our services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed software. We also occasionally license our intellectual property to others as we deem appropriate. For information on various litigation risks associated with owning and using intellectual property rights, see Risk FactorsBusiness Risks in Item 1A of Part I of this report, and Note 17Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Regulations Our domestic operations are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC), by various state utility commissions and occasionally by local agencies. Our non-domestic operations are regulated by supranational groups (such as the European Union, or EU), national agencies and frequently state, provincial or local bodies. Generally, we must obtain and maintain operating licenses from these bodies in most areas where we offer regulated services. For information on the risks associated with the regulations discussed below, see Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters in Item 1A of Part I of this report. Changes in the composition and leadership of the FCC, state commissions and other agencies that regulate our business could have significant impacts on our revenue, expenses, competitive position and prospects. Changes in the composition and leadership of these agencies are often difficult to predict, which makes future planning more difficult. The following description discusses some of the major regulations affecting our operations, but others could have a substantial impact on us as well. For additional information, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report. Federal Regulation of Domestic Operations General The FCC regulates the interstate services we provide, including the business data service charges we bill for wholesale network transmission and intercarrier compensation, including the interstate access charges that we bill other communications companies in connection with the origination and termination of interstate phone calls. Additionally, the FCC regulates several aspects of our business related to international communications services, privacy, public safety and network infrastructure, including our access to and use of local telephone numbers and our provision of emergency 911 services. 17 Many of the FCCs regulations adopted in recent years remain subject to judicial review and additional rulemakings, thus increasing the difficulty of determining the ultimate impact of these changes on us and our competitors. Universal Service In 2015, we accepted Connect America Fund or "CAF" funding from the FCC of approximately $500 million per year for six years to fund the deployment of voice and broadband capable infrastructure for approximately 1.2 million rural households and businesses in 33 of the 37 states in which we are an ILEC under the CAF Phase II high-cost support program. As a result of accepting CAF Phase II support payments for 33 states, as well as existing merger-related commitments, we are obligated to make substantial capital expenditures to build infrastructure by certain specified milestone deadlines. In accordance with the FCCs January 2020 order, we elected to receive an additional year of CAF Phase II funding in 2021. In early 2020, the FCC created the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (the RDOF), which is a new federal support program designed to replace the CAF Phase II program. On December 7, 2020, the FCC allocated in its RDOF Phase I auction $9.2 billion in support payments over 10 years to deploy high speed broadband to over 5.2 million unserved locations. We won bids for RDOF Phase I support payments of $26 million annually. These RDOF Phase I support payments are expected to begin January 1, 2022. For additional information about the potential financial impact of the CAF Phase II program, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Broadband Regulation In February 2015, the FCC adopted an order classifying Broadband Internet Access Services (BIAS) under Title II of the Communications Act of 1934 and applying new regulations. In December 2017, the FCC voted to repeal most of those regulations and the classification of BIAS as a Title II service to preempt states from imposing substantial regulations on broadband. Opponents of this change appealed this action in federal court. Several states have also opposed the change and have initiated state executive orders or introduced legislation focused on state-specific Internet service regulation. In October 2019, the federal court upheld the FCCs classification decision but vacated a part of its preemption ruling. The court also requested the FCC to make further findings relating to its classification decision. Numerous parties have appealed this decision, which remain pending. In addition, members of the Biden Administration and various consumer interest groups have advocated in favor of reclassifying BIAS under Title II. The ultimate impact of these pending judicial appeals and calls for additional regulation are currently unknown to us, although the imposition of heightened regulation of our Internet operations could potentially hamper our ability to operate our data networks efficiently, restrict our ability to implement network management practices necessary to ensure quality service, increase the cost of operating, maintaining and upgrading our network and otherwise negatively impact our current operations. State Regulation of Domestic Operations In recent years, most states have reduced their regulation of ILECs, including ours. Nonetheless, state regulatory commissions generally continue to (i) set the rates that telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging traffic, (ii) administer support programs designed to subsidize the provision of services to high-cost rural areas, (iii) regulate the purchase and sale of ILECs, (iv) require ILECs to provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices of regulated services, (v) limit ILECs ability to borrow and pledge their assets, (vi) regulate transactions between ILECs and their affiliates and (vii) impose various other service standards. In most states, switched and business data services and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. Data Privacy Regulations Various foreign, federal and state laws govern our storage, maintenance and use of customer data, including a wide range of consumer protection, data protection, privacy, intellectual property and similar laws. Data privacy regulations are complex and vary across jurisdictions. As a global company, we must comply with various jurisdictional data privacy regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the EU and 18 similar laws adopted by various other jurisdictions in certain of our domestic and overseas markets. The application, interpretation and enforcement of these laws are often uncertain, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. These regulations require careful handling of personal and customer data. We have data handling policies and practices to comply with global data privacy requirements, including GDPR and similar regulations, and have resources dedicated to complying with changing data privacy regulations. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Regulations As a global company we must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations governing business ethics and practices, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and anti-competition regulations. We have compliance policies, programs and training to prevent non-compliance with such anti-corruption regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. We monitor pending and proposed legislation and regulatory changes that may impact our business and develop strategies to address the changes and incorporate them into existing compliance programs. International Regulations Our subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. are subject to various regulations in the markets where service is provided. The scope of regulation varies from country to country. The communications regulatory regimes in certain of our non-domestic markets are in the process of development. Many issues, including the pricing of services, have not been addressed fully, or even at all. The United Kingdom (UK) recently terminated its membership in the EU (Brexit), subject to the negotiation of additional separation agreements with the EU regarding data sharing, financial services and other matters. Several factors which are currently unknown will influence Brexits ultimate impact on our business. We operate a staging facility in the UK, where certain core network elements and customer premises equipment is configured before being shipped to both UK and EU locations. The UK is currently also a central repository of our spare parts for use in our European operations. However, we have also established a third party sparing facility in Amsterdam which we believe will help mitigate potential disruptions resulting from any impediments to the free movement of goods between the EU and the UK. Given the small percentage of our global personnel that are UK or EU nationals, we do not anticipate any adverse impact from Brexit on our workforce. We are currently monitoring Brexit developments, reviewing our supply chain alternatives, and assessing the short and long-term implications of Brexit on our operations. Nonetheless, based on current information, we do not anticipate Brexit will have a substantial impact on our business. Our overseas operations are subject to various U.S. export and sanctions laws and regulations. Our deconsolidated Venezuelan affiliate conducts operations in Venezuela, which is currently subject to certain U.S. sanctions. Other Regulations Our networks and properties are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations, including environmental compliance and remediation expenses. We are also subject to codes that regulate our trenching and construction operations or that require us to obtain permits, licenses or franchises to operate. Such regulations are enacted by municipalities, counties, state, federal or other regional governmental bodies, and can vary widely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction as a result. Such regulations may also require us to pay substantial fees. Acquisitions and Dispositions Since being incorporated in 1968, we have grown principally through acquisitions. By 2008, we had become one of the largest providers of rural telephone services in the United States. Since then, we acquired Embarq Corporation in mid-2009, Qwest Communications International Inc. in early 2011 and Level 3 Communications, Inc. in late 2017. These acquisitions have substantially changed our customer base, geographic footprint, business strategies and mix of products and services. We regularly evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional assets or disposing of assets in exchange for cash, securities or other properties, and at any given time may be engaged in discussions or negotiations regarding additional acquisitions or dispositions. We generally do not announce our acquisitions or dispositions until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement. 19 See Note 2Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report for additional information on these acquisitions. Seasonality Overall, our business is not materially impacted by seasonality. Our network-related operating expenses are, however, generally higher in the second and third quarters of the year. From time to time, weather related problems have resulted in increased costs to repair our network and respond to service calls in some of our markets. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given year, but have generally been highest during the third quarter and have been related to damage from severe storms, including hurricanes, tropical storms and tornadoes in our markets along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coastlines. Additional Information From time to time, we may make investments in other communications or technology companies. For further information on regulatory, technological and competitive factors that could impact our revenue, see "Regulation" under this Item 1, above, and "Competition" under this Item 1, above, and "Risk Factors" under Item 1A, below. For more information on the financial contributions of our various services, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Website Access and Important Investor Information We were incorporated in Louisiana in 1968. Our website is www.lumen.com . We routinely post important investor information in the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.lumen.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this report or any other periodic reports that we file with the SEC. You may obtain free electronic copies of annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K of us and two of our principal subsidiaries, and amendments to those reports, in the Investor Relations section of our website ( ir.lumen.com ) under the heading FINANCIALS and subheading SEC Filings. These reports are also available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov . From time to time, we also use our website to webcast our earnings calls and certain of our meetings with investors or other members of the investment community. We have adopted a written code of conduct that serves as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, in accordance with applicable laws and rules promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. In the event that we make any changes (other than by a technical, administrative or non-substantive amendment) to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of our code of conduct applicable to our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. The code of conduct, as well as copies of our guidelines on significant governance issues and the charters of our key board committees, are also available in the Governance section of our website at www.lumen.com/en-us/about/governance or in print to any shareholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate Secretary at Lumen Technologies, Inc., 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana, 71203. In connection with filing this report, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and its related regulations. In addition, during 2020, our chief executive officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was unaware of any violations by us of the New York Stock Exchanges corporate governance listing standards. As a large complex organization, we are from time to time subject to litigation, disputes, governmental or internal investigations, consent decrees, service outages, security breaches or other adverse events. We typically publicly disclose these occurrences (and their ultimate outcomes) only when we determine these disclosures to be material to investors or otherwise required by applicable law. We typically disclose material non-public information by disseminating press releases, making public filings with the SEC, or disclosing information during publicly accessible meetings or conference calls. Nonetheless, from time to time we have used, and intend to continue to use, our website and social media accounts to augment our disclosures. 20 Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, answer questions raised by securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst with respect to our past or projected performance. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the technology or communications industries are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources, and on assumptions made by us based on our managements knowledge and experience in the markets in which we operate and our industry generally. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. Our principal executive offices and telephone number are listed on the cover page of this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion identifies material factors that could (i) materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects or (ii) cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results, projections or other expectations. The following information should be read in conjunction with the other portions of this report, including Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8. All references to "Notes" in this Item 1A of Part I refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report. Please note the following discussion is not intended to comprehensively list all risks or uncertainties faced by us. Our operations or actual results could also be similarly impacted by additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us, that we currently deem to be immaterial, that arise in the future or that are not specific to us. In addition, certain of the risks described below apply only to a part or segment of our business. Business Risks We may not be able to create the global digital experience expected by customers. Our customers expect us to create and maintain a global digital experience, including: (i) automation and simplification of our offerings, (ii) customer self-service options, (iii) innovative solutions, and (iv) digital access to our products, services and customer support. To do so, we must complete the digital transformation of our operations that is currently underway. Effective digital transformation is a complex, dynamic process requiring efficient allocation and prioritization of resources, simplification of our product portfolio, faster product deployments, retirement of obsolete systems, migration of data and corresponding workforce and system development. We cannot assure you we will be able to effect the successful digital transformation necessary to develop or deliver a global digital experience expected by our customers. If we are unable to do so, we could lose customers to our competitors or fail to attract new customers. Challenges with integrating or modernizing our existing applications and systems could harm our performance. To succeed, we need to integrate, upgrade and evolve our existing applications and systems, including many legacy systems from past acquisitions. We cannot assure you we will be able to integrate our legacy IT systems, modernize our infrastructure or deploy a master data management platform. These modernization efforts will require efficient allocation of resources, development capacity, access to subject-matter experts, development of a sustainable operating model and successful collaboration between legal, privacy and security personnel. Any failure or delay in accomplishing these initiatives may negatively affect our (i) customer and employee experiences, (ii) ability to meet regulatory, legal or contractual obligations, (iii) network stability, (iv) ability to realize anticipated efficiencies or (v) ability to deliver value to our customers at required speed and scale. We operate in an intensely competitive industry and existing and future competitive pressures could harm our performance. 21 Each of our business and consumer offerings faces increasingly intense competition from a wide variety of sources under evolving market conditions. Some of our current and potential competitors: (i) offer products or services that are substitutes for our traditional wireline voice services, including wireless voice and non-voice communication services, (ii) offer a more comprehensive range of communications products and services, (iii) have greater marketing, engineering, research, development, technical, provisioning, customer relations, financial or other resources, (iv) conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost than we do, (v) are subject to less regulation than we are, (vi) have stronger brand names, (vii) have deeper or more long-standing relationships with key customers, or (viii) have larger operations than ours, any of which may enable them to compete more successfully for customers, strategic partners and acquisitions. Competitive pressures have lowered market prices for many of our products and services in recent years and continued competitive pressures will likely place further downward pressure on market pricing. Our ability to successfully compete could be hampered if we fail to develop and market innovative technology solutions. The technology and communications industry has been and continues to be impacted by significant technological changes, which are enabling an increasing variety of companies to compete with us. Many of these technological changes are (i) displacing or reducing demand for certain of our services, (ii) enabling the development of competitive products or services, (iii) enabling customers to reduce or bypass use of our networks or (iv) reducing profit margins. For example, as service providers continue to invest in 5G networks and services, their 5G services could reduce demand for our network services. Increasingly, customers are demanding more technologically advanced products that suit their evolving needs. To remain competitive, we will need to accurately predict, invest in and respond to changes in technology. Also, we will need to continue developing products and services attractive to our customers. Our ability to do so could be restricted by various factors, including limitations of our existing network, technology, capital or personnel. If we fail at that, our competitors will likely provide our customers with more desirable products and services. We may be unable to attract, develop and retain leaders and employees with the right skillsets and technical expertise. We may be unable to attract and retain skilled and motivated leaders and employees who possess the right skillsets and technical, managerial and development expertise to execute on our plans for transformation, innovation and strategic growth. We operate in a highly competitive and expanding industry. We operate with a limited pool of employees and there is competition for highly qualified personnel in certain growth markets. There is no assurance our efforts to recruit and retain qualified personnel will be successful. If we are unable to do so, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We could be harmed by cyber-attacks. Our vulnerability to cyber-attacks is heightened by our (i) material reliance on our networks to conduct our operations, (ii) our transmission of large amounts of data over our systems and (iii) our processing and storage of sensitive customer data. Cyber-attacks on our systems may stem from a variety of sources, including fraud, malice or sabotage on the part of foreign nations, third parties, vendors, or employees and attempts by outside parties to gain access to sensitive data that is stored in or transmitted across our network. Cyber-attacks can put at risk personally identifiable customer data or protected health information, thereby implicating stringent domestic and foreign data protection laws. These threats may also arise from failure or breaches of systems owned, operated or controlled by other unaffiliated operators to the extent we rely on such other systems to deliver services to our customers or to operate our business. Various other factors could intensify these risks, including, (i) our maintenance of information in digital form stored on servers connected to the Internet, (ii) our use of open and software-defined networks, (iii) the complexity of our multi-continent network composed of legacy and acquired properties, (iv) growth in the size and sophistication of our customers and their service requirements, and (v) increased use of our network due to greater demand for data services. Like other prominent technology and communications companies, we and our customers are constant targets of cyber-attacks of various kinds. Although some of these attacks have resulted in security breaches, thus far none of these breaches has resulted in a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. You should be aware, however, that the risk of breaches is likely to continue to increase due to several factors, including 22 the increasing sophistication of cyber-attacks and the wider accessibility of cyber-attack tools. You should be further aware that defenses against cyber-attacks currently available to U.S. companies are unlikely to prevent intrusions by a highly-determined, highly-sophisticated hacker. Consequently, you should assume we will be unable to implement security barriers or other preventative measures that repel all future cyber-attacks. Although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions (including self-insured deductibles, coverage restrictions and monetary coverage caps), cover certain aspects of our cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover our losses. Cyber-attacks could (i) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems, which could in turn disrupt the operations of our customers, (ii) result in the destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive, classified or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our customers end users, (iii) require us to notify customers, regulatory agencies or the public of data breaches, (iv) require us to provide credits for future service to our customers or to offer expensive incentives to retain customers; (v) subject us to claims by our customers or regulators for damages, fines, penalties, license or permit revocations or other remedies, (vi) damage our reputation or result in a loss of business, (vii) result in the loss of industry certifications or (viii) require significant management attention or financial resources to remedy the resulting damages or to change our systems. Any or all of the foregoing developments could materially adversely impact us. We could be harmed by outages in our network or various platforms, or other failures of our services. We are also vulnerable to outages in our network, hosting, cloud or IT platforms, as well as failures of our products or services (including basic and enhanced 911 emergency services) to perform in the manner anticipated. These outages or other failures could result in several of the same adverse effects listed above for cyber-attacks, including the loss of customers, the issuance of credits or refunds, and regulatory fines. This vulnerability may be increased by several factors, including aging network elements, human error, vulnerabilities in our vendors or supply chain, aberrant employees and hardware and software limitations. From time to time in the ordinary course of our business we experience disruptions in our service. We could experience more significant disruptions in the future. Such disruptions could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Several of our services continue to experience declining revenue, and our efforts to offset these declines may not be successful. Primarily as a result of the competitive and technological changes discussed above, we have experienced a prolonged systemic decline in our local voice, long-distance voice, network access and private line revenues. Consequently, we have experienced declining consolidated revenues (excluding acquisitions) for a prolonged period and have not been able to realize cost savings sufficient to fully offset the decline. More recently, we have experienced declines in revenue derived from a broader array of our products and services. We have thus far been unable to reverse our annual revenue losses (excluding acquisitions). In addition, most of our more recent product and service offerings generate lower profit margins and may have shorter lifespans than our traditional communication services, and some can be expected to experience slowing or no growth in the future. Accordingly, we may not be successful in attaining our goal of achieving future revenue growth. Our operations, financial performance and liquidity are materially reliant on key suppliers, vendors and other third parties. Our ability to conduct our operations could be materially adversely affected if certain of our arrangements with third parties were terminated, including those further described below. Reliance on other communications providers . To offer certain services in certain of our markets, we must either purchase services or lease network capacity from, or interconnect our network with, the infrastructure of other communications carriers or cloud companies who typically compete against us in those markets. Our reliance on these supply or interconnection arrangements limits our control over the quality of our services. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that other carriers may be unwilling or unable to continue or renew these arrangements in the future. Those risks are heightened when the other carrier is a competitor who may benefit from terminating the agreement or imposing price increases. Additionally, certain of our operations carry a significant amount of voice or data traffic for other communications providers. Their reliance on our services exposes us to the risk that they may 23 transfer all or a portion of this traffic from our network to alternative networks owned or leased by them, thereby reducing our revenue. Reliance on key suppliers and vendors . We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure, including fiber optic cable, software, optronics, transmission electronics, digital switches and related components. We also rely on software and service vendors or other parties to assist us with operating, maintaining and administering our business, including billing, security, provisioning and general operations. If any of these vendors experience interruptions, security breaches or other problems delivering their products or services on a timely basis, our operations could suffer significantly. To the extent that proprietary technology of a supplier is an integral component of our network, we may have limited flexibility to purchase key network components from alternative suppliers. Reliance on key customer contracts . We have several complex high-value national and global customer contracts. These contracts are frequently impacted by a variety of factors that could reduce or eliminate the profitability of these contracts. Moreover, we would be adversely impacted if we fail to renew major contracts upon their expiration. Reliance on landowners. We rely on rights-of-way, colocation agreements, franchises and other authorizations granted by governmental bodies, railway companies, utilities, carriers and other third parties to locate a portion of our network equipment over, on or under their respective properties. A significant number of these authorizations are scheduled to lapse over the next five to ten years, unless we are able to extend or renew them. Further, some of our operations are subject to licensing and franchising requirements imposed by municipalities or other governmental authorities. Our operations could be adversely affected if any of these authorizations are cancelled, or otherwise terminate or lapse, or if the landowner requests price increases. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully extend these arrangements when their terms expire, or to enter into new arrangements that may be necessary to implement our network expansion opportunities. We face risks from natural disasters and extreme weather, which can disrupt our operations and cause us to incur substantial additional capital and operating costs. A substantial number of our domestic facilities are located in coastal states, which subjects them to the risks associated with severe tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes, and many other of our facilities are subject to the risk of earthquakes, floods, fires, tornadoes or other similar casualty events. These events could cause substantial damages, including downed transmission lines, flooded facilities, power outages, fuel shortages, network congestion, delay or failure, damaged or destroyed property and equipment, and work interruptions. Due to substantial deductibles, coverage limits and exclusions, and limited availability, we have typically recovered only a portion of our losses through insurance. Moreover, many climate experts predict an increase in extreme weather events in the future, which would increase our exposure to such risks. For all these reasons, any future hazard-related costs and interruptions could adversely affect our operations and our financial condition. Any additional future acquisitions or strategic investments may not be available on attractive terms and would subject us to additional risks. Much of our past growth is attributable to acquisitions. In an effort to implement our business strategies, we may from time to time in the future attempt to pursue other acquisition or expansion opportunities, including strategic investments. To the extent we can identify attractive opportunities, these transactions could involve acquisitions of entire businesses or investments in start-up or established companies and could take several forms. These types of transactions may present significant risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of identifying appropriate companies to acquire or invest in on acceptable terms, potential violations of covenants in our debt instruments, insufficient revenue acquired to offset liabilities assumed, unexpected expenses, inadequate return of capital, regulatory or compliance issues, potential infringements, difficulties integrating the new properties into our operations, and other unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence. In addition, the financing of any future acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure. Except as required by law or applicable securities exchange listing standards, we do not expect to ask our shareholders to vote on any proposed acquisition. 24 Asset dispositions could have a detrimental impact on us or the holders of our securities. In the past, we have disposed of assets or asset groups for a variety of reasons, and we may consider disposing of other assets or asset groups from time to time in the future. If we agree to proceed with any such divestitures of assets, we may experience operational difficulties segregating them from our retained assets and operations, which could result in disruptions to our operations or claims for damages, among other things. Moreover, such dispositions could reduce our cash flows available to support our payment of dividends, capital expenditures, pension contributions, debt maturities or other commitments. An outbreak of disease or similar public health threat, such as the recent COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse impact on us. An outbreak of disease or similar public health threat, such as the recent COVID-19 pandemic and its detrimental impact on the worldwide economy, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. COVID-19 poses the risk that we or our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and other business partners may be prevented from conducting business activities at expected levels through established processes for an indefinite period of time. Future events regarding the pandemic, which are unpredictable and beyond our control, will likely continue impacting our operations and results by its effects on demand for our products and services and network usage, on our customers ability to continue to pay us in a timely manner, on other third parties we rely on, on our workforce, on our performance under our contracts, and on our supply chains or distribution channels for our products and services. If the pandemic intensifies or economic conditions further deteriorate, the pandemics adverse impact on us could become pronounced in the future and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, to the extent any of these risks and uncertainties adversely impact us, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this section Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have taken certain precautions due to the uncertain and evolving situation relating to the spread of COVID-19 that could have a material adverse impact on us. The precautionary measures described in this annual report we have taken to safeguard our employees and customers could make it more difficult to (i) timely and efficiently furnish products and services to our customers, (ii) devote sufficient resources to our ongoing network and product simplification projects, (iii) efficiently monitor and maintain our network, (iv) maintain effective internal controls, (v) mitigate information technology or cybersecurity related risks, and (vi) otherwise operate and administer our affairs. As such, these measures ultimately could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We face other business risks. We face other business risks, including among others: the risk that customer complaints, governmental investigations or other adverse publicity will adversely impact our brand and our business; and the difficulties of managing and administering an organization that offers a complex set of products to a diverse range of customers across several continents. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to an extensive, evolving regulatory framework that could create operational or compliance costs. As explained in greater detail elsewhere in this annual report, (i) our domestic operations are regulated by the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies and (ii) our international operations are regulated by a wide range of various foreign and international bodies. We cannot assure you we will be successful in obtaining or retaining all regulatory licenses necessary to carry out our business in our various markets. Even if we are, the prescribed service standards and conditions imposed on us under these licenses and related data storage, communication and transfer laws may increase our costs, limit our operational flexibility or result in third-party claims. 25 We are subject to numerous requirements and interpretations under various international, federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, which are often quite detailed and occasionally in conflict with each other. Accordingly, we cannot ensure we will always be considered to be in compliance with all these requirements at any single point in time. Various governmental agencies, including state attorneys general with jurisdiction over our operations, have routinely in the past investigated our business practices either in response to customer complaints or on their own initiative, and are expected to continue to do the same in the future. Certain of these investigations have resulted in substantial fines in the past. On occasion, we have resolved such matters by entering into consent decrees, which are court orders that frequently bind us to specific conduct going forward. These consent decrees expose us not only to contractual remedies, but also to judicial enforcement via contempt of court proceedings, any of which could have material adverse consequences. Additionally, future investigations can potentially result in enforcement actions, litigation, fines, settlements or reputational harm, or could cause us to change our sales practices or operations. Our participation in the FCC's CAF Phase II and RDOF programs subjects us to certain financial risks. If we are not in compliance with FCC measures by the end of the CAF Phase II and RDOF programs, we could incur substantial penalties. We provide products or services to various federal, state and local agencies. Our failure to comply with complex governmental regulations and laws applicable to these programs, or the terms of our governmental contracts, could result in us suffering substantial negative publicity, being suspended or debarred from future governmental programs or contracts for a significant period of time and in certain instances could lead to the revocation of our FCC licenses. Moreover, certain governmental agencies frequently reserve the right to terminate their contracts for convenience or if funding is unavailable. If our governmental contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from governmental programs or contracts, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Adapting and responding to changing regulatory requirements has historically materially impacted our operations. We believe evolving regulatory developments and regulatory uncertainty could continue to have a material impact on our business. In particular, our business could be materially impacted if the U.S. Congress amends or eliminates current federal law limitations on the liability of private network providers, such as us, against claims related to third party content stored or transmitted on private networks, as currently proposed by certain governmental officials, legislative leaders and consumer interest groups. We could also be materially affected if currently pending proposals to increase the regulation of internet service providers or to further strengthen data privacy laws are implemented. In addition, federal and state agencies that dispense support program payments can, and from time to time do, reduce the amount of those payments to us and other carriers. The variability of these laws could also hamper the ability of us and our customers to plan for the future or establish long-term strategies. Third-party content stored or transmitted on our networks could result in liability or otherwise damage our reputation. While we disclaim any liability for third-party content in our service contracts, as a private network provider we potentially could be exposed to legal claims relating to third-party content stored or transmitted on our networks. Such claims could involve, among others, allegations of defamation, invasion of privacy, copyright infringement, or aiding and abetting restricted activities such as online gambling or pornography. Although we believe our liability for these types of claims is limited under current law, suits against other carriers have been successful and we cannot assure you that our defenses will prevail. Such third-party content could also result in adverse publicity and damage our reputation. Our pending legal proceedings could have a material adverse impact on us. There are several potentially material proceedings pending against us. Results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. As of any given date we could have exposure to losses under proceedings in excess of our accrued liability. For each of these reasons, any of the proceedings described in Note 17Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items, as well as current litigation not described therein or future litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, operating results, the trading price of our securities and our ability to access the capital markets. We can give you no assurances as to the ultimate impact of these matters on us. 26 We may not be successful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights. We rely on various patents, copyrights, trade names, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other similar intellectual property rights, as well as confidentiality agreements and procedures, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. For a variety of reasons, however, these steps may not fully protect us, including due to inherent limitations on the ability to enforce these rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights, our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have been accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of others and will likely face similar accusations in the future. We received a number of notices from third parties or have been named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing their intellectual property rights. We are currently responding to several of these notices and claims and expect this industry-wide trend will continue. If these claims succeed, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages, to cease using the applicable technology or to make royalty payments to continue using the applicable technology. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline, our operations could be materially impaired or we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Similarly, from time to time, we may need to obtain the right to use certain patents or other intellectual property from third parties to be able to offer new products and services. If we cannot obtain rights to use any required technology from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new products and services may be prohibited, restricted, made more costly or delayed. Failure to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could have a material impact on us. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 23% of our employees were members of various bargaining units represented by labor unions. Although we have agreements with these labor unions, we cannot predict the outcome of our future negotiations of these agreements. We may be unable to reach new agreements, and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services and increase our costs. Even if we succeed in reaching new or replacement agreements, they may impose significant new costs on us that impair our competitive position. Our international operations expose us to various regulatory, currency, tax, legal and other risks. Our international operations are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations regarding operations in international jurisdictions in which we provide services. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include anti-corruption laws, anti-competition laws, trade restrictions, economic sanctions, tax laws, immigration laws, privacy laws and accounting requirements. Many of these laws are complex and change frequently. There is a risk that these laws or regulations may materially restrict our ability to deliver services in various international jurisdictions or expose us to the risk of fines, penalties or license revocations if we are determined to have violated applicable laws or regulations. Many non-U.S. laws and regulations relating to communications services are more restrictive than U.S. laws and regulations, particularly those relating to privacy rights and data retention. Moreover, many countries are still in the early stages of providing for and adapting to a liberalized telecommunications market, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain licenses and conduct our operations. In addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: economic, social and political instability, with the attendant risks of terrorism, kidnapping, extortion, civic unrest and potential seizure or nationalization of assets; currency and exchange controls, repatriation restrictions and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including, without limitation, the matters outlined in Note 1 Background and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Foreign Currency; problems collecting accounts receivable; the difficulty or inability in certain jurisdictions to enforce contract or intellectual property rights; reliance on certain third parties with whom we lack extensive experience; supply chain challenges; and challenges in securing and maintaining the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure. 27 Changes in multilateral conventions, treaties, tariffs or other arrangements between or among sovereign nations could impact us. Specifically, the United Kingdom recently exited the European Union ("Brexit) subject to the negotiation of additional separation agreements with the European Union regarding data sharing, financial services and other matters. Brexit could potentially impact our supply chains, logistics, and human resources, and subject us to additional regulatory complexities. Additionally, Brexit and other changes in multilateral arrangements may more broadly adversely affect our operations and financial results. Financial Risks Our significant debt levels expose us to a broad range of risks. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $12.5 billion of outstanding consolidated secured indebtedness, $19.3 billion of outstanding consolidated unsecured indebtedness (excluding finance lease obligations, unamortized discounts, net and unamortized debt issuance costs) and $2.0 billion of unused borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility. Our significant levels of debt and related debt service obligations could adversely affect us in several respects, including: requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives and dividends; hindering our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to plan for or react to changing market, industry, competitive or economic conditions; making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged companies; making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financings or refinancings, including the risk that this could force us to sell assets or take other less desirable actions to raise capital; and increasing the risk that we may not meet the financial or non-financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or timely make all required debt payments, either of which could result in the acceleration of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness. The effects of each of these factors could be intensified if we increase our borrowings or experience any downgrade in our credit ratings or those of our affiliates. Subject to certain limitations and restrictions, the current terms of our debt instruments and our subsidiaries debt instruments permit us or them to incur additional indebtedness. We expect to periodically require financing, and we cannot assure you we will be able to obtain such financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We expect to periodically require financing in the future to refinance existing indebtedness and potentially for other purposes. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position, performance, and credit ratings, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by (i) general market conditions, such as disruptions in domestic or overseas sovereign or corporate debt markets, geo-political instabilities, trade restrictions, pandemics, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad, and (ii) specific conditions in the communications industry. Instability in the domestic or global financial markets has from time to time resulted in periodic volatility and disruptions in capital markets. For these and other reasons, we can give no assurance additional financing for any of these purposes will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 28 If we are unable to make required debt payments or refinance our debt, we would likely have to consider other options, such as selling assets, issuing additional securities, reducing or terminating our dividend payments, cutting or delaying costs or otherwise reducing our cash requirements, or negotiating with our lenders to restructure our applicable debt. Our current and future debt instruments may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to complete some of these actions on favorable terms, or at all. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you we could implement these steps in a sufficient or timely manner, or at all. We have a highly complex debt structure, which could impact the rights of our investors. Lumen Technologies, Inc. and various of its subsidiaries owe substantial sums pursuant to various debt and financing arrangements, certain of which are guaranteed by other principal subsidiaries. Almost half of the debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc. is guaranteed by certain of its principal domestic subsidiaries, some of which have pledged substantially all of their assets (including certain of their respective subsidiaries) to secure their guarantees. The remainder of the debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc. is neither guaranteed nor secured. Nearly half of the debt of Level 3 Financing, Inc. is (i) secured by a pledge of substantially all of its assets and (ii) guaranteed on a secured basis by certain of its affiliates. The remainder of the debt of Level 3 Financing, Inc. is not secured by any of its assets, but is guaranteed by certain of its affiliates. Substantial amounts of debt are also owed by two direct or indirect subsidiaries of Qwest Communications International Inc. and by Embarq Corporation and one of its subsidiaries. Most of the approximately 400 subsidiaries of Lumen Technologies, Inc. have neither borrowed money nor guaranteed any of the debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc. or its affiliates. As such, investors in our consolidated debt instruments should be aware that (i) determining the priority of their rights as creditors is a complex matter which is substantially dependent upon the assets and earning power of the entities that issued or guaranteed (if any) the applicable debt and (ii) a substantial portion of such debt is structurally subordinated to all liabilities of the non-guarantor subsidiaries of Lumen Technologies, Inc. to the extent of the value of those subsidiaries that are obligors. Our various debt agreements include restrictions and covenants that could (i) limit our ability to conduct operations or borrow additional funds, (ii) restrict our ability to engage in inter-company transactions, and (iii) lead to the acceleration of our repayment obligations in certain instances . Under our consolidated debt and financing arrangements the issuer of the debt is subject to various covenants and restrictions, the most restrictive of which pertain to the debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc. and Level 3 Financing, Inc. Lumen Technologies, Inc.s senior secured credit facilities and secured notes contain several significant limitations restricting Lumen Technologies, Inc.s ability to, among other things, borrow additional money or issue guarantees; pay dividends or other distributions to shareholders; make loans; create liens on assets; sell assets; transact with our affiliates and engage in mergers or consolidations. These restrictive covenants could materially adversely affect our ability to operate or reconfigure our business, to pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic transactions, or to otherwise pursue our plans and strategies. The debt and financing arrangements of Level 3 Financing, Inc. contain substantially similar limitations that restrict their operations on a standalone basis as a separate restricted group. Consequently, certain of these covenants may significantly restrict our ability to receive cash from Level 3, to distribute cash from Level 3 to other of our affiliated entities, or to enter into other transactions among our wholly-owned entities. Lumen Technologies, Inc.s senior secured credit facilities and senior secured notes, as well as the term loan debt of Qwest Corporation also contain financial maintenance covenants. The failure of Lumen Technologies, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries to comply with the above-described restrictive or financial covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our debt repayment obligations. Certain of our debt instruments have cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. 29 Our cash flows may not adequately fund all of our cash requirements. Our business is capital intensive. We expect to continue to require significant cash to maintain, upgrade and expand our network infrastructure as a result of several factors, including (i) changes in customers service requirements; (ii) our continuing need to expand and improve our network to remain competitive; and (iii) our regulatory commitments. We will also continue to need substantial amounts of cash to meet our fixed commitments and other business objectives, including without limitation funding our operating costs, maintenance expenses, debt repayments, tax obligations, periodic pension contributions and other benefits payments. We cannot assure you our future cash flows from operating activities will be sufficient to fund all of our cash requirements in the manner currently contemplated. As a holding company, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and their distribution of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or other payments. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate cash flows in amounts sufficient to fund our obligations, including the payment of our long-term debt. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us, except to the extent they have guaranteed such payments. Similarly, subject to limited exceptions for tax-sharing or cash management purposes, our subsidiaries have no obligation to make any funds available to us to repay our obligations, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. As discussed in greater detail elsewhere herein, restrictions imposed by credit instruments or other agreements applicable to Level 3 and certain of our other subsidiaries limit the amount of funds our subsidiaries are permitted to transfer to us, including the amount of dividends that may be paid to us. Moreover, our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. In addition, the laws under which our subsidiaries were organized typically restrict the amount of dividends they may pay. The ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds could be further restricted under applicable tax laws or state regulatory orders or regulations. For all these reasons, you should not assume our subsidiaries will be able in the future to generate and distribute to us cash in amounts sufficient to fund our cash requirements. We cannot assure you we will continue paying dividends at the current rates, or at all. We cannot assure you we will continue periodic dividends on our capital stock at the current rates, or at all. From time to time, our board has reduced our dividend rate, including reductions in 2019 and 2013. Any quarterly dividends on our common stock and our outstanding shares of preferred stock will be paid from funds legally available for such purpose when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to continue making any future dividend distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of our Board of Directors, which reserves the right to change or terminate our dividend practices at any time and for any reason without prior notice. Holders of our equity securities should be aware they have no contractual or other legal right to receive dividends. Similarly, holders of our common stock should be aware repurchases of our common stock under any repurchase plan then in effect are completely discretionary and may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason regardless of our financial position. We may not be able to fully utilize our NOLs. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $5.1 billion of federal Net Operating Losses ("NOLs"), which are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations. These limitations could restrict our ability to use these NOLs in the amounts we project. In an effort to safeguard our NOLs, we have maintained an NOL rights agreement since February 2019. At December 31, 2020, we also had substantial state NOLs and foreign NOLs which we believe are subject to legal and practical limitations on our ability to realize their full benefit. We cannot assure you we will be able to utilize these NOLs as projected or at all. 30 Increases in costs for pension and healthcare benefits for our active and retired employees may have a material impact on us. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 33,000 active employees participating in our company-sponsored benefit plans, approximately 63,000 active and retired employees and surviving spouses eligible for post-retirement healthcare benefits, approximately 65,000 pension retirees and approximately 10,000 former employees with vested pension benefits. As of such date, our pension plans and our other post-retirement benefit plans were substantially underfunded from an accounting standpoint. The cost to fund the pension and healthcare benefit plans for our active and retired employees has a significant impact on our profitability. Our costs of maintaining our pension and healthcare plans, and the future funding requirements for these plans, are affected by several factors, including investment returns on funds held by our applicable plan trusts; changes in prevailing interest rates and discount rates or other factors used to calculate the funding status of our plans; increases in healthcare costs generally or claims submitted under our healthcare plans specifically; the longevity and payment elections of our plan participants; changes in plan benefits; and the impact of the continuing implementation, modification or potential repeal of current federal healthcare and pension funding laws and regulations promulgated thereunder. If interest rates remain depressed for sustained periods, our plan funding costs could substantially increase. Increased costs under these plans could reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments to our pension plans. See Note 10Employee Benefits for additional information regarding the funded status of our pension plans and our other post-retirement benefit plans. Reform of financing benchmarks, including London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), is ongoing and could have a material adverse effect on us. LIBOR and other interest rate and other types of indices which are deemed to be financing benchmarks are the subject of ongoing international regulatory reform, with the initial phase of the non-publication of LIBOR data scheduled to begin on December 1, 2021. Any changes announced by regulators or any other governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted thereby, regarding the continuing use or method of determining LIBOR rates may impact our interest costs. Although we believe our variable rate indebtedness provides for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable on such indebtedness if LIBOR is not reported, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may adversely affect the value of our variable rate indebtedness. In addition, uncertainty regarding the nature of these changes or alternative reference rates could cause market disruptions for variable-rate debt instruments or increase our cost of debt. Lapses in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect us. We maintain (i) disclosure