Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factor Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, which could cause our actual results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: Risks Related to our Business unfavorable economic and market conditions; our reliance on a limited number of suppliers and customers; failure of banking institutions and liquidity concerns at other financial institutions; our backlog may not be an accurate indicator of our level and timing of future revenue; our gross margins and operating margins may vary overtime; challenges relating to supply chain constraints; changes in technology and intense competition; our ability to sell to a significant customer, as well as tariffs and other trade restrictions between the U.S. and China; the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and responsive measures; our international operations structure; volatility and maintenance of our real property portfolio; our ability to timely procure components needed to manufacture our products; our ability to manufacture our products; our leverage in negotiations with large customers; defects in our products; order cancellations, reductions or delays in delivery schedules by our customers or distributors; changes in laws and the adoption and interpretation of administrative rules and regulations, including U.S. and international customs and export regulations; our strategic transactions and implementation strategy for our acquisitions; changes in spending levels, demand and customer requirements for our products; restructuring and related charges; changes in tax laws; fluctuations in foreign currency; our future capital requirements; actual or perceived security or privacy breaches or incidents, as well as defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our technology and that of third-party providers; 12 the unpredictability of our results of operations; our ability to protect our product and proprietary rights; factors relating to our intellectual property rights as well as the intellectual property rights of others; and litigation risks, including intellectual property litigation; our reliance on licensed third-party technology; and our ability to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting Risks Related to Human Capital our ability to hire and retain key personnel; and the effects of immigration policy on our ability to hire and retain employees Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Compliance our ability to obtain government authorization to export our products; and changes in social and environmental responsibility regulations, policies and provisions, as well as customer and investor demands Risks Related to Our Common Stock the volatility of the trading price of our common stock; our ability to service our current and future debt; dilution related to our convertible notes; our intention not to pay dividends for the foreseeable future; provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult; and exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomics and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Current and future conditions in the global economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction of the global economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors, and regions of the economy, including the markets in which we participate. All aspects of our forecasts depend on estimates of growth or contraction in the markets we serve. Our business and operating results depend significantly on general market and economic conditions. The current global macroeconomic environment is volatile and continues to be significantly and adversely impacted by uncertainty in the banking and financial services sector, global supply chain constraints, inflation, and a dynamic demand environment. Additionally, instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding inflation, banking instability, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, stock market volatility, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world (including as a result of the on-going Russia-Ukraine war, and China-Taiwan relations), the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. 13 Adverse changes to and uncertainty in the global economy has affected industries in which our customers operate and has resulted in decreases in the rate of demand, consumption or use of certain of our customers products which, in turn, may result in decreased demand for our products, revenue fluctuations, increased price competition for our products, and increased the risk of excess and obsolete inventories as well as higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. Additionally, customers who had built up large inventories when supply chains were tight are now bringing down inventories as supply constraints are easing and in some cases these customers have delayed projected shipments. These losses or delays of orders have harmed our revenue and profitability and future losses or delays may further harm our results of operations. The impact of economic challenges on the global financial markets could further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, the solvency of our key suppliers or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. Further, supply chain disruptions have led and may continue to lead to increased costs and have harmed and may continue to harm our ability to meet customer demand, adversely affecting our revenue and profitability. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, our prospects for growth may be negatively impacted, and we may experience material and adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials, packages and components, and any failure or delay by these suppliers in meeting our requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase raw materials, packages and components from a limited number of suppliers, who are often small and specialized. Additionally, some of our suppliers are our sole sources for certain materials, equipment and components. We depend on the timely and continued supply and quality of the materials, packages and components that our suppliers supply to us. We have not entered into long-term agreements with many of these suppliers. We do not have a guarantee of supply from these suppliers and as a result, there is no assurance that we would be able to secure the equipment or components that we require, in sufficient quantity, quality and on reasonable terms. Our business and results of operations have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by this dependency. Alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any sole supplier will adversely affect our business are not feasible in all circumstances. If we were to lose any one of these or other critical sources, or there is as an industry-wide increase in demand for, or the discontinuation of, raw materials used in our products, it could be difficult for us, or we may be unable, to find an alternative supplier or raw material, in which case our operations could be adversely affected. Specific concerns we periodically encounter with our sole suppliers or limited number of suppliers include receipt of defective parts or contaminated materials, stoppages or delays of supply, insufficient resources to supply our requirements, substitution of more expensive or less reliable materials, increases in the price of supplies, and an inability to obtain reduced pricing from our suppliers in response to competitive pressures. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic and related supply chain disruptions and labor market constraints have created heightened risk that sole suppliers or limited number of suppliers may be unable to meet their obligations to us. Difficulties in obtaining the materials, or services used in the conduct of our business or additional fees or higher prices to do so, have adversely affected our revenue and results of operations, and further challenges or decisions to seek alternate suppliers to secure supply in order to meet demand would increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Our financial results may be adversely affected due to changes in product demand impacted by recessions, inflation, increases in interest rates, stagflation and other economic conditions. Customer demand for our products may be impacted by weak economic conditions, inflation, stagflation, recessionary or lower-growth environments, rising interest rates, equity market volatility or other negative economic factors in the U.S. or other countries. For example, under these conditions or expectation of such conditions, our customers may cancel orders, delay purchasing decisions or reduce their use of our services. In addition, these economic conditions could result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges from our contract manufacturers if we need to slow production to reduce inventory levels. Further, in the event of a recession or threat of a recession our contract manufacturers, suppliers and other third-party partners may suffer their own financial and economic challenges and as a result they may demand pricing accommodations, delay payment, or become insolvent, which could harm our ability to meet our customer demands or collect revenue or otherwise could harm our business. Similarly, disruptions in financial and/or credit markets may impact our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our contract manufacturers, customers, suppliers and creditors and might cause us to not be able to continue to access preferred sources of liquidity when we would like, and our borrowing costs could increase. Thus, if the current economic conditions continue to deteriorate or experience a sustained period of weakness or slower growth, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, we are also subject to risk from inflation and increasing market prices of certain components, supplies, and raw materials, which are incorporated into our products or used by our manufacturing partners or suppliers to manufacture our products. These components, supplies and commodities have from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions have affected pricing of such components, supplies and raw materials (such as inflation or supply chain constraints), and future restrictions or market conditions impacting pricing may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 14 Unstable market and economic conditions and adverse developments with respect to financial institutions and associated liquidity risk may have serious adverse consequences on our business and financial condition. The recent and potential future disruptions in access to bank deposits or lending commitments due to bank failures could materially and adversely affect our liquidity, our business and financial condition. Even with our continued effort to mitigate counterparty risk by working with highly liquid, well capitalized counterparties, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available for our operations or delay our ability to access such funds. Any such failure may increase the possibility of a sustained deterioration of financial market liquidity. The value of our investment portfolio could also be impacted if we hold debt instruments which were issued by any institutions that fail or become illiquid. Our ability to obtain raw materials for our supply chain and collections of cash from sales may be unduly impacted if any of our vendors or customers are affected by illiquidity events. Our backlog may not be an accurate indicator of our level and timing of future revenues. Our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results. For example, as a result of product order volume growth in prior periods and industry-wide supply challenges due to both constrained manufacturing capacity as well as shortages of component parts, our backlog grew and remained elevated in fiscal 2022 and 2023. As customer buying patterns normalize, order growth moderates, and supply chain conditions improve, we expect our backlog to reduce to a level generally in line with historical levels. Further, customer behaviors have been changing as a result of worldwide macroeconomic factors, which has reduced demand and may continue to reduce demand for certain of our products and services. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of these supply challenges and behavioral changes effectively, or if general macroeconomic conditions or conditions in the industries in which we operate deteriorate, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time. We expect our product and gross margins are expected to vary, and margins may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including, but not limited to, an increase or decrease in demand of our products, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, modifications to our pricing strategy to gain or retain footprint in markets or with customers, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products to our customers, inflation, increases in material, labor, manufacturing, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs, issues with manufacturing or component availability, issues relating to the distribution of our products, quality or efficiencies, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inaccurately forecasting product demand or underutilization of manufacturing capacity, warranty related issues, the impact of tariffs, or our introduction of new products and enhancements, or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. We have seen, and may continue to see, our gross margins negatively impacted by increases in component costs, logistics costs, elevated inventory balances, and inflationary pressures, as well as pricing pressure. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Challenges relating to current supply chain constraints, including semiconductor components, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to increased demand across a range of industries, our business and customers businesses have experienced and could experience supply constraints due to both constrained manufacturing capacity, as well as component parts shortages. These supply constraints have adversely affected and could further affect availability, lead-times and cost of components, and could increase the likelihood of unexpected cancellations or delays of previously committed supply of key components. These challenges have resulted in extended lead-times to our customers and have had a negative impact on our ability to recognize associated revenue and have resulted in and may continue to result in an increase in accelerated ordering for certain of our products. As a result of accelerated ordering, our customers have had inventory backlog that they are now managing down, resulting in reduced ordering as compared to recent levels. Ordering patters may be difficult to predict and we have experienced and may continue to experience negative impacts to our revenue and profitability as well as our ability to achieve our forecasts. We continue to work with our suppliers to ensure that we are able to continue manufacturing and distributing our products, and in the quantities requested by our customers; however, if we continue to experience disruption to our supply chain, it could impact our operations. For example, in the first half of fiscal year 2023, we incurred incremental supply and procurement costs in order to increase our ability to fulfill demands from our customers. Continued disruption in the supply of the raw materials, packaging or components used in the manufacture and delivery of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Limits on manufacturing availability or capacity or delays in production or delivery of components or raw materials could further delay or inhibit our ability to obtain supply of components and produce finished goods inventory. Although the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is lessening, there can be no assurance that the supply chain impacts will not occur in the future. These supply chain constraints and their related challenges could result in shortages, increased material costs or use of cash, engineering design changes, and delays in new product introductions, each of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changing technology and intense competition require us to continuously innovate while controlling product costs, and our failure to do so may result in decreased revenues and profitability. The markets in which we operate are dynamic and complex, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver both our current product offerings and new products and technologies on time and at acceptable prices to our customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements, continued price pressures and a constantly evolving industry. Historically, these pricing pressures have led to a continued decline of average selling prices across our business and we expect that these historical trends will continue. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and the accurate prediction of technology and market trends. The introduction of new products also often requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, the benefit of which may not be realized if we are not successful in the production of such products or if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of new product introductions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. We also cannot assure you that potential markets for our new products will materialize on the timelines we anticipate, or at all, or that our technology will meet our customers specifications. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, deployment and market acceptance of new and enhanced features and products that meet our customers current and future needs. Future demand for our products is uncertain and will primarily depend on continued technological development and the introduction of new or enhanced products. If this does not continue, sales of our products may decline which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market for optical communications products in particular has matured over time and these products have increasingly become subject to commoditization. Both legacy competitors as well as new entrants, predominantly Asia-based competitors, have intensified market competition in recent years leading to pricing pressure. To preserve our revenues and product margin structures, we remain reliant on an integrated customer and market approach that anticipates end customer needs as requirements evolve. We also must continue to develop more advanced, differentiated products that command a premium with customers, while conversely continuing to focus on streamlining product costs for established legacy products. If we fail to continue to develop enhanced or new products that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins, or over time are unable to adjust our cost structure to continue to competitively price more mature products, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales; and the majority of our customers do not have contractual purchase commitments. We have consistently relied on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and in certain of our markets, such as imaging and sensing and commercial lasers, this customer concentration is particularly acute. We expect that this customer concentration will continue in the future, and we expect that our financial performance in certain business lines and growth prospects will continue to depend in part on a small number of customers. Many of our customers purchase products under purchase orders or under contracts that do not contain volume or long-term purchase commitments. Therefore, these customers may alter their purchasing behavior with little or no notice to us for various reasons, including developing, or, in the case of our distributors, their customers developing, their own product solutions; choosing to purchase or distribute product from our competitors; incorrectly forecasting end market demand for their products; or experiencing a reduction in their market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. Additionally, increased inventory at our customers has impacted our revenue, as our customers have decided to lower their inventory levels and these impacts are expected to continue in the near term and in future periods. As a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. For example, we have from time-to-time experienced excess and obsolete charges due to customer transitions to the next generation of products. We may also experience increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. In addition, customers provide us with their expected forecasts for our products several months in advance, but these customers may decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place, including on short notice, or may experience financial difficulty which affects their ability to pay for products, particularly in light of the global macroeconomic uncertainty, and have done so from time to time, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a limited number of large customers. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and in recent periods have become increasingly focused on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased or timing of purchases) of our key customers, or any real or perceived quality issues related to the products that we sell to such customers, have led to decreased sales to such customers or delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which has unfavorably impacted our revenues and operating results, and may continue to impact our business and results of operations. We may also experience pricing pressure with certain of our customers that may adversely affect our revenue and margins, or, if the ongoing relationship no longer benefits us, we may decide to suspend or terminate our relationship with such customers. There are also continuing trade tensions, including an uncertain regulatory environment, in the U.S. and countries in Asia, which have impacted and could continue to materially impact our sales to key customers in these regions. Further, we may be required to purchase raw materials, increase production capacity or make other changes to our business to accommodate certain large customers. If forecasted orders do not materialize, we may need to reduce investment in R&D activities, we may fail to optimize our manufacturing capacity and incur charges for such underutilization, we may incur liabilities with our suppliers for reimbursement of capital expenditures, or we may have excess inventory. In addition, if we incur expenses in response to forecasted demand and do not have a corresponding increase in revenue, our profitability may suffer. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to sell our products to a significant customer has been restricted. In August 2020, the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce (BIS) issued final rules that further restricted access by Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. to items produced domestically and abroad from U.S. technology and software. The final rules prevent us from selling certain products to Huawei entities without a license issued subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). Further, even if there are products unaffected by the rule or for which we are able to obtain an export license, Huawei may not be able to source products from other suppliers due to the final rules, which could impact Huaweis demand for our products. We are dependent upon our ability to obtain export licenses, or exceptions to export license requirements, from U.S. and other foreign regulatory agencies. There is no assurance that we will be issued these licenses or be granted exceptions, and failure to obtain such licenses or exceptions could limit our ability to sell our products into certain countries and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Under the current regulatory regime, our business with Huawei has been and will continue to be more limited than it was in the past. For example, we have been unable to supply certain additional products and may be limited or unable to work with Huawei on future product developments while Huawei remains on the Entity List, which has negatively impacted our revenue from Huawei and may further negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Huawei may seek to obtain similar or substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions, or to develop similar or substitute products themselves. 17 We cannot be certain what additional actions the U.S. government may take with respect to Huawei or other entities in China or other countries, including additional changes to the Entity List restrictions, export regulations, tariffs or other trade restrictions. We are unable to predict the duration of the restrictions enacted in May 2019 and thereafter, including the restrictions on Huaweis access to foreign-made chips made using U.S. technology which could have a long-term adverse effect on our business. The U.S. government has added other customers of ours to the Entity List, such as FiberHome Technologies Group in May 2020, and may continue to do so or otherwise restrict our ability to ship products which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2021, BIS added other China-based technology companies into the Entity List, including seven supercomputing companies in April 2021 and twenty-three more entities located in China in July 2021, thereby further expanding the scope of companies subject to trade restrictions. BIS makes periodic updates to the Entity List, with some recent additions tied to super computing and artificial intelligence. We also manufacture customized products for Huawei, and therefore may be unable to sell certain finished goods inventory to alternative customers or may be unable to utilize such manufacturing capabilities for products for alternative customers, which may result in further excess and obsolete inventory charges and/or underutilized capacity charges in future periods. In addition, we sell various non-customized products to Huawei in which Huawei represents a significant portion of the related products demand. We have taken charges, and may have significant future charges, for common components which become excess as a result of the inability to sell to Huawei. Future charges related to trade restrictions could be caused by either additional regulatory restrictions enacted with respect to Huawei, or revisions to our estimates of the impact from already-enacted restrictions. Additional charges may also occur with respect to customized products that we manufacture for other customers in the event that such customers were to be added to the Entity List or otherwise if our ability to sell to such customers were restricted. We believe this trade uncertainty has caused and may in the future cause delays or cancellations, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results. Our business operations, financial performance, results of operations, financial position and the achievement of our strategic objectives has been affected, and may be materially and adversely affected by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and responsive actions thereto. The COVID-19 pandemic and related countermeasures have, and may continue to have, an impact on the global economy and continues to cause macroeconomic uncertainty. Governmental authorities around the globe implemented, and may again in the future implement, numerous and evolving measures in response to the virus. We continue to monitor and evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business operations on a regional, national, and global basis. We have reopened our facilities world-wide for office-based employees in a new office/hybrid model based on considerations regarding the health and safety of our employees and guidance of local and national governments. Although countries around the world largely reopened in 2022, there remains uncertainty and any future constraints, limitations or modifications imposed on our operations or business practices, or those of our suppliers, may limit our ability to meet customer demand, cause us to increase our safety stock of certain materials, reduce our productivity, slow or diminish our research and development activities, make our products less competitive, or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers and delay customer qualification activities, any of which could harm our business, reduce our profitability or have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is lessening, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to successfully identify, manage and mitigate the economic disruption impacts of any future widespread health crises, including as a result of any variants of COVID-19. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and financial performance depends on many factors that are not within our control, including, but not limited, to: governmental, business and individuals actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic (including restrictions on travel and transport and workforce pressures particularly in China); the impact of the pandemic and actions taken in response on global and regional economies, travel, and economic activity; general economic uncertainty in key global markets and financial market volatility, including increasing levels of inflation in the United States; global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; and the ongoing pace of recovery as the COVID-19 pandemic subsides (including the availability and efficacy of treatments and vaccines and the impact of new variants on recovery). In addition, the global economic volatility has significantly impacted the foreign exchange markets, and the currencies of various countries in which we operate and in which we have significant volume of local-currency denominated expenses have seen significant volatility. While the effects of COVID-19 pandemic are lessening, the magnitude of the impact of COVID-19 on our business operations remains uncertain and difficult to predict, and the situation remains highly dynamic. We have experienced and will continue to experience in subsequent periods, disruptions to our business that will adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Intense competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues, margins and market share. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems, components and laser diodes are highly competitive and the intensity of such competition is increasing. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international public and private companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. As we expand into new markets, we face competition not only from our existing competitors, but also from new competitors, including existing companies with strong technological and sales positions in those markets. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors, particularly, in light of increasing consolidation. Our competitors may continue to enter markets or gain or retain market share through introduction of new or improved products or with aggressive low pricing strategies that may impact the efficacy of our approach. These competitors may be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Additionally, the merger or consolidation of significant competitors, for example, II-VIs acquisition of Finisar in September of 2019 and its acquisition of Coherent in July, 2022, the acquisition of Acacia Communications by Cisco in March 2021, and the acquisition of OSRAM by AMS in December 2019, have resulted in competitors with greater resources, which may enable them to offer a different market approach, or a lower cost structure through economies of scale or other efficiencies that we may be unable to match and which may intensify competition in the various markets. Further, our competitors may seek to vertically integrate by buying suppliers that also supply products or components to us, which could enable them to further reduce prices, or could increase our costs. Our current or potential customers may also determine to develop and produce products for their own use which may be competitive to our products. Such vertical integration could reduce the market opportunity for our products. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We derive a majority of our revenue from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. In addition, we have extensive international manufacturing capabilities through third-party contract manufacturers, as well as through our own international facilities, with employees engaged in R&D, administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities. As a result of our international operations, in addition to similar risks we face in our U.S. operations, we are affected by economic, business, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: adverse social, political and economic conditions, such as inflation, rising interest rates and risk of global or regional recession; effects of adverse changes in currency rates; impacts related to business disruptions and restrictions related to COVID-19, including supply chain disruptions and labor shortages and differential impacts in different regions and geographies; changes in general IT spending; less effective protection of intellectual property; the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; 19 changes in or limitations imposed by trade protection laws or other regulatory orders or requirements in the United States or in other countries, including tariffs, sanctions, or other costs or requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries or increase the cost to do so, including government action to restrict our ability to sell to foreign customers where sales of products may require export licenses (such as the U.S. Department of Commerces addition of Huawei to the Entity List in May 2019, the addition of FiberHome in May 2020, amendment to the Foreign-Produced Direct Product Rule in August 2020 and the prohibition of export and sale of certain products to ZTE Corporation in early 2018)); the restrictions in China on the export of gallium and germanium; and increased tariffs on various products that have been proposed by the U.S. government and other non-U.S. governments; the imposition of sanctions on customers in China may cause those customers to seek domestic alternatives to our products, including developing alternatives internally, and our customers demand for our products could be impacted by their inability to obtain other materials subject to sanctions. For example, sanctions on sales to certain parties of U.S. semiconductors and semiconductor equipment has caused a delay in 5G deployment in China while the affected companies seek alternative solutions, which has reduced the demand for our products from some of our Chinese customers; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; overlapping, differing or more burdensome tax structure and laws; markets for 5G infrastructure not developing in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate, including as a result of unfavorable developments with evolving laws and regulations worldwide; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; the impact of recessions and other economic conditions in economies outside the United States, including, for example, dips in the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index as well as the Institute for Supply Management data in the Eurozone; tax and customs changes that adversely impact our global sourcing strategy, manufacturing practices, transfer-pricing, or competitiveness of our products for global sales; volatility in oil prices and increased costs, or limited supply of other natural resources; political developments, geopolitical unrest or other conflicts in foreign nations, including Brexit, the war in Ukraine and political developments in Hong Kong and Taiwan and the potential impact such developments or further actions could have on our customers in the markets in which we operate; and the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns as well as our contract and internal manufacturing: political considerations, changes in or delays in government budgeting processes, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, unfavorable events that affect foreign currencies on an absolute or relative basis, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations Additionally, our business is impacted by fluctuations in local economies and currencies. Global economic volatility has significantly impacted the foreign exchange markets, and the currencies of various countries in which we operate and have significant volume of local-currency denominated expenses have seen significant volatility. We expect such volatility to continue, which could negatively impact our results by making our non-U.S. operations more expensive when reported in U.S. dollars, primarily due to the costs of payroll. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the United States or other countries in which we operate. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationships with customers and suppliers, financial reporting problems, fines and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Like most other multinational companies, we are also highly dependent upon the ability to ship products to customers and to receive shipments from our suppliers. In the event of a disruption in the worldwide or regional shipping infrastructure, our access to supplies and our ability to deliver products to customers would correspondingly be negatively impacted. As a result of shipping disruptions, we have experienced among other things, increased costs to ship products and delays in receiving components and any disruption in the future would likely materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition to the above risks related to our international operations, we also face risks related to health epidemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. An outbreak of a contagious disease, and other adverse public health developments, particularly in Asia, could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. The effects could include restrictions on our ability to travel to support our sites in Asia or our customers located there, disruptions in our ability to distribute products, and/or temporary closures of our facilities in Asia or the facilities of our suppliers or customers and their contract manufacturers. For additional information regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our business, refer to the risk factor above titled Our business operations, financial performance, results of operations, financial position and the achievement of our strategic objectives may be materially and adversely affected by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and responsive actions thereto. In the past, these and similar risks have disrupted our operations and the operations of our suppliers, customers and contract manufacturers and increased our costs, and we expect that they may do so in the future. Any or all of these factors could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. Our buildings subject us to the risks of owning real property, which include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in the value of these properties due to economic conditions, the movement by many companies to a hybrid work environment, interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving or to renovating the facility; increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property, or both; increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property, or both; and the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and/or other natural disasters. The manufacturing of our products may be adversely affected if we are unable to manufacture certain products in our manufacturing facilities or if our contract manufacturers and suppliers fail to meet our production requirements. We manufacture some of our finished good products as well as some of the components that we provide to our contract manufacturers in our China, Japan, Thailand, United Kingdom, and San Jose, California manufacturing facilities. For some of the components and finished good products, we are the sole manufacturer. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, and issues are often difficult to detect and correct. From time to time we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields in our manufacturing facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of our products and inability to meet customer demand. In addition, if we experience problems with our manufacturing facilities or are unable to continue operations at any of these sites, including as a result of social, geopolitical, environmental or health factors, damage caused by natural disasters, or other problems or events beyond our control, including pandemics or widespread health epidemics such as COVID-19, it would be costly and require a long period of time to move the manufacture of these components and finished good products to a different facility or contract manufacturer which could then result in interruptions in supply, and would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.Our manufacturing is heavily concentrated in regions in Asia, and we would be severely impacted if there were further escalation of COVID-19 or related restrictions imposed by governments or private industry in that region. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2022, we experienced a temporary factory closure in China as a result of an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, as required by local government mandates. 21 We also rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain products. For many products, a particular contract manufacturer may be the sole source of the finished good products. We depend on these manufacturers to meet our production and capacity requirements and to provide quality products to our customers. There are a number of risks associated with our reliance on contract manufacturers including: reduced control over delivery schedules and planning; availability of manufacturing capability and capacity, particularly during periods of high demand; reliance on the quality assurance procedures of third parties; risks associated with data security breaches or cyber-attacks targeting our contract manufacturers, including manufacturing disruptions or unauthorized access to information; and potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. Additionally, if operations at these contract manufacturers are adversely impacted, such as by natural disasters, or restrictions due to COVID-19 disruptions or any resulting economic impact to their business, this would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to control the quality of products produced by contract manufacturers has and may in the future be impaired by pandemics or widespread health epidemics disruptions such as COVID-19, and quality issues might not be resolved in a timely manner. Additionally, if our contract manufacturers continue experiencing disruptions or discontinue operations, we may be required to identify and qualify alternative manufacturers, which is expensive and time consuming. If we are required to change or qualify a new contract manufacturer, this would likely cause business disruptions and adversely affect our results of operations and could harm our existing customer relationships. Despite rigorous testing for quality, both by us and the contract manufacturers to whom we sell products, we may receive and ship defective products. We may incur significant costs to correct defective products which could result in the loss of future sales and revenue, indemnification costs or costs to replace or repair the defective products, litigation and damage to our reputation and customer relations. Defective products may also cause diversion of management attention from our business and product development efforts. Our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers may be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, typhoons, tsunamis, fires and public health crises, including a global pandemic such as COVID-19, changes in legal requirements, labor strikes and other labor unrest and economic, political or other forces that are beyond our control. For example, in the past one of our former contract manufacturers experienced a labor strike which threatened the contract manufacturers ability to fulfill its product commitments to us and, in turn, our ability to fulfill our obligations to our customers. We are heavily dependent on a small number of manufacturing sites. Our business and operations would be severely impacted by any significant business disruptions for which we may not receive adequate recovery from insurance. There is also an increased focus on corporate social and environmental responsibility in our industry. As a result, a number of our customers may adopt policies that include social and environmental responsibility provisions that their suppliers should comply with. These provisions may be difficult and expensive to comply with, given the complexity of our supply chain. We may be unable to cause our suppliers or contract manufacturers to comply with these provisions which may adversely affect our relationships with customers. In addition, for a variety of reasons, including changes in circumstances at our contract manufacturers, restrictions or inability to operate, or regarding our own business strategies, we may choose or be required to transfer the manufacturing of certain products to other manufacturing sites, including to our own manufacturing facilities. As a result of such transfers, our contract manufacturers may prioritize other customers or otherwise be unable or unwilling to meet our demand. There also may be delays with the transfer of manufacturing equipment and successfully setting up that equipment at the transfer sites and training new operators. If such transfers are unsuccessful or take a longer period of time than expected, it could result in interruptions in supply and supply chain and would likely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers are not cancellable which may impact our results of operations if customer forecasts driving these purchase commitments do not materialize and we are unable to sell the products to other customers. We may also incur charges if we do not utilize our allocated manufacturing capacity which would increase our costs and decrease our margins. Alternatively, our contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our demand which would inhibit our ability to meet our customers demands and maintain or grow our revenues. Furthermore, it could be costly and require a long period of time to move products from one contract manufacturer to another which could result in interruptions in supply and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Further, certain of our suppliers are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with Chinese laws and regulations and U.S. laws, regulations and policies with respect to China, such as those related to import and export policies, tariffs, taxation and intellectual property. Chinese laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and if our suppliers are unable to obtain or retain the requisite legal permits or otherwise to comply with Chinese legal requirements, we may be forced to obtain products from other manufacturers or to make other operational changes, including transferring our manufacturing to another manufacturer or to our own manufacturing facilities. In addition, many of our products are sourced from suppliers based outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. Uncertainty with respect to our suppliers abilities due to COVID-19 impacts, tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries has recently increased. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of tariffs on imported products, for example, tariffs on the import of certain products manufactured in China, could increase our product and product-related costs or require us to seek alternative suppliers, either of which could result in decreased sales or increased product and product-related costs. Any such developments could have a material impact on our ability to meet our customers expectations and may materially impact our operating results and financial condition. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer. Certain of our customers do not purchase products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with certain of our customers. Some of our customers require that our manufacturing lines pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards. We may encounter quality control issues as a result of setting up new manufacturing lines in our facilities, relocating our manufacturing lines or introducing new products to fill production. We may be unable to obtain, or we may experience delays in obtaining, customer qualification of our manufacturing lines. If we introduce new contract manufacturing partners and move any production lines from existing internal or external facilities, the new production lines will likely need to be re-qualified with our customers. Any delays or failure to obtain qualifications would harm our reputation, operating results, and customer relationships. We contract with a number of large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies that have considerable bargaining power, which may require us to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. Large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies comprise a significant portion of our customer base. These customers generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers, including us. As we seek to expand our sales to existing customers and acquire new customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are favorable to our customers and that may affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, large customers have increased buying power and ability to require onerous terms in our contracts with them, including pricing, warranties, and indemnification terms. If we are unable to satisfy the terms of these contracts, it could result in liabilities of a material nature, including litigation, damages, additional costs, loss of market share and loss of reputation. Additionally, the terms these large customers require, such as most-favored nation or exclusivity provisions, may impact our ability to do business with other customers and generate revenues from such customers. 23 Our products may contain defects that could cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in loss of customers. Our products are complex, and defects and quality issues are found from time to time. Networking products in particular frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties, which may contain defects. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and manufacturing resources, and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, or risk exposure to product liability suits, all of which would harm our business. Additionally, changes in our or our suppliers' manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve and maintain our projected yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. Adverse changes in political, regulatory and economic policies, including the threat of increasing tariffs, particularly to goods traded between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Regulatory activity, such as tariffs, export controls, and economic sanctions laws have in the past and may continue to materially limit our ability to make sales to customers in China, which has in the past and may continue to harm our results of operations and financial condition. Since the beginning of 2018, there has been rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding instituting tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials. More specifically, since 2018, the United States and China applied or proposed to apply tariffs to certain of each others exports, and we expect these actions to continue for the foreseeable future. Adverse regulatory activity, such as export controls, economic sanctions and the institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the United States and China specifically carries the risk of negatively impacting overall economic conditions, which could have negative repercussions on our industry and our business. Moreover, to the extent the governments of China, the United States or other countries seek to promote use of domestically produced products or to reduce the dependence upon or use of products from another (sometimes referred to as decoupling), they may adopt or apply regulations or policies that have the effect of reducing business opportunities for us. Such actions may take the form of specific restrictions on particular customers, products, technology areas, or business combinations. For example, in the area of investments and mergers and acquisitions, the United States has recently announced new requirements for approval by the United States government of outbound investments; and the approval by China regulatory authorities is required for business combinations of companies that conduct business in China over specific thresholds, regardless of where those businesses are based. Restrictions may also be imposed based on whether the supplier is considered unreliable or a security risk. For example, the Chinese government adopted a law that would restrict purchases from suppliers deemed to be unreliable suppliers. In May 2023, the Cyberspace Administration of China banned the sale of Micron's products to certain entities in China and stated that such products pose significant security risks to China's critical information infrastructure supply chain and national security. Furthermore, imposition of tariffs or new or revised export, import or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions, could cause a decrease in the demand for, or sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users or increase the cost for our products, which would directly impact our business and results of operations. We face a number of risks related to our strategic transactions. We continuously monitor the marketplace for strategic opportunities, which includes expanding our product lines and markets through both internal product development and acquisitions. Consequently, we expect to continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions and strategic transactions, such as our merger with NeoPhotonics and the acquisition of IPG telecom transmission product lines in August 2022, as well as acquire complementary technologies, products, assets and businesses. We may be unable to identify or complete prospective acquisitions for many reasons, including competition from other potential acquirers, the effects of consolidation in our industries and potentially high valuations of acquisition candidates. Even if we do identify acquisitions or enter into agreements with respect to such acquisitions, we may not be able to complete the acquisition due to competition, regulatory requirements or restrictions or other reasons, as occurred with the termination of our merger agreement with Coherent in March 2021. In addition, applicable antitrust laws and other regulations may limit our ability to acquire targets or force us to divest an acquired business. If we are unable to identify suitable targets or complete acquisitions, our growth prospects may suffer, and we may not be able to realize sufficient scale and technological advantages to compete effectively in all markets. In connection with acquisitions, risks to us and our business include: diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business; 24 failure to achieve the anticipated transaction benefits or the projected financial results and operational synergies; unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions imposed upon the acquisition or transaction, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents, or fees that may be triggered upon a failure to consummate an acquisition or transaction for certain reasons; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; unanticipated changes in the acquired business, including due to regulatory action or changes in the operating results or financial condition of the business; the inability to retain and obtain required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; difficulties and costs in integrating the operations, technologies, products, IT and other systems, assets, facilities and personnel of the purchased businesses; disruption due to the integration and rationalization of operations, products, technologies and personnel; loss of customers, suppliers or partners; and failure to consummate an acquisition resulting in negative publicity and/or negative impression of us in the investment community that could impact on our stock price Further, an acquisition or strategic transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realized the expected return on, our investments. We have also faced litigation in connection with acquisitions, some of which continues following the consummation of the acquisition. Such litigation may be costly and diverts management time and attention. We have in the past, and may in the future, divest or reduce our investment in certain businesses or product lines from time to time. For example, in the fiscal year 2019, we completed the divestiture of our Datacom module business in Japan, and in fiscal year 2020 we sold the assets associated with certain Lithium Niobate product lines manufactured by our San Donato, Italy site. Such divestitures involve risks, such as difficulty separating portions from our other businesses, distracting employees, incurring potential loss of revenue, negatively impacting margins, and potentially disrupting customer relationships. We may also incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impairment charges, or both. If we are unable to successfully manage any of these risks in relation to any future acquisitions or divestitures, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to successfully implement our acquisitions strategy or integrate acquired companies and personnel with existing operations. To the extent we are successful in making acquisitions, such as our merger with NeoPhotonics and the acquisition of IPG telecom transmission product lines, we may be unsuccessful in implementing our acquisitions strategy, or integrating acquired companies, businesses or product lines and personnel with existing operations, or the integration may be more difficult or more costly than anticipated. Some of the challenges involved integrating businesses and acquisitions include: difficulty preserving relationship with customers, suppliers or partners; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process R&D; unanticipated liabilities or our exposure for known contingencies and liabilities may exceed our estimates; insufficient net revenue or unexpected expenses that negatively impact our margins and profitability; unexpected losses of key employees of the acquired company, or inability to maintain our company culture; unexpected expenses for cost of litigation against us or our directors and officers, or against the acquired company; potential adverse effects on our ability to attract, recruit, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees; conforming the acquired companys standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, including integrating Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems and other key business applications; coordinating new product and process development; 25 increasing complexity from combining operations, including administrative functions, finance and human resources; increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; difficulties in integrating operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; difficulties in integrating acquired technology; difficulties in coordinating and integrating geographically separated personnel, organizations, systems and facilities; difficulty managing customer transitions or entering into new markets; difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; temporary loss of productivity or operational efficiency; dilution of our current stockholders as a result of any issuance of equity securities as acquisition consideration; adverse tax or accounting impact; expenditure of cash that would otherwise be available to operate our business; and indebtedness on terms that are unfavorable to us, limit our operational flexibility or that we are unable to repay In addition, following an acquisition, we may have difficulty forecasting the financial results of the combined company and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if the effect of any acquisitions on our consolidated financial results is dilutive or is below the market's or financial analysts' expectations, or if there are unanticipated changes in the business or financial performance of the target company or the combined company. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may disrupt our business and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions or strategic transactions, or be able to retain those benefits even if realized. The success of our acquisitions will depend in large part on our success in integrating the acquired operations, strategies, technologies, and personnel. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. If we fail to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating any acquired operations or to otherwise realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including any expected cost savings and synergies, our operations could be impaired. In addition, the overall integration of an acquired business can be a time-consuming and expensive process that, without proper planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. Changes in demand and customer requirements for our products may reduce manufacturing yields, which could negatively impact our profitability. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs, introduction of new product lines and changes in contract manufacturers may reduce manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process, before, during or after manufacturing, results in lower gross margins from lower yields and additional rework costs. Any reduction in our manufacturing yields will adversely affect our gross margins and could have a material impact on our operating results. 26 We may not be able to realize tax savings from our international structure, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. During fiscal 2023, the Company completed an international restructuring that included the intra-entity transfer of certain intellectual property and other assets used in the business among various subsidiaries. This structure may be challenged by tax authorities, and if such challenges are successful, the tax consequence we expect to realize could be adversely impacted. If substantial modifications to our international structure or the way we operate our business are made, such as if future acquisitions or divestitures occur, if changes in domestic and international tax laws negatively impact the structure, if we do not operate our business consistent with the structure and applicable tax provisions, if we fail to achieve our revenue and profit goals, or if the international structure or our application of arms-length principles to intercompany arrangements is successfully challenged by the U.S. or foreign tax authorities, our effective tax rate may increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. Changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant uncertainties exist with respect to the amount of our tax liabilities, including those arising from potential changes in laws in the countries in which we do business and the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws. Many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are under audit by various tax authorities, which often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. Any unfavorable resolution of these uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate. Increasingly, countries around the world are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations. In August 2022, President Biden signed into law the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) and the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022. These laws introduce new tax provisions and provide for various incentives and tax credits. The IRA applies to tax years beginning after December 31, 2022 and introduces a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax and a 1% excise tax on certain stock repurchases made by publicly traded U.S. corporations. While we are not currently expecting a material impact to our provision for income taxes by the 15% corporate alternative minimum tax under the IRA, it could materially affect our financial results, including our earnings and cash flow, if we become subject to this tax in the future. Many countries, and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the OECD) have proposed implementing changes to existing tax laws, including a proposed global minimum tax of 15%, also known as Pillar Two, which was agreed to by more than 140 member jurisdictions in 2021 and adopted by European Union member states on December 12, 2022 to go into effect in 2024. Other countries including the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Canada, Australia and South Korea are also actively considering changes to their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the OECDs proposals. Any of these developments or changes in federal, state, or international tax laws or tax rulings could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rates, tax payments, or incentives will not be adversely affected by these or other developments or changes in law. Other countries also continue to enact and consider enacting new laws, which could increase our tax obligations, cause us to change the way we do business or our operations or otherwise adversely affect us. The foregoing items could increase our future tax expense, could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of foreign earnings, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiary in Thailand has been granted certain tax holidays by the Thailand government. As we do not currently meet the tax holiday requirements, income earned in Thailand is subject to the regular statutory income tax rate. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax and other returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities globally, and we have a number of such reviews underway at any time. It is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken, and an adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations, or changes in tax law or regulation impacting our effective tax rates, will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Our operating results may be subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks with regard to our international operations which may affect our operating results. Since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Due to these fluctuations, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. Although we price our products primarily in U.S. dollars, a portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. For example, a portion of our expenses are denominated in the U.K. pound sterling, Chinese yuan and Thai baht. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these currencies and other currencies in which we collect revenues and/or pay expenses could have a material effect on our future operating results. Recently, our exposure to foreign currencies has increased as our non-U.S. manufacturing footprint has expanded. We continue to look for opportunities to leverage the lower cost of non-U.S. manufacturing, including the United Kingdom, Thailand, and Japan. While these geographies are lower cost than the U.S. and such concentration will in general lower our total cost to manufacture, this increase in concentration in non-U.S. manufacturing will also increase the volatility of our results. If the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to certain other foreign currencies, it would increase our costs including the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of materials or services that we purchase in foreign currencies, as expressed in U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could raise the relative cost of our products to non-U.S. customers, especially as compared to foreign competitors, and could reduce demand. Global economic volatility has had a significant impact on the exchange markets, which heightened this risk, and we expect the higher level of volatility in foreign exchange markets will likely continue. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including supporting the development and introduction of new products, addressing new markets, engaging in strategic transactions and partnerships, improving or expanding our operating infrastructure or acquiring complementary businesses and technologies. Investments, partnerships and acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties which could materially and adversely affect our operating and financial results. In March 2017, we issued and sold a total of $450 million in aggregate principal amount of 2024 Notes. In December 2019, we issued and sold a total of $1,050 million in aggregate principal amount of 2026 Notes. In March 2022, we issued and sold a total of $861 million aggregate principal amount of 2028 Notes. In June 2023, we issued and sold a total of $603.7 million aggregate principal amount of 2029 Notes. We may in the future engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, increasing interest rates and other factors have resulted in volatility in the capital markets and less favorable financing terms. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. If we fail to effectively manage our growth or, alternatively, our spending during downturns, our business could be disrupted, which could harm our operating results. Over the last several years, we have rapidly increased in size. As a result, we have had to, and expect in the future to continue to need to, appropriately scale our business, internal systems and organization, and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Growth in sales, combined with the challenges of managing geographically dispersed operations, can place a significant strain on our management systems and resources, and our anticipated growth in future operations could continue to place such a strain. The failure to effectively manage our growth could disrupt our business and harm our operating results, and even if we are able to upgrade our systems and expand our staff, any such expansion will likely be expensive and complex. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in evolving markets requires an effective planning and management process. In economic downturns, we must effectively manage our spending and operations to ensure our competitive position during the downturn, as well as our future opportunities when the economy improves, remains intact. The failure to effectively manage our spending and operations could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. 28 Additionally, in response to market conditions and changes in industry, we have from time to time strategically realigned our resources including workforce reductions and an international restructuring to reduce the cost of our operations, improve efficiencies, or realign our organization and staffing to better match our market opportunities and our technology development initiatives. We may take similar steps in the future. These changes could be disruptive to our business, including our research and development efforts, and may result in the recording of special charges, including workforce reduction or restructuring costs. Substantial expense or charges resulting from restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations and use of cash in those periods in which we undertake such actions. Any failure to manage our growth, our spending during downturns, or the alignment of our resources may harm our business and operating results. Any failure, disruption or security breach or incident of or impacting our information technology infrastructure or information management systems could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our business depends significantly on effective and efficient information management systems, and the reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure are essential to the operation, health and expansion of our business. For example, the information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in managing our supply chain, financial reporting, monitoring customer accounts, and protecting our proprietary and confidential business information, plans, trade secrets, and intellectual property, among other things. In addition, these systems may contain personal data or other confidential or otherwise protected information about our employees, our customers employees, or other business partners. We must continue to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing requirements as well as evolving security standards and risks. In some cases, we may rely upon third-party providers of hosting, support and other services to meet our information technology requirements. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure, including our ERP system and other applications, any failure in the extension implementation or operation of this infrastructure, or any failure by our hosting and support partners or other third-party service providers in the performance of their services could materially harm our business. In addition, we have partnered with third parties to support our information technology systems and to help design, build, test, implement and maintain our information management systems. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity may also require transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems within our overall enterprise architecture, including our ERP system and other applications. Those systems that we acquire or that are used by acquired entities or businesses may also pose security risks of which we are unaware or unable to mitigate, particularly during the transition of these systems. Like other companies, we are subject to ongoing attempts by malicious actors, including through hacking, malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering, exploitation of internet-connected devices, and other attacks, to obtain unauthorized access to, or acquisition or other processing of confidential or other information or otherwise affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and information stored or otherwise processed on our systems. Cyber threats have increased in recent years, in part due to increased remote work and frequent attacks, including in the form of phishing emails, malware attachments and malicious websites. Additionally, cybersecurity researchers have warned of increased risks of cyber-attacks, in connection with the war between Russia and Ukraine. While we work to safeguard our internal network systems and validate the security of our third-party service providers to mitigate these potential risks, including through information security policies and employee awareness and training, there is no assurance that such actions have been or will be sufficient to prevent cyber-attacks or security breaches or incidents. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to social engineering and other cybersecurity attacks, and these attacks may become more prevalent with substantial portion of our workforce being distributed geographically, particularly given the increased remote access to our networks and systems as a result. Further, our third-party service providers may have been and may be in the future subject to such attacks or otherwise may suffer security breaches or incidents. In addition, actions by our employees, service providers, partners, contractors, or others, whether malicious or in error, could affect the security of our systems and information. Further, a breach or compromise of our information technology infrastructure or that of our third-party service providers could result in the misappropriation of intellectual property, business plans, trade secrets or other information. Additionally, while our security systems are designed to maintain the physical security of our facilities and information systems, accidental or willful security breaches or incidents or other unauthorized access by third parties to our facilities or our information systems could lead to unauthorized access to, or misappropriation, disclosure, or other processing of proprietary, confidential and other information. Moreover, new laws and regulations, such as the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act and Chinas Personal Information Protection Law, add to the complexity of our compliance obligations and increases our compliance costs. Although we have established internal