ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) references in this report to "CenturyLink," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CenturyLink, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and (ii) references in this report to "Level 3" refer to Level 3 Communications, Inc. prior to our acquisition thereof and to its successor-in-interest Level 3 Parent, LLC after such acquisition. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 of Part I refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" appearing at the beginning of this report and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our anticipated results or otherwise impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 , and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The results of operations and cash flows for the first three months of the year are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations and cash flows that might be expected for the entire year. We are an international facilities-based communications company engaged primarily in providing an integrated array of services to our residential and business customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance voice, virtual private network ("VPN") data network, private line (including business data services), Ethernet, information technology, wavelength, broadband, colocation and data center services, managed services, professional and other services provided in connection with selling equipment, network security and various other ancillary services. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. At March 31, 2018 , we served 5.0 million consumer broadband subscribers. Our methodology for counting consumer broadband subscribers, which is described further in the operational metrics table below under "Results of Operations", may not be comparable to those of other companies. We no longer report or discuss access lines as a key operating metric given the significant migration in our industry from legacy services to IP-enabled services. Acquisition of Level 3 On November 1, 2017, CenturyLink, Inc. ("CenturyLink") acquired Level 3 through successive merger transactions, including a merger of Level 3 with and into a merger subsidiary, which survived such merger as our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary under the name of Level 3 Parent, LLC. We entered into this transaction, among other things, to realize certain strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we incurred $70 million of integration-related expenses associated with our activities related to the Level 3 acquisition. We also incurred $1 million in merger-related transaction costs, including investment banker and legal fees in connection with consummating the transaction. Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of CenturyLink and its majority owned subsidiaries, including Level 3 beginning on November 1, 2017. Due to the significant size of the acquisition, direct comparison of our results of operations for the periods ending on or after December 31, 2017 to prior periods are less meaningful than usual. As a result of the acquisition, Level 3's assets and liabilities have been revalued and recorded at their preliminary estimated fair value. The assignment of estimated fair value requires a significant amount of judgment. The use of fair value measures affects the comparability of our post-acquisition financial information and may make it more difficult to predict earnings in future periods. We expect to complete our final fair value determinations prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition. Our final fair value determinations may be significantly different than those preliminary values reflected in our consolidated financial statements at March 31, 2018. In the discussion that follows, we refer to the business that we operated prior to the Level 3 acquisition as "Legacy CenturyLink", and we refer to the incremental business activities that we now operate as a result of the Level 3 acquisition as "Legacy Level 3." 34 For additional information about our acquisition of Level 3, see (i) Note 2Acquisition of Level 3 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, (ii) our current report on Form 8-K/A filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on January 16, 2018, (iii) our current report on Form 8-K filed by us with the SEC on November 1, 2017 and (iv) the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed by us with the SEC on February 13, 2017. Sale of Data Centers and Colocation Business On May 1, 2017, we sold our data centers and colocation business to a consortium led by BC Partners, Inc. and Medina Capital ("the Purchaser") in exchange for pre-tax cash proceeds of $1.8 billion and a minority stake in the limited partnership that owns the consortium's newly-formed global secure infrastructure company, Cyxtera Technologies. As part of the transaction, the Purchaser acquired 57 of our data centers and assumed our capital lease obligations, which amounted to $294 million on May 1, 2017, related to the divested properties. Our colocation business generated revenues (excluding revenue from affiliates) of approximately $153 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. This transaction did not meet the accounting requirements for a sale-leaseback transaction as described in ASC 840-40, Leases - Sale-Leaseback Transaction . Under the failed-sale-leaseback accounting model, we are deemed under GAAP to still own certain real estate assets sold to Cyxtera. After factoring in the costs to sell the data centers and colocation business, excluding the impacts from the failed-sale-leaseback accounting treatment, the sale resulted in a $20 million gain as a result of the aggregate value of the consideration we received exceeding the carrying value of the divested assets and transferred liabilities. Based on the fair market values of the failed-sale-leaseback assets, the failed-sale-leaseback accounting treatment resulted in a loss of $102 million as a result of the requirement to treat a certain amount of the pre-tax cash proceeds from the sale of the assets as though it were the result of a financing obligation. The combined net loss of $82 million is included in selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017. The sale also resulted in a significant capital loss carryforward, which was entirely offset by a valuation allowance due to our determination that we are not likely to be able to utilize this carryforward prior to its expiration. For all of 2018, we will be required by GAAP to record similar non-cash adjustments to our net income. Upon the January 1, 2019 implementation of the new accounting standard for Leases (ASU 2016-02), which was issued by the FASB in early 2016, this particular accounting treatment will no longer be applicable for this transaction, and the above-described real estate assets and corresponding financing obligation will be derecognized from our consolidated balance sheet. See Note 3Sale of Data Centers and Colocation Business to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information on the sale. New Organizational Structure In connection with our above-described acquisition of Level 3, effective November 1, 2017, we implemented a new organization structure and began managing our operations in two segments: business and consumer. Our consumer segment remains substantially unchanged under this reorganization, and our newly reorganized business segment includes the Legacy CenturyLink enterprise segment operations and the Legacy Level 3 operations. In addition, we reassigned our information technology, managed hosting, cloud hosting and hosting area network operations back into the business segment from the former non-reportable operating segment. At March 31, 2018, we had the following two segments: Business Segment. This segment consists generally of providing products and services to small, medium and enterprise business, wholesale and government customers, including other communication providers. Our products and services offered to these customers include our local and long-distance voice, VPN data network, private line (including business data services), Ethernet, information technology, wavelength, broadband, colocation and data center services, managed services, professional and other services provided in connection with selling equipment, network security and various other ancillary services, all of which are described further under "Operating Revenues"; and Consumer Segment. This segment consists generally of providing products and services to residential customers. Our products and services offered to these customers include our broadband, local and long-distance voice, video and other ancillary services. 35 Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Operating revenues $ 5,945 4,209 Operating expenses 5,195 3,578 Operating income 750 631 Interest expense and other (expense) income, net (514 ) (324 ) Income tax expense 121 144 Net income $ 115 163 Basic earnings per common share $ 0.11 0.30 Diluted earnings per common share $ 0.11 0.30 The following table summarizes our broadband subscribers and number of employees: As of March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2018 2017 (in thousands) Operational metrics: Total consumer broadband subscribers (1) 4,986 5,291 (305 ) (6 )% Total employees 50.0 40.0 10.0 25 % ______________________________________________________________________ (1) Consumer broadband subscribers are customers that purchase broadband connection service through their existing telephone lines, stand-alone telephone lines, or fiber-optic cables. Our methodology for counting our consumer broadband subscribers includes only those lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. It also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone consumer broadband subscribers. We count lines when we install the service. During the last decade, we have experienced revenue declines primarily due to declines in access lines, private line customers, switched access rates and minutes of use. To mitigate these revenue declines, we remain focused on efforts to, among other things: promote long-term relationships with our customers through bundling of integrated services; increase the capacity, speed and usage of our networks; provide a wide array of diverse services, including enhanced or additional services that may become available in the future due to, among other things, advances in technology or improvements in our infrastructure; provide our premium services to a higher percentage of our customers; pursue acquisitions of additional assets if available at attractive prices; increase prices on our products and services if and when practicable; and market our products and services to new customers. Operating Revenues We categorize our products, services and revenues among the following five categories: IP and data services , which include primarily VPN data networks, Ethernet, IP, video (including our facilities-based video services and Vyvx broadcast services) and other ancillary services; Transport and infrastructure , which include broadband, private line (including business data services), data center facilities and services, including cloud, hosting and application management solutions, wavelength, equipment sales and professional services, network security services and other ancillary services; 36 Voice and collaboration , which includes primarily local and long-distance voice, including wholesale voice, and other ancillary service; IT and managed services , which include information technology services and managed services, which may be purchased in conjunction with our other network services; and Regulatory revenues, which consist of Universal Service Fund ("USF") and Connect America Fund ("CAF") support payments and other operating revenues. We receive federal support payments from both federal and state USF programs and from the federal CAF program. The USF and CAF support payments are government subsidies designed to reimburse us for various costs related to certain telecommunications services. We generate other operating revenues from the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties and from rental income associated with the failed-sale-leaseback. Because we centrally manage the activities that generate these regulatory revenues, these revenues are not included in our segment revenues. The following table summarizes our consolidated operating revenues recorded under our five revenue categories: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2018 2017 (Dollars in millions) IP & Data Services (1) $ 1,845 864 981 114 % Transport & Infrastructure (2) 2,118 1,607 511 32 % Voice & Collaboration (3) 1,637 1,414 223 16 % IT & Managed Services (4) 162 152 10 7 % Regulatory revenues (5) 183 172 11 6 % Total operating revenues $ 5,945 4,209 1,736 41 % _______________________________________________________________ (1) Includes primarily VPN data network, Ethernet, IP, video and ancillary revenues. (2) Includes primarily broadband, private line (including business data services), colocation and data centers, wavelength and ancillary revenues. (3) Includes local, long-distance and other ancillary revenues. (4) Includes IT services and managed services revenues. (5) Includes CAF Phase I, CAF Phase 2, federal and state USF support revenue, sublease rental income and failed-sale leaseback income. Our total operating revenues increased by $1.736 billion , or 41% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in our total operating revenues was largely attributable to the acquisition of Level 3, which contributed operating revenues (net of intercompany eliminations) of $2.062 billion . This was partially offset by a decrease in Legacy CenturyLink transport and infrastructure and voice and collaboration revenue. The transport and infrastructure decrease was primarily due to the sale of the collocation and data center business in May 2017 while the decrease in voice and collaboration was due to a decrease in revenue from our traditional voice telecommunications services. 37 Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our consolidated operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2018 2017 (Dollars in millions) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 2,803 1,888 915 48 % Selling, general and administrative 1,109 810 299 37 % Depreciation and amortization 1,283 880 403 46 % Total operating expenses $ 5,195 3,578 1,617 45 % Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased by $915 million , or 48% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in costs of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) was attributable to the inclusion of $998 million in Legacy Level 3 costs (net of intercompany eliminations) in our consolidated costs of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) and an increase in facilities costs. These were partially offset by a decrease in costs of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) for Legacy CenturyLink of $83 million , or 4% , for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2017. This was primarily due to reductions in salaries and wages and employee related expenses from lower headcount and lower real estate and power expenses from the 2017 sale of our data centers and colocation business. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $299 million , or 37% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was attributable to the inclusion of $344 million in Legacy Level 3 costs in our consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses. This was partially offset by a decrease in Legacy CenturyLink's selling, general and administrative expenses of $45 million , or 6% , for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2017. This was primarily due to reductions in contract labor, marketing expenses and external commissions, which were partially offset by higher Level 3 acquisition expenses. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail of our depreciation and amortization expense: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2018 2017 (Dollars in millions) Depreciation $ 839 605 234 39 % Amortization 444 275 169 61 % Total depreciation and amortization $ 1,283 880 403 46 % Depreciation expense increased by $234 million , or 39% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Depreciation expense is impacted by several factors, including changes in our depreciable cost basis, changes in our estimates of the remaining economic life of certain network assets, the addition of new plant and the sale of our data centers and colocation business. The depreciation expense related to our plant for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was higher than the depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to the inclusion of the Legacy Level 3 depreciation expense of $237 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Amortization expense increased by $169 million , or 61% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in amortization expense was primarily due to the amortization expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to the inclusion of the Legacy Level 3 amortization expense of $194 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 which was partially offset by a lower Legacy CenturyLink intangible asset base. Further analysis of our segment operating expenses by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." 38 Other Consolidated Results The following table summarizes our total other expense, net and income tax expense: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2018 2017 (Dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (535 ) (318 ) 217 68 % Other income (expense), net 21 (6 ) 27 nm Total other expense, net $ (514 ) (324 ) 190 59 % Income tax expense $ 121 144 (23 ) (16 )% _______________________________________________________________________________ nm-Percentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $217 million , or 68% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to the issuance of $7.945 billion of term loans in the second half of 2017 for the purpose of providing funding for the Level 3 acquisition and the assumption of Level 3's debt upon the consummation of the acquisition of Level 3, which accounted for $120 million in first quarter 2018 interest expense. Remaining increase is due to the assumption of Level 3 debt at the time of acquisition. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net reflects certain items not directly related to our core operations, including our share of income from partnerships we do not control, interest income, gains and losses from non-operating asset dispositions, foreign currency gains and losses and components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs. Other income (expense), net changed by $27 million , for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to a decrease in the pension and postretirement charge and favorable foreign exchange rates in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. In addition, the three months ended March 31, 2018 included other income attributable to Level 3. Income Tax Expense For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , our effective income tax rate was 51.3% and 46.9% , respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was significantly impacted by the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act legislation in December 2017 which resulted in a re-measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new federal corporate tax rate. See Recent Tax Changes in "Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOther Matters". The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 includes the tax impact of certain employee stock based compensation transactions, the tax impact of the sale and related corporate actions we have taken regarding certain subsidiaries involved in the data centers and colocation business. 39 Segment Results General For financial reporting purposes, we have determined that as of March 31, 2018 we had two reportable segments, business and consumer. The results of our reportable segments, business and consumer, are summarized below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (Dollars in millions) Business segment: Revenues $ 4,383 2,590 Expenses 2,613 1,566 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,770 1,024 Margin percentage 40 % 40 % Consumer segment: Revenues $ 1,379 1,447 Expenses 613 640 Adjusted EBITDA $ 766 807 Margin percentage 56 % 56 % For additional information on our reportable segments, see Note 10Segment Information. Products and Services In connection with our acquisition of Level 3 on November 1, 2017, we revised the way we categorize our products and services and now report our related revenues under the following categories: IP and data services, transport and infrastructure, voice and collaboration, IT and managed services and regulatory revenues. From time to time, we change the categorization of our products and services, and we may make similar changes in the future. We offer our customers the ability to bundle together several products and services. We believe our customers value the convenience and price discounts associated with receiving multiple services through a single company. 40 Business Segment The operations of our business segment have been, and are expected to continue to be, impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Revenues . Our mix of total business segment revenues continues to migrate from traditional wireline voice services to newer, lower cost more technologically advanced products and services as our small, medium and enterprise business, wholesale and government customers increasingly demand integrated data, broadband, hosting and voice services. Our Ethernet-based services in the wholesale market face competition from cable companies and competitive fiber-based telecommunications providers. We anticipate continued pricing pressure for our colocation services as our competitors continue to expand their enterprise colocation operations. A recent sustained expansion in competitive cloud computing offerings by technology companies and other competitors has led to other increased pricing pressure, a migration towards lower-priced cloud-based services and enhanced competition for contracts, and we expect these trends to continue. Customers' demand for new technology has also increased the number of competitors offering services similar to ours. Price compression from each of these above-mentioned competitive pressures has negatively impacted the operating margins of certain business product and service offerings, and we expect this trend to continue. Our traditional wireline products and services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price compression. In particular, our access, local services and long-distance revenues have been, and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected by customer migration to more technologically advanced services, a substantial increase in the use of non-voice communications, industry consolidation and price compression caused by regulation and rate reductions. For example, many of our business segment customers are substituting cable, wireless and Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued access revenue loss. Demand for our private line services (including business data services) continues to decline due to our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration to higher-speed services. Although our traditional wireline services generally face fewer direct competitors than certain of our newer, lower cost more advanced products and services, customer migration and, to a lesser degree, price compression from competitive pressures have negatively impacted our traditional wireline revenues and the operating margins of these services. We expect this trend to continue. We expect both equipment sales and professional services revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from year to year as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal, state and local government customers, many of whom have experienced substantial budget cuts over the past several years, with the possibility of additional future budget cuts. Expenses. Our operating costs also impact the operating margins of all of our above-mentioned services, but to a lesser extent than price compression and customer disconnects. These operating costs include employee costs, sales commissions, software costs on selected services, installation costs and third-party facility costs. We believe increases in operating costs have generally had a greater impact on the operating margins of some of our newer, more technologically advanced services as compared to our traditional wireline services, principally because those newer services rely more heavily upon the above-listed support functions. Operating costs, such as installation costs and third-party facility costs, have also negatively impacted the operating margins of our traditional wireline products and services, but to a lesser extent than customer migration and price compression. Operating Efficiencies . We continue to evaluate our segment operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions, while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. However, our ongoing efforts to increase revenue will continue to require that we incur higher costs in some areas. We also expect our business segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 41 The following table summarizes the results of operations from our business segment: Business Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) %Change 2018 2017 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: IP & Data Services (1) $ 1,748 744 1,004 135 % Transport & Infrastructure (2) 1,362 906 456 50 % Voice & Collaboration (3) 1,111 788 323 41 % IT & Managed Services (4) 162 152 10 7 % Total segment revenues 4,383 2,590 1,793 69 % Segment expenses: Total expenses 2,613 1,566 1,047 67 % Segment adjusted EBITDA $ 1,770 1,024 746 73 % Segment margin percentage 40 % 40 % __________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes primarily VPN data network, Ethernet, IP, video and ancillary revenues. (2) Includes primarily broadband, private line (including business data services), colocation and data centers, wavelength and ancillary revenues. (3) Includes local, long-distance and other ancillary revenues. (4) Includes IT services and managed services revenues. Segment Revenues Business segment revenues increased by $1.793 billion , or 69% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in our total operating revenues was largely attributable to the acquisition of Level 3, which contributed operating revenues (net of intercompany eliminations) of $2.062 billion . This was partially offset by a decrease in Legacy CenturyLink transport and infrastructure and voice and collaboration revenue. The transport and infrastructure decrease was primarily due to the sale of the collocation and data center business in May 2017 while the decrease in voice and collaboration was due to a decrease in revenue from our traditional voice telecommunications services. Segment Expenses Business segment expenses increased by $1.047 billion , or 67% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in our business segment expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of Level 3 expenses for the first three months of 2018. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Business segment adjusted EBITDA increased by $746 million , or 73% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in our business segment adjusted EBITDA was due predominantly to items mentioned above. 42 Consumer Segment The operations of our consumer segment have been, and are expected to continue to be, impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Revenues. In order to remain competitive and attract additional residential broadband subscribers, we believe it is important to continually increase our broadband network's scope and connection speeds. As a result, we continue to invest in our broadband network, which allows for the delivery of higher-speed broadband services to a greater number of customers. We compete in a maturing broadband market in which most consumers already have broadband services and growth rates in new subscribers have slowed or declined. Moreover, as described further in Item 1A of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, certain of our competitors continue to provide broadband services at higher average transmission speeds than ours or through advanced wireless data service offerings, both of which we believe have impacted the competitiveness of certain of our broadband offerings. Our voice revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and lower long-distance voice service volumes. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice services and electronic mail, texting and social networking non-voice services for traditional voice telecommunications services. The offering of our facilities-based video services in our markets has required us to incur substantial start-up expenses in advance of marketing and selling the service. Also, our associated content costs continue to increase and the video business has become more competitive as more options become available to customers to access video services through new technologies. The demand for new technology has increased the number of competitors offering services similar to ours. Price compression and new technology from our competitors have negatively impacted the operating margins of our newer, more technologically advanced products and services. We expect that these factors and trends will continue to negatively impact our consumer business. Customer migration and price compression from competitive pressures have not only negatively impacted our traditional wireline services revenues, but they have also negatively impacted the operating margins of these services and we expect this trend to continue. During the first quarter of 2018, CenturyLink announced it terminated its CenturyLink Stream and Over the Top ("OTT") product offerings effective March 31, 2018. As a result of this decision, during the first quarter, CenturyLink recognized an impairment of $42 million related to hardware, software and capitalized development costs. Expenses. Operating costs also impact the operating margins of these services. These operating costs include employee costs, marketing and advertising expenses, sales commissions, TV content costs and installation costs. We believe increases in operating costs have generally had a greater impact on our operating margins of our newer, more technologically advanced products and services as compared to our traditional wireline services, principally because our newer, more technologically advanced products and services rely more heavily upon the above-listed operating expenses. Operating costs, such as installation costs and facility costs, have also negatively impacted the operating margins of our traditional wireline products and services, but to a lesser extent than customer migration and price compression. Operating costs also tend to impact our traditional wireline products and services margins to a lesser extent than our newer, more technologically advanced products and services as noted above. Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle broadband services with other services such as local voice, video and long-distance. While we believe our bundled service offerings can help retain customers, they also tend to lower our profit margins in the consumer segment due to the related discounts; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our segment operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. We also expect our consumer segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 43 The following table summarizes the results of operations from our consumer segment: Consumer Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2018 2017 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: IP & Data Services (1) $ 97 120 (23 ) (19 )% Transport & Infrastructure (2) 756 701 55 8 % Voice & Collaboration (3) 526 626 (100 ) (16 )% Total segment revenues 1,379 1,447 (68 ) (5 )% Segment expenses: Total expenses 613 640 (27 ) (4 )% Segment adjusted EBITDA $ 766 807 (41 ) (5 )% Segment margin percentage 56 % 56 % ___________________________________________________________________ (1 ) Includes retail video revenues (including our facilities-based video revenues). (2 ) Includes primarily broadband and equipment sales and professional services revenues. (3 ) Includes local, long-distance and other ancillary revenues. Segment Revenues Consumer segment revenues decreased by $68 million , or 5% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease in our consumer segment revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in our Voice revenue as a result of the continued decline in revenue from our traditional voice telecommunications services. Segment Expenses Consumer segment expenses decreased by $27 million , or 4% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease in our consumer segment expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a reduction in headcount and decreases in marketing expenses. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Consumer segment adjusted EBITDA decreased by $41 million , or 5% , for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease in our consumer segment adjusted EBITDA was due predominantly to items mentioned above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview of Sources and Uses of Cash We are a holding company that is dependent on the capital resources of our subsidiaries to satisfy our parent company liquidity requirements. Several of our significant operating subsidiaries have borrowed funds either on a standalone basis or as part of a separate restricted group with certain of its subsidiaries or affiliates. The terms of the instruments governing the indebtedness of these borrowers or borrowing groups may restrict our ability to access their accumulated cash. In addition, our ability to access the liquidity of these and other subsidiaries may be limited by tax and legal considerations and other factors. At March 31, 2018 , we held cash and cash equivalents of $501 million , and we had $2.168 billion of borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility. We had approximately $314 million of cash and cash equivalents outside the United States at March 31, 2018. We currently believe we have the ability to repatriate cash and cash equivalents into the United States without paying or accruing U.S. taxes, other than the possible payment of the Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax discussed elsewhere herein and other limited exceptions. We do not currently intend to repatriate to the United States any of our foreign cash and cash equivalents from operating entities outside of Latin America. 44 Our acquisition of Level 3 on November 1, 2017, resulted in significant changes in our consolidated financial position, our debt structure and our future cash requirements. Our executive officers and our Board of Directors periodically review our sources and potential uses of cash in connection with our annual budgeting process. Generally speaking, our principal funding source is cash from operating activities, and our principal cash requirements include operating expenses, capital expenditures, income taxes, debt repayments, dividends, periodic stock repurchases, periodic pension contributions and other benefits payments. We currently expect our cash income tax payments will be lower in 2018 due to lower income tax rates and the utilization of the NOLs acquired in the Level 3 acquisition, and we expect that our cash paid for retiree healthcare benefits will remain relatively flat. Based on our current capital allocation objectives, during 2018 we project expending approximately $3.850 billion (excluding integration capital) of cash for capital investment in property, plant and equipment and approximately $576 million of cash for dividends per quarter on our common stock (based on the assumptions described below under "Dividends"). At March 31, 2018, we have debt maturities of $174 million , scheduled debt principal payments of $164 million and capital lease and other fixed payments of $99 million , each due during 2018. Each of the expenditures is described further below. We will continue to monitor our future sources and uses of cash, and anticipate that we will make adjustments to our capital allocation strategies when, as and if determined by our Board of Directors. We typically use our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity for operating activities and our other cash requirements. For additional information, see "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand and improve our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted impact on revenue growth, productivity, expenses, service levels and customer retention) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations (such as our CAF Phase 2 infrastructure buildout requirements). Based on current circumstances, we estimate that our total capital expenditures for 2018 will be approximately 16% of revenue, inclusive of CAF Phase 2 related capital expenditures and integration capital. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on keeping the network operating efficiently and supporting new service developments. For more information on our capital spending, see "Historical InformationInvesting Activities" below and Item 1 of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Debt and Other Financing Arrangements Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to issue debt securities from time to time in the future to refinance a substantial portion of our maturing debt, including issuing Qwest Corporation and Level 3 Financing, Inc. debt securities to refinance their maturing debt to the extent feasible. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned by credit rating agencies, among other factors. Following the closing of our acquisition of Level 3, the rating agencies took action on the ratings of the debt in the table below. Generally, the agencies downgraded ratings of the CenturyLink, Inc. debt from previous levels as they indicated they intended to at the time of the announcement of the transaction. Additionally, Standard and Poor's and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. placed such ratings on negative outlook while Fitch Ratings placed them on stable outlook. As for the Level 3 debt, Moody's Investors Service, Inc. upgraded the unsecured debt and affirmed the rating of the secured debt, with all ratings placed on negative outlook. Standard and Poor's affirmed all previous Level 3 ratings with negative outlook, and Fitch Ratings affirmed all previous Level 3 ratings with stable outlook. 45 As of the date of this report, the credit ratings for the senior unsecured debt of CenturyLink, Inc., Qwest Corporation, Level 3 Parent, LLC and Level 3 Financing, Inc. were as follows: Borrower Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Standard & Poor's Fitch Ratings CenturyLink, Inc.: Unsecured B2 B+ BB Secured Ba3 BBB- BB+ Qwest Corporation: Unsecured Ba2 BBB- BB+ Level 3 Parent, LLC: Unsecured B1 B+ BB- Level 3 Financing, Inc. Unsecured Ba3 BB BB Secured Ba1 BBB- BBB- Our credit ratings are reviewed and adjusted from time to time by the rating agencies. Any future downgrades of the senior unsecured or secured debt ratings of us or our subsidiaries could impact our access to debt capital or further raise our borrowing costs. See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Net Operating Loss Carryforwards As of December 31, 2017, CenturyLink had approximately $9.1 billion of net operating loss carryforwards. ("NOLs"), which for U.S. federal income tax purposes can be used to offset future taxable income. These NOLs are primarily related to federal NOLs we acquired through the Level 3 acquisition on November 1, 2017, and are subject to prior limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code") and related U.S. Treasury Department regulations. Additionally, these NOLs are subject to a current Section 382 limitation as a result of our acquisition of Level 3. Prior to this acquisition, the amounts of our cash flows dedicated to or required for the payment of federal taxes increased substantially in 2017. As a result of the completion of this acquisition we expect to significantly reduce our federal cash taxes for the next several years. Additionally, we requested a significant refund of federal income taxes related to 2017 that was received in the second quarter of 2018. The amounts of our near-term future tax payments will depend upon many factors, including our future earnings and tax circumstances and results of any corporate tax reform. We cannot assure you that we will be able to use these NOL carryforwards fully. See "Risk FactorsRisk Relating to Our Recently-Completed Acquisition of Level 3We cannot assure you, whether, when or in what amounts we will be able to use Level 3's net operating loss carryforwards" in Item 1A of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Dividends We currently expect to continue our current practice of paying quarterly cash dividends in respect of our common stock subject to our Board of Directors' discretion to modify or terminate this practice at any time and for any reason without prior notice. Our current quarterly common stock dividend rate is $0.54 per share, as approved by our Board of Directors, which we believe is a dividend rate per share which enables us to balance our multiple objectives of managing our business, paying our fixed commitments and returning a substantial portion of our cash to our shareholders. Assuming continued payment during 2018 at this rate of $0.54 per share, our average total dividend paid each quarter would be approximately $576 million based on the number of our outstanding shares at March 31, 2018. 46 Revolving Facilities and Other Debt Instruments To substantially fund our recent acquisition of Level 3, on June 19, 2017, one of our affiliates entered into a credit agreement (the "2017 CenturyLink Credit Agreement") providing for $9.945 billion in senior secured credit facilities, consisting of a new $2.0 billion revolving credit facility (which replaced our 2012 credit facility upon consummation of the Level 3 acquisition) and $7.945 billion of term loan facilities, of which approximately $6.0 billion were funded into escrow on such date, and $1.945 billion of which were funded upon the closing of the acquisition on November 1, 2017. On November 1, 2017, CenturyLink, Inc. also, among other things, (i) assumed all rights and obligations under the 2017 CenturyLink Credit Agreement, (ii) borrowed $400 million under the new $2.0 billion revolving credit facility and (iii) received $6.0 billion of Term Loan B loan proceeds from escrow. On January 29, 2018, the 2017 CenturyLink Credit Agreement was amended to increase the borrowing capacity of the new revolving credit facility from $2.0 billion to $2.168 billion , and to increase the borrowing capacity under one of the term loan tranches by $132 million . For additional information, see (i) Note 5Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, (ii) our current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 20, 2017 and (iii) our current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 1, 2017. On November 1, 2017, we also amended our uncommitted revolving letter of credit facility to secure the facility and to permit us to draw up to $225 million of letters of credit thereunder. At March 31, 2018, we had $121 million of letters of credit outstanding under this facility. For information on the terms and conditions of other debt instruments of ours and our subsidiaries, including financial and operating covenants, see Note 5Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans. At December 31, 2017 , the accounting unfunded status of our qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and qualified post-retirement benefit plans was $2.062 billion and $3.352 billion , respectively. See Note 9Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for additional information about our pension and post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust that holds all of the plan's assets. Based on current laws and circumstances, we do not expect any contributions to be required for our qualified pension plan during 2018. The amount of required contributions to our qualified pension plan in 2019 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. We occasionally make voluntary contributions in addition to required contributions. We made a voluntary contribution of $100 million to the trust for our qualified pension plan during 2017. Based on current circumstances, we currently anticipate making a voluntary contribution of $100 million to the trust for our qualified pension plan in 2018. Substantially all of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. Several trusts hold assets that have been used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of December 31, 2017, assets in the post-retirement trusts had been substantially depleted and had a fair value of $23 million (a portion of which was comprised of investments with restricted liquidity), which has significantly limited our ability to continue paying benefits from the trusts; however, we will continue to pay certain benefits through the trusts. Benefits not paid from the trusts are expected to be paid directly by us with available cash. As described further in Note 6Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, aggregate benefits paid by us under these plans (net of participant contributions and direct subsidy receipts) were $237 million , $129 million and $116 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, while the amounts paid from the trust were $31 million , $145 million and $163 million , respectively. For additional information on our expected future benefits payments for our post-retirement benefit plans, please see Note 9Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our annual report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. For 2018 , our estimated annual long-term rates of return are 6.5% and 4.0% for the pension plan trust assets and post-retirement plans trust assets, respectively, based on the assets currently held. However, actual returns could be substantially different. Future Contractual Obligations For information regarding our estimated future contractual obligations, see the MD&A discussion included in Item 7 of Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . 47 Connect America Fund As a result of accepting CAF Phase 2 support payments, we must meet certain specified infrastructure buildout requirements in 33 states over the next several years. In order to meet these specified infrastructure buildout requirements, we may be obligated to make substantial capital expenditures. See "Capital Expenditures" above. For additional information on the FCC's CAF order and the USF program, see "BusinessRegulation" in Item 1 of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and see "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. Historical Information The following table summarizes our consolidated cash flow activities: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2018 2017 (Dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,667 1,057 610 Net cash used in investing activities (768 ) (732 ) 36 Net cash used in financing activities (948 ) (333 ) 615 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $610 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily due to the increase in net income adjusted for non-cash items and the positive impact from changes in other assets and liabilities. Cash provided by operating activities is subject to variability period over period as a result of the timing of the collection of receivables and payments related to interest expense, accounts payable, and bonuses. Investing Activities Net cash used in our investing activities increased by $36 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily due to higher purchases of property plant and equipment and reduced proceeds from asset sales, as partially offset by deposits received in the first quarter of 2018 from assets held for sale. Financing Activities Net cash from our financing activities increased by $615 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily due to an increase in payments on our revolving credit facility and an increase in dividends paid. For more information, see Note 5-Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities. On January 29, 2018, the 2017 CenturyLink Credit Agreement was amended to: Add a lender to the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility and to increase CenturyLink, Inc.s borrowing capacity thereunder to approximately $2.168 billion ; and Add a lender to the Term Loan A credit facility and to increase CenturyLink, Inc.s borrowing capacity thereunder to approximately $1.707 billion . In connection with this amendment, the new lender provided approximately $132 million of Term Loan A loan proceeds, which CenturyLink used, together with available cash, to reduce its borrowings under the 2017 Revolving Credit Facility. On January 21, 2018, a subsidiary of Embarq Corporation redeemed all $13 million of its 8.77% Notes due 2019, which resulted in an immaterial loss. See Note 5Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information on our outstanding debt securities. 48 Other Matters Recent Tax Changes On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act") was signed into law and in December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 118 to provide guidance for companies that have not completed their accounting for the income tax effects of the Act. As of March 31, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of the Act. In order to complete our accounting for the impact of the Act, we continue to obtain, analyze and interpret additional guidance as such guidance becomes available from the U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), state taxing jurisdictions, the FASB, and other standard-setting and regulatory bodies. New guidance or interpretations may materially impact our provision for income taxes in future periods. Additional information that is needed to complete the analysis but is currently unavailable includes, but is not limited to, the amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the final determination of certain net deferred tax assets subject to remeasurement due to purchase accounting adjustments and other matters, and the tax treatment of such provisions of the Act by various state tax authorities. We have provisionally recognized the tax impacts related to the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The ultimate impact may differ from our provisional amount due to additional analysis, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and actions we may take as a result of the Act. The change from our current provisional estimates will be reflected in our future statements of operations and could be material. We expect to complete the accounting by the time we file our 2017 U.S. corporate income tax return in the fourth quarter of 2018, although we cannot assure you of this. The Act reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to 21% for all C corporations, effective January 1, 2018, and made certain changes to U.S. taxation of income earned by foreign subsidiaries, capital expenditures and various other items. As a result of the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, we provisionally re-measured our net deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2017 and recognized a tax benefit of approximately $1.1 billion in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017. During the first three months of 2018, we reduced this $1.1 billion tax benefit of tax reform by $64 million due to changes in certain purchase accounting adjustments related to the Level 3 acquisition, which was reflected in income tax expense. The Act imposed a one-time repatriation tax on certain earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Although we have not determined a reasonable estimate of the impact of the one-time repatriation tax, we do not expect this one-time tax to materially impact us, but we cannot provide any assurance that upon completion of the analysis the amount will not be material. Because of our net operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to experience a further material immediate reduction in the amount of cash income taxes paid by us. However, we anticipate that the provisions of the Act may reduce our cash income taxes in future years. Market Risk As of March 31, 2018, we were exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations and fluctuations in certain foreign currencies. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and periodically implements strategies to manage the exposure. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of March 31, 2018 , we had no such instruments outstanding. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. As of March 31, 2018, we did not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. As further discussed in Note 5Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities, on June 19, 2017, and on November 1, 2017, we borrowed substantial sums under a credit agreement dated June 19, 2017 with various lending institutions to provide a substantial amount of the funding for the Level 3 acquisition. As further noted in Note 5Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities, loans under the term loan facilities and new revolving credit facility under the June 19, 2017 credit agreement bear interest at floating rates. 49 By operating internationally, we are exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the foreign currencies used by our international subsidiaries, including the British Pound, the Euro, the Brazilian Real, the Canadian Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Hong Kong Dollar and the Singapore Dollar, in each case as of March 31, 2018. Although the percentages of our consolidated revenues and costs that are denominated in these currencies are immaterial, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely impacted by volatility in exchange rates or an increase in the number of foreign currency transactions, which substantially increased upon the consummation of our acquisition of Level 3 discussed elsewhere herein. We use a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to this foreign currency risk, measuring the change in financial position arising from a hypothetical 10% change in the exchange rates of these currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. Certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the computation of exposures to market risks. Actual values may differ materially from those disclosed by us from time to time if market conditions vary from the assumptions used in the analyses performed. These analyses only incorporate the risk exposures that existed at March 31, 2018 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018, we had no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we did not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements, (ii) disclosed in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 , or in the Future Contractual Obligations table included in Item 7 of Part II of the same report, or (iii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" above. Other Information Our website is www.centurylink.com. We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. From time to time, we also use our website to webcast our earnings calls and certain of our meetings with investors or other members of the investment community. 50