Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital ResourcesFuture Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. The summary financial information appearing above should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of Part II of this report and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II of this report. 7 Table of Contents Strategy Our over-arching strategic goal is to digitally connect people, data, and applications quickly, securely, and effortlessly. To attain this goal, we strive to, among other things: deliver best in class infrastructure to meet network, transport, data, and computing needs; optimize and innovate the way locations, data centers, and clouds connect; limit, detect, and mitigate network and data security vulnerabilities; expand our product offerings and strengthen our digital self-service ordering platforms; create a more adaptive and integrated network; continue to monetize our network-related assets, principally through the sale of PCF solutions; expand our network capacity through our AI backbone initiative; execute on our Quantum Fiber buildout plan; manage our non-core business for cash flow; and strengthen our financial position and performance through our modernization and simplification initiatives, resulting in lower costs and debt reduction. Our Stakeholders We believe that regular communications with our stakeholders is a vital component of Lumen's success. Our "North Star" strategy focuses on the operating principles of teamwork, trust, and transparency and infuses clarity into the communications we have with all of our stakeholders, including our investors, employees, customers, vendors, partners and our local communities. Employees and Human Capital Resources To position Lumen for growth and success, we have made changes to our senior leadership team that have played a critical role in modernizing our business, attracting new talent and invigorating our culture. Lumens highly competitive business requires attracting, developing and retaining a motivated team inspired by leadership, engaged in meaningful work, motivated by career growth opportunities and thriving in a culture where teamwork, trust, and transparency drive both individual and collective success. Understanding and anticipating the priorities of our current and future employees is important to our future success. We aim to bring together the best mix of talent to develop the brightest ideas to transform industries across the globe. At December 31, 2024, we had approximately 25,000 employees world-wide, including approximately 3,400 outside the U.S. Attracting, Developing and Retaining Talent Our recruiting, development and retention objectives focus on treating talent as a differentiator and a leading indicator of business performance. We strive to hire and retain the best talent available to provide outstanding opportunities for career advancement and to champion fair selections and best hiring practices. We have implemented a rigorous hiring process and established a framework of competency-based success profiles and regular career development and training programs, which we believe empower our employees to pursue their professional goals and improve employee engagement and retention. We invest in broad-based development for our employees in various ways such as skills-building programs, on-demand learning options, tuition reimbursement and tailored intern and mentoring programs, along with a suite of leadership development courses. 8 Table of Contents We have increased our focus on fostering internal mobility and providing more visibility and career advancement opportunities to our workforce through our internal communications platforms. We support this culture of growth through a robust learning ecosystem, offering approximately 8,900 courses within our learning management system, the majority of which are Lumen-specific content, and a vast library of over 150,000 resources on our learning platform. Developing strong leaders who can move our company forward is a priority for Lumen. We gauge the efficacy of our programs, identify opportunities for improvement, and pursue solutions through tracking and analyzing data in a variety of ways, including conducting annual talent reviews and measuring our progress toward goals specified in our talent programs. Positive Corporate Culture At Lumen, we are focused on transforming our business and delivering results for our colleagues, customers, partners, and shareholders. Our employees are critical to Lumen's success and we believe creating a winning culture and teams with different skills, perspectives, experiences, and backgrounds is essential to attracting and retaining engaged employees. Lumen is transforming from the bottom up, by building a culture of teamwork, trust, and transparency. We will continue to recruit and retain the best talent based on individual merit and to create a respectful and engaged workplace. We want our employees to be proud to work with us and fully engaged to share in our purpose to unleash the world's digital potential. Lumen adheres to the principles set forth in its Code of Conduct, and will always endeavor to fully comply with local, state, and federal laws and regulations. Health & Wellness We are committed to promoting the health, safety and well-being of our people, partners, and the communities we serve. Lumen strives to outperform the industry average safety performance as we continue our investments in programs and training to support health and safety. Our aim is to help all of our employees to thrive, and we regularly re-evaluate how to best support our employees well-being through benefits and resources. We invest in the physical, mental, and emotional well-being of our people through a comprehensive suite of benefits. Our benefit and wellness programs are designed to drive engagement that positively impacts our culture, job satisfaction, recruiting and retention programs. We offer progressive employee benefits and enhancements that recognize the unique needs of our people and their families. Labor Relations At December 31, 2024, approximately 21% of our U.S. workforce was represented by a union (either the Communications Workers of America or the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers). A small number of our overseas employees are represented by unions or another representative body. We recognize the critical role that our supervisors and managers play in fostering a productive and respectful work environment, and we encourage employees to work directly with their supervisors, where possible, to efficiently and effectively resolve workplace concerns. We also respect our employees rights to voluntarily establish and join unions and similar associations without unlawful interference. We strive to work collaboratively with the unions, councils and associations that represent our workers. Customer Success Our customers range from individual households to global enterprises. Whether our network supports remote education to under-served communities or a multi-national work-from-home enterprise, all customers are impacted by the quality and reliability of our products and services. Understanding how each customer accesses and uses our products and services informs the type of customer engagement to best meet their expectations. Our commitment to staying abreast of our customers needs is evident in our Customer Advisory Board, a forum where some of our largest customers gather twice a year to discuss emerging technology trends. In addition, the Lumen Customer Community is an interactive online platform designed exclusively for Lumen customers which serves as a central hub where customers can connect with each other and access valuable resources. We believe a strong experience leads to satisfied customers and engaged employees who are encouraged to recommend innovative solutions. 9 Table of Contents We highly value both customer and employee suggestions. We offer our customers several channels for communicating with us, including voice, text, email, chat and social media. We are driving towards a digital-first culture that enables our customers to configure, order and rapidly deploy our services through an all-digital, self-service set of tools. Since 2019, we have hosted an annual customer experience event, during which we invite customers to collaborate directly with us. While careful listening to customers is the best source of customer experience feedback, we believe incorporating employee feedback is the most effective way to collect comprehensive data to continuously improve. We regularly invite our front-line employees to provide feedback on opportunities to improve our capabilities. Partners and Vendors We leverage a digital ecosystem of trusted partners to help us innovate and grow. We seek to engage with those partners and vendors who best contribute to our customers success. Lumen seeks to co-innovate with a comprehensive group of strategic partners to create solutions focused on our customers' business and IT requirements. Through our open and interoperable approach, we seek to identify the optimal platform for serving our customers whether ours or a third partys. When necessary, Lumen incorporates market-leading technologies to optimize application performance and streamline integration throughout the IT stack to ensure seamless integration and interoperability. Lumen has collaborated with a host of technology partners, in an effort to integrate different technologies to improve our products and services. We believe this collaboration has strengthened our capability to tailor and manage scalable solutions that customers control. Given these efforts to better serve our customers, we are materially reliant on a wide range of vendors to support our organization and partners to support our strategy. We work with, and rely on, other communications companies that lease us transmission capacity or sell us various services necessary for our current operations, as well as a wide range of software, hardware and equipment suppliers. We believe that co-innovating with other companies enables us to more rapidly improve our customer offerings. Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability We believe our commitment to environmental sustainability promotes the financial health of our business and strengthens our relations with our employees, communities, customers and investors. Lumen's Sustainability Management Committee (SMC) is the driving force behind our comprehensive sustainability program, including the monitoring of climate-related issues. This cross-functional committee, composed of senior and seasoned leaders from diverse areas of our business, is responsible for driving our sustainability agenda with our Board of Directors and senior leadership. The SMC often works closely with Lumen's Environment, Health and Safety ("EHS") team, a management-level group responsible for overseeing and implementing our EHS and environmental sustainability initiatives. Our EHS program focuses on the following key areas: Environmental compliance and management: The Lumen EHS team assesses and reviews our company programs, operational facilities and waste management vendors. We monitor environmental legislative activity and collaborate with other internal groups to develop documented practices and procedures designed to support compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Energy and emissions: In an effort to reduce our carbon footprint, we continue to identify and implement energy efficiency and greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions reduction initiatives. We recently announced early achievement of our 2018-2025 science-based GHG emissions-reduction targets and we are proud to have exceeded our targets ahead of schedule. We remain committed to exploring ways to reduce GHG emissions through our operational, customer and employee initiatives. Water: Lumen uses the World Resource Institutes Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to assess susceptibility to future water stress across our areas of operation. We strive to reduce our water consumption, especially in the water-stressed communities where we operate. We track our usage, monitor trends, and implement measures to enhance efficiency and reduce discharge. 10 Table of Contents Waste: We are committed to reusing and recycling products, carefully managing our waste and minimizing material use throughout our operations. We encourage customers to return to us their equipment, which is then either reused or sent to a certified recycler. This and other programs enable us to divert electronic and communications equipment from landfills. Supplier environmental assessment: We expect our suppliers to embrace and share our commitment to compliance and sustainability efforts. As reflected in our Supplier Code of Conduct, we expect our suppliers to use reasonable efforts to employ environmentally preferred and energy-efficient services, and to work with their own suppliers to assess and address environmental and sustainability issues within their supply chains. Climate preparedness: We evaluate various climate-related risks to our ongoing operations when we consider expanding our network or facilities. Our comprehensive business continuity program focuses on prevention, collaboration, communication, response and recovery to assist us in quickly resolving disruptive events. Weather events such as severe flooding, wildfires and hurricanes can impact our ability to deliver services, so business resiliency and adaptability is key to the long-term viability of our business. Occupational health and safety: We conduct risk assessments, review safety incident data and monitor health and safety legislation to develop policies and procedures designed to minimize safety hazards and support compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We continuously monitor safety performance to identify trends and evaluate opportunities to eliminate or reduce the risks of workplace hazards. Our Network Our network, through which we provide most of our products and services, consists of fiber-optic and copper cables, high-speed transport equipment, electronics, voice switches, data switches, routers, and various other equipment. We operate part of our network with leased assets, and a substantial portion of our equipment with licensed software. At December 31, 2024, our network (owned and leased) included approximately 340,000 route miles of fiber optic plant, most of which consists of "long-haul" fiber connecting major metropolitan centers and the remainder of which is "metro" fiber that connects buildings within the metropolitan markets we serve. We also own copper-based network infrastructure and multiple gateway and transmission facilities used in connection with operating our network throughout North America. At December 31, 2024, our domestic network connected to (i) approximately 163,000 buildings, which we refer to as fiber on-net buildings, located in 226 metropolitan markets serving our enterprise customer base and (ii) approximately 22.0 million broadband-enabled units capable of receiving our Mass Markets broadband services across 17 states. At December 31, 2024, approximately 4.2 million of our 22.0 million Mass Markets broadband-enabled units were capable of receiving services from our fiber-based infrastructure, with the remainder connected with copper-based infrastructure. Our domestic network also included at such date central office and other equipment that enables us to provide telephone service as an ILEC. As discussed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II of this report and Note 2Divestitures of the Latin American, ILEC and EMEA Businesses to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report, we sold portions of our network during 2022 and 2023. As noted elsewhere in this report, we view our network as one of our most critical assets. We have devoted, and plan to continue to devote, substantial resources to (i) simplify and modernize our network and legacy systems, (ii) retire aging or obsolete systems and plant and (iii) expand our network to address demand for enhanced or new products. A key element of our network expansion plan is our Quantum Fiber buildout project. Under this project, we plan to construct additional fiber optic infrastructure over the next few years to enable us to provide Quantum Fiber broadband services to several million additional urban and suburban locations in our remaining ILEC markets. Although we own most of our network, we lease a substantial portion of our fiber network from several other communication companies under arrangements that will periodically need to be renewed or replaced to support our current network operations. 11 Table of Contents As a critical infrastructure provider, we and our customers are a constant target of cyber-attacks from a wide range of intruders, including advanced persistent threat actors. From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we experience security incidents and disruption in our services. We develop and maintain systems and programs designed to protect against cyber-attacks and network outages. The development, maintenance and operation of these systems and programs is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to bypass security measures become more sophisticated and evolve rapidly. For additional information regarding risks relating to our systems, network assets, network operations, capital expenditure requirements and reliance upon third parties, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report. Competition We compete in a dynamic and highly competitive market in which demand for high-speed, secure data services continues to grow. We expect continued intense competition from a wide variety of sources under these evolving market conditions. In addition to competition from large international communications providers, we are facing competition from a growing number of sources, including systems integrators, hyperscalers, cloud service providers, software networking companies, infrastructure companies, cable companies, wireless service providers, device providers, resellers and smaller niche providers. Our ability to compete hinges upon effectively enhancing and better integrating our existing products, introducing new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, meeting changing customer needs, providing high-quality information security to build customer confidence and combat cyber-attacks, extending our core technology into new applications and anticipating emerging technological and industry changes. Depending on the applicable market and services, competition can be intense, especially if competitors in the market have network assets better suited to customer needs, faster transmission speeds, lower prices, or a longer history of providing service in the market. We compete to provide services to Business customers based on a variety of factors, including the comprehensiveness and reliability of our network, our data transmission speeds, price, the latency of our available network services, the scope of our integrated offerings, the reach and peering capacity of our IP network, digital ordering capabilities, ease of access and use, billing simplicity and customer service. We continue to experience pricing pressure for several of our products and services due to a wide array of large communications companies and systems integrators providing high-speed fiber services to enterprise and wholesale business customers and other companies that market slower-speed non-fiber services typically at lower prices to more price-sensitive customers. Competition to provide broadband services to our Mass Markets customers remains high. Market demand for our broadband services could be adversely affected by (i) advanced wireless data transmission technologies, including fixed wireless and low-earth-orbit satellite services, and (ii) continued enhancements to cable-based services, each of which generally provides faster average broadband transmission speeds than our copper-based infrastructure. In addition, several established or new communications companies, infrastructure companies or municipalities have built or are building new fiber-based networks to provide high-speed broadband services in existing or unserved markets, frequently with the support of governmental subsidies. Our network expansion and innovation strategy is focused largely on addressing these competitive pressures. To meet these demands and remain competitive, we are continuing to invest in network capacity, security, reliability, flexibility and design innovations, including through our Quantum Fiber buildout initiatives. For our traditional voice services, providers of wireless voice, social networking, videoconferencing and electronic messaging services are significant competitors as many customers are increasingly using these services to communicate, resulting in the long-term systemic decline in our traditional voice services. Other potential sources of competition include non-carrier systems that are capable of bypassing our local networks, either partially or completely, through various means. Developments in software have permitted new competitors to offer affordable networking products that historically required more expensive hardware investment. We anticipate that all these trends will continue to decrease use of our voice network. 12 Table of Contents We continue to operate various ILECs, which are obligated under federal law to permit competitors to interconnect their facilities to the ILECs network and to take various other steps that are designed to promote competition, including obligations to (i) negotiate interconnection agreements in good faith, (ii) provide nondiscriminatory unbundled access to specific portions of the ILECs network and (iii) permit competitors to physically or virtually collocate their plant on the ILECs property. Consequently, our ILECs face competition from competitive local exchange carriers ("CLECs"), which typically provide competing services through (i) reselling an ILECs local services, (ii) using an ILECs unbundled network elements, (iii) operating their own facilities, or (iv) a combination thereof. Additional information about competitive pressures is located under the heading Risk FactorsBusiness Risks in Item 1A of Part I of this report. Sales and Marketing Sales Channels Our enterprise sales and marketing approach focuses on solving complex customer problems with advanced technology and network solutions striving to make core networks services compatible with digital tools. We also rely on our call center personnel and a variety of channel partners to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our customers. To meet the needs of different customers, our offerings include both stand-alone services and bundled services, such as our PCF solutions, designed to provide a complete offering of integrated services. Our Business customers range from small business offices to the worlds largest global enterprise customers. Our direct sales representatives generally market our business services to members of in-house IT departments or other highly-sophisticated customers with deep technological experience. These individuals typically satisfy their IT requirements by contracting with us or a rapidly evolving group of competitors, or by deploying in-house solutions. We also market our products and services through inbound call centers, telemarketing and third parties, including telecommunications agents, system integrators, value-added resellers and other telecommunications firms. We support our distribution through digital advertising, events, television advertising, website promotions and public relations. We maintain local offices in most major and secondary markets within the U.S. and many of the primary markets of the other countries in which we provide services. Similarly, our sales and marketing approach to our Mass Market customers emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and service with a local presence. Our approach includes marketing our products and services primarily through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, telemarketing and third parties, including retailers, satellite television providers, door to door sales agents and digital marketing firms. Segments and Products & Services We structure our segments and customer-facing sales channels to align with how we support our customers. We believe this reporting structure provides greater transparency into how we are performing against our strategy, including focusing on growth opportunities and managing declining legacy services. Segments We report our financial performance using two segments, as described below: Business Segment: Under our Business segment, we provide our products and services under five sales channels to meet the needs of our enterprise and commercial customers; and Mass Markets Segment: Under our Mass Markets segment, we provide products and services to domestic residential and small business customers. 13 Table of Contents The following table shows the composition of our operating revenue by segment for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022: Years Ended December 31, Percent Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 Percentage of revenue: Business 79 % 80 % 75 % (1) % 5 % Mass Markets 21 % 20 % 25 % 1 % (5) % Total operating revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % For additional information on our segment data, including information on certain centrally-managed assets and expenses not reflected in our segment results, see Note 17Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsReporting Segments" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Products & Services At December 31, 2024, we categorized our products and services revenue among the following product categories for the Business segment: Grow, which includes products and services that we anticipate will grow, including: Dark Fiber and Conduit. We control an extensive array of unlit optical fiber known as dark fiber which has been laid but not yet been equipped with the equipment necessary for it to transmit data. We provide access to this unlit optical fiber to customers who are interested in building their networks with this high-bandwidth, highly secure optical technology. We also provide access to conduit, which are ducts installed underground to house and protect fiber optic cables. Additionally, we provide professional services to engineer these networks, and in some cases, manage them for customers; Edge Cloud Services. We provide access to both public and private cloud solutions that allow our customers to optimize cost and performance by offloading workloads. Lumens cloud access products are designed to leverage our network edge to provide low-latency secure services for our customers. Additionally, we provide cloud orchestration tools that allow customers to shift work between cloud environments dynamically; Internet Protocol ("IP"). Our IP services provide global internet access over a high performance, diverse network. Our fiber network spans approximately 340,000 route miles globally with extensive off-net access solutions across North America and Asia Pacific; Communications (Voice over IP, "VoIP"). We offer a VoIP portfolio, including session initiation protocol ("SIP") trunking, and our Cloud Voice Solution, which combines hosted voice, SIP trunking, and branded collaboration. Our Cloud Communications platform moves voice communications to the cloud for seamless communication, operational efficiency, and reliable, cost-effective support for critical safety systems; Managed Security Services. We provide enterprise security solutions that help our customers secure networks, mitigate malicious attacks and identify potential security threats. These services include DDoS mitigation, remote and premise-based firewalls, professional consulting and management services, and threat intelligence services; Software-Defined Wide Area Networks ("SD WAN"). We offer Lumen-managed and co-managed SD-WAN solutions to help reduce the complexity and business risk of network transformation on a single, automated platform that coordinates the full spectrum of connectivity types. Our tools, technology and hands-on expertise provide the ability to design, deploy and evolve with business needs while maintaining complete visibility, security and control; 14 Table of Contents Unified Communications and Collaboration ("UC&C"). We provide access to various unified communications platforms. This offering includes both individual, license-based service models and more robust enterprise-wide options that transform a customers various communication tools into a single platform; and Optical Services. We deliver high bandwidth optical wavelength networks to customers requiring an end-to-end solution with ethernet technology for a scalable amount of bandwidth connecting sites or providing high-speed access to cloud computing resources. Nurture, which includes our more mature offerings, such as: Ethernet. We deliver a robust array of networking services built on ethernet technology. Ethernet services include point-to-point and multi-point equipment configurations that facilitate data transmissions across metropolitan areas and larger enterprise-class wide area networks. Our ethernet technology is also used by wireless service providers for data transmission via our fiber-optic cables connected to their towers; and VPN Data Networks. Leveraging our extensive fiber-optic network, we create private networks tailored to our customers needs. These technologies enable enterprises, government entities and service providers to streamline multiple networks into a cost-effective solution that simplifies the transmission of voice, video, and data over a single secure network. Harvest, which includes our legacy services managed for cash flow, including: Voice Services. We offer our customers a complete portfolio of traditional Time Division Multiplexing voice services including primary rate interface service, local inbound service, switched one-plus, toll free, long distance and international services; and Private Line. We deliver private line services, a direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for connecting two or more organizational sites. Private line service offers a high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites, including wireless backhaul transmissions. Other, which includes: Equipment. We sell and install certain communications equipment. Managed and Professional Service Solutions. We craft technology solutions for our customers and often manage these solutions on an ongoing basis. These services frequently enhance equipment or networks owned, acquired, or controlled by the customer and often include our consulting or software development services; and Other Legacy Services. We continue to provide certain services based on older platforms to support our customers as they transition to newer technology. These services include Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) based ethernet, legacy data hosting services, and conferencing services. 15 Table of Contents At December 31, 2024, we reported our products and services revenue among the following categories for the Mass Markets segment: Fiber Broadband, under which we provide high speed broadband services to residential and small business customers utilizing our fiber-based network infrastructure; Other Broadband, under which we provide primarily lower speed broadband services to residential and small business customers utilizing our copper-based network infrastructure; and Voice and Other, under which we derive revenues from (i) providing local and long-distance voice services, professional services, and other ancillary services, and (ii) federal broadband and state support programs. Research, Development & Intellectual Property As of December 31, 2024, we held approximately 2,400 patents and patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. We have also received licenses to use patents held by others. We plan to continue to file new patent applications as we enhance and develop products and services, and we plan to continue to seek opportunities to expand our patent portfolio through strategic acquisitions and licensing. In addition to our patent rights, we have rights in various trade names, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property that we use to conduct our business. Our services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed software. We also occasionally license our intellectual property to others as we deem appropriate. For information on various litigation risks associated with owning and using intellectual property rights, see Risk FactorsBusiness Risks in Item 1A of Part I of this report, and Note 18Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Regulation of Our Business Our domestic operations are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC"), by various state regulatory commissions and occasionally by local agencies. Our non-domestic operations are regulated by supranational groups (such as the European Union, or "EU"), national agencies and frequently state, provincial or local bodies. Generally, we must obtain and maintain operating licenses from these bodies in most areas where we offer regulated services. Changes in the composition and leadership of the FCC, state regulatory commissions and other agencies that regulate our business could have significant impacts on our revenue, expenses, competitive position and prospects. Changes in the composition and leadership of these agencies are often difficult to predict, which makes future planning more difficult. The following description discusses some of the major regulations affecting our operations, but others could have a substantial impact on us as well. For additional information, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report. Federal Regulation of Domestic Operations General The FCC regulates the interstate services we provide, including the business data service charges we bill for wholesale network transmission and intercarrier compensation, including the interstate access charges that we bill other communications companies in connection with the origination and termination of interstate phone calls. Additionally, the FCC regulates several aspects of our business related to international communications services, privacy, public safety and network infrastructure, including (i) our access to and use of local telephone numbers, (ii) our provision of emergency 911 services, and (iii) our use or removal (potentially on a reimbursable basis) of equipment produced by certain vendors deemed to cause potential national security risks. We could incur substantial penalties if we fail to comply with the FCCs applicable regulations. 16 Table of Contents Many of the FCCs regulations adopted in recent years remain subject to judicial review and additional rule-makings, thus increasing the difficulty of determining the ultimate impact of these changes on us and our competitors. Universal Service For several years, the federal government has instituted various funding programs to facilitate greater access to broadband services, including those noted below. Between 2015 and 2021, we received approximately $500 million annually through Phase II of the FCC's Connect America Fund ("CAF II"), a broadband support program that ended on December 31, 2021. In connection with the CAF II funding, we were required to meet certain specified infrastructure buildout requirements in 33 states by the end of 2021, which required substantial capital expenditures. In the first quarter of 2022, we recognized $59 million of previously deferred revenue related to the conclusion of the CAF II program based upon our final buildout and filing submissions. The government has the right to audit our compliance with the CAF II program. The ultimate outcome of any remaining examinations is unknown, but could result in a liability to us in excess of our accruals established for these matters. In January 2020, the FCC created the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (RDOF) program, a federal support program designed to fund broadband deployment in rural America. For the first phase of this program, RDOF Phase I, the FCC awarded $6.4 billion in support payments to be paid in equal monthly installments over 10 years. We were awarded RDOF funding in several of the states in which we operate and began receiving monthly support payments during the second quarter of 2022. We received approximately $17 million in annual RDOF Phase I support payments for each of the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. In the third quarter of 2024, we relinquished rights to develop certain RDOF census blocks in four states, which resulted in (i) a reduction of our anticipated RDOF Phase I support payments to approximately $16 million for the year ending December 31, 2024 and $15 million each remaining year thereafter and (ii) an expectation of payment to the federal government, which we anticipate will be approximately $10 million. Federal officials have proposed changes to current programs and laws that could impact us, including proposals designed to increase broadband access, increase competition among broadband providers, lower broadband costs and re-adopt "net neutrality" rules similar to those adopted by a few states. In late 2021, the U.S. Congress enacted legislation that appropriated $65 billion to improve broadband affordability and access, primarily through federally funded state grants. As of the date of this report, various state and federal agencies are continuing to take steps to make this funding available to eligible applicants. We believe that the release of this funding could increase competition for broadband customers. In mid-2024, a federal appellate court ruled that the FCC's universal service funding system, which levied fees against us and other telecommunication companies, was unlawful. Due to pending judicial and legislative proceedings, it is unclear how this development may ultimately impact us. For additional information about these programs, see (i) Note 4Revenue Recognition to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this report and (ii) "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Broadband Regulation In February 2015, the FCC adopted an order regulating broadband internet access services (BIAS) as a common carrier service under Title II of the Communications Act of 1934. In December 2017, the FCC voted to repeal this order. In May 2024, the FCC adopted a new order regulating BIAS as a Title II utility service, but a federal appeals court vacated this order in January 2025. Several states have proposed, implemented or enacted laws or orders focused on state-specific Internet service regulation. In addition, certain members of Congress and various consumer interest groups have advocated in favor of classifying BIAS as a Title II utility service. These developments make it difficult to predict the future degree of regulation of BIAS. Any imposition of heightened regulation of our Internet operations could potentially hamper our ability to operate our data networks efficiently, restrict our ability to implement network management practices necessary to ensure quality service, increase the cost of operating, maintaining and upgrading our network, and otherwise negatively impact our current operations. 17 Table of Contents State Regulation of Domestic Operations Historically ILECs, including ours, have been regulated as common carriers, and state regulatory commissions have generally exercised jurisdiction over intrastate voice telecommunications services and their associated facilities. In recent years, most states have reduced their regulation of ILECs. State regulatory commissions generally continue to (i) set the rates that telecommunications companies charge each other for exchanging traffic, (ii) exercise some control over the rates telecommunications companies charge their customers for regulated services, (iii) require ILECs to provide voice service throughout their territories, particularly in areas where alternative voice service is not available, (iv) administer support programs designed to subsidize the provision of services to high-cost rural areas, (v) regulate the purchase and sale of ILECs, (vi) require ILECs to provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices of regulated services, (vii) limit ILECs ability to borrow and pledge their assets, (viii) regulate transactions between ILECs and their affiliates and (ix) impose various other service standards. In most states, switched and business data services and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. State agencies also regulate certain aspects of non-ILEC communications businesses, including determining carriers eligibility to receive federal universal service fund support. Data Privacy Laws and Regulations Various foreign, federal and state laws govern our storage, maintenance and use of customer data, including a wide range of consumer protection, data protection, privacy, intellectual property and similar laws. Data privacy regulations are complex and vary across jurisdictions. As a company providing global services, we must comply with various jurisdictional data privacy regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the EU and similar laws adopted by various other jurisdictions in certain of our domestic and overseas markets. Domestically, the number of state privacy laws continues to increase. The application, interpretation and enforcement of these laws are often uncertain, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. These regulations require careful handling of personal and customer data and could have a significant impact on our business, especially if we violate any of those regulations. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Regulations As a provider of global services, we must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations governing business ethics and practices, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and anti-competition regulations. We have compliance policies, programs and training designed to prevent non-compliance with such anti-corruption regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Regulation of International Operations Our subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. are subject to various regulations in the markets where service is provided. The scope of regulation varies from country to country. The communications regulatory regimes in certain of our non-domestic markets are in the process of development and do not fully address many issues, including the pricing of services. Our overseas operations are also subject to various other domestic or non-domestic laws or regulations, including various laws or regulations governing (i) exports and imports of various goods or technologies, (ii) certain sanctioned business activities, and (iii) competition. 18 Table of Contents Other Regulations Our networks and properties are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the use, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, the release of pollutants into the environment and the remediation of contamination. Our contingent liabilities under these laws are further described in Note 18Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items. Certain federal and state agencies, including attorneys general, monitor and exercise oversight related to consumer protection issues. We are also subject to codes that regulate our trenching and construction operations or that require us to obtain permits, licenses or franchises to operate. Such regulations are enacted by municipalities, counties, state, federal or other regional governmental bodies, and can vary widely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction as a result. Such regulations may also require us to pay substantial fees or impact our network buildout initiatives. Seasonality Overall, our business is not materially impacted by seasonality. Our network-related operating expenses are, however, generally higher in the second and third quarters of the year. From time to time, weather-related problems have resulted in increased costs to repair our network and respond to service calls in some of our markets. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given year but have generally been highest during the third quarter and have been related to damage from severe storms, including hurricanes, tropical storms and tornadoes. Additional Information From time to time, we may make investments in other communications or technology companies. For further information on regulatory, technological and competitive factors that could impact our revenue, see "Risk Factors" below under Item 1A. For more information on the financial contributions of our various services, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Website Access and Important Investor Information We were incorporated in Louisiana in 1968. Our website is www.lumen.com. We routinely post important investor information in the Investor Relations section of our website at ir.lumen.com. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this report or any other periodic reports that we file with the SEC. Any references to our website in this report or any other periodic reports that we file with the SEC are provided for convenience only, and are not intended to make any of our website information a part of this or such other reports. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K (i) in the Investor Relations section of our website (ir.lumen.com) under the heading FINANCIALS and subheading SEC Filings" or (ii) on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. In like manner, you may obtain free electronic copies of reports filed by two of our principal subsidiaries, which contain supplemental information about us that you may find useful. From time to time, we also use our website to webcast our earnings calls and certain of our meetings with investors or other members of the investment community. We have adopted a written Code of Conduct that serves as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, in accordance with applicable laws and rules promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. In the event that we make any changes (other than by a technical, administrative or non-substantive amendment) to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of our Code of Conduct applicable to our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website. The Code of Conduct, as well as various other governance documents, are also available in the Governance section of our website at www.lumen.com/en-us/about/governance or in print to any shareholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate Secretary at Lumen Technologies, Inc., 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana, 71203. In connection with filing this report, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and its related regulations. In addition, during 2024, our chief executive officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that she was unaware of any violations by us of the New York Stock Exchanges corporate governance listing standards. 19 Table of Contents As a large complex organization, we are from time to time subject to litigation, disputes, governmental or internal investigations, consent decrees, service outages, security breaches or other adverse events. We typically publicly disclose these occurrences (and their ultimate outcomes) only when we determine these disclosures to be material to investors or otherwise required by applicable law. We typically disclose material non-public information by disseminating press releases, making public filings with the SEC, or disclosing information during publicly accessible meetings or conference calls. Nonetheless, from time to time we have used, and intend to continue to use, our website and social media accounts to augment our disclosures. Although at various times we answer questions raised by securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst with respect to our past or projected performance. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding industry conditions are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources and making assumptions based on our industry knowledge and experience. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. We have developed methodologies for calculating certain of our statistical data, including route miles, fiber miles (determined by multiplying the route miles of fiber cables by the cable's fiber strands), broadband subscribers, broadband-enabled units, fiber on-net buildings (which are buildings in metropolitan markets connected to our network) and similar metrics. We may calculate these amounts differently from other industry participants. Our principal executive offices and telephone number are listed on the cover page of this report. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion identifies material factors that could (i) materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects or (ii) cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results, projections or other expectations. The following information should be read in conjunction with the other portions of this annual report, including Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8. All references to "Notes" in this Item 1A of Part I refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Please note the following discussion is not intended to comprehensively list all risks or uncertainties faced by us. Our operations or actual results could also be similarly impacted by additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us, that we currently deem to be immaterial, that arise in the future or that are not specific to us. In addition, certain of the risks described below apply only to a part or segment of our business. Business Risks Challenges with integrating or modernizing our existing applications and systems could harm our performance. To attain our operational and strategic goals and our projected cost savings, we need to integrate, simplify, upgrade, and modernize our existing applications and systems, including many legacy systems from past acquisitions. This process will require us to, among other things, timely retire aging or obsolete systems, deploy a master data management platform, and integrate various legacy IT systems into a new, simplified structure. These modernization efforts will require efficient allocation of resources, development capacity, greater use of artificial intelligence (AI) and other emerging technologies, access to subject-matter experts, development of a sustainable and resilient operating model, advanced project management capabilities, and successful collaboration among personnel with differing expertise. We cannot assure you these efforts will be successful. Any failure to timely accomplish these initiatives may negatively affect our (i) ability to deliver services to our customers at required speed and scale, (ii) ability to realize anticipated efficiencies and attain our operational cost reduction projections, (iii) network stability, (iv) ability to timely repair infrastructure and respond to service outages or (v) ability to meet regulatory, legal or contractual obligations. We may not be able to create the global digital experience expected by customers. Our customers expect us to create and maintain a global digital platform, including (i) automation and simplification of our offerings and (ii) digital self-service access to our products, services and customer support. To do so, we must timely and successfully complete the digital transformation of our operations that is currently underway. Effective digital transformation is a complex, dynamic process requiring efficient allocation and prioritization of resources, simplification of our product portfolio, faster product deployments, retirement of obsolete systems, migration of data, and corresponding transformations of our workforce and systems. We cannot assure you we will be able to timely effect the successful digital transformation necessary to develop or deliver a global digital experience expected by our customers. If we are unable to do so, we could lose existing customers or fail to attract new ones, either of which could prevent us from attaining our financial goals. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our strategic focus on selling PCF solutions. During the second half of 2024, we announced that Lumen and its subsidiaries had recently sold several billion dollars of new PCF solutions. Full payment for certain deals involving construction of new routes depends on fulfilling certain delivery obligations or other performance conditions, and revenue under our PCF agreements may be less than anticipated. Our costs under these agreements may be greater than anticipated due to construction delays or cost overruns as a result of weather, supply chain, labor, permitting, or other unforeseen issues. If demand for data center connectivity declines or customer needs or preferences change for any other reason, future demand for, and the profitability of, our PCF solutions could decline or cease. 21 Table of Contents Our attempts to capitalize on emerging market opportunities may not be as successful as envisioned. Growth in AI products and other recent industry changes have fueled demand for higher transmission speeds, greater bandwidth, lower latency and more advanced networking services. In response, we are endeavoring to build a digital networking services ecosystem that enables us to offer attractive products and services (including PCF solutions) that fulfill this market demand. But, as indicated by other disclosures in this Item 1A, our success will be dependent on improving and integrating our systems and meeting evolving customer demands in a highly competitive industry experiencing rapid advances in technology. For these reasons and others, our attempts to capitalize on emerging market opportunities may not be as successful as we currently envision. In connection with establishing our strategies and earnings guidance, we have assumed that the continued development of AI will continue to drive robust demand for our products and services, which subjects us to the risk of misallocating our resources if AI-related demand fails to meet current expectations. We operate in an intensely competitive industry and existing and future competitive pressures could harm our performance. Each of our Business and Mass Market offerings faces increasingly intense competition from a wide range of sources under evolving market conditions that have increased the number and variety of companies that compete with us. Some of our current and potential competitors: (i) offer products or services that are substitutes for our traditional wireline services, including wireless broadband, wireless voice and non-voice communication services, (ii) offer a more comprehensive range of communications products and services, (iii) operate systems that are newer, more integrated or more advanced, which enable them to provision services faster and more efficiently, (iv) have greater financial, provisioning, technical, engineering, research, development, marketing, customer relations or other resources, (v) conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost, (vi) are subject to less regulation, (vii) have stronger brand names, (viii) have deeper or more long-standing relationships with key customers, or (ix) have larger operations than ours, any of which may enable them to compete more successfully for customers, strategic partners and acquisitions. In recent years, competitive pressures have commoditized pricing for some of our products and services and lowered market prices for many of our other products and services. Continued competitive pressures will likely place further downward pressure on market pricing. Our ability to successfully compete could be hampered if we fail to timely develop and market innovative technology solutions that address changing customer demands. The technology and communications industry has been and continues to be impacted by significant technological changes, which are increasing demand for digitally-integrated products and enabling an increasing variety of companies to compete with us. Many of these technological changes are (i) displacing or reducing demand for certain of our services, (ii) enabling the development of competitive products or services, (iii) enabling customers to reduce or bypass use of our networks or (iv) reducing our profit margins. For example, our competitors may overbuild in our markets and roll out high speed connectivity products. Increasingly, customers are demanding higher transmission speeds and more technologically advanced products that suit their evolving needs, including traditional and generative AI services. As we note below, several of our competitors have dedicated substantially more resources to developing such advanced services. If we fail to develop competitive services, our business and financial performance could be adversely impacted. To remain competitive, we will need to accurately predict and respond to changes in technology, to continue developing and offering products and services attractive to our customers, to migrate our customers from legacy to newer products and services, to timely provision our products and services, to maintain and expand our network to enable it to support customer demands for significantly greater transmission capacity and speeds, and to discontinue outdated products and services on a cost-effective basis. Our ability to do so could be restricted by various factors, including limitations of our existing network, technology, capital or personnel. If we fail at that, we could fail to retain customers or attract new ones. 22 Table of Contents As we continue to transform our organization, we may be unable to attract, develop and retain leaders and employees with the right skill sets and technical expertise. As we continue to transform into a company that primarily serves Business customers requiring newer advanced products, we may be unable to attract and retain skilled and motivated leaders and employees who possess the technical, development, operational, sales or managerial expertise to execute our plans for transformation, innovation and strategic growth. We operate in a highly competitive and expanding industry, where competition for highly skilled employees has grown increasingly intense and competitors have targeted hiring our employees. The prevalence of remote working arrangements has expanded the pool of companies that can compete for our employees and employee candidates. We believe some of our competitors with greater resources and fewer cost constraints than us have from time to time been able to offer compensation or benefits in excess of what we are able to offer. These risks to attracting and retaining key personnel may have been exacerbated by the impacts of the relatively low trading price of our common stock, which, as discussed below, has diminished the attractiveness of our equity incentive compensation programs. Our failure to successfully attract and retain key personnel could materially adversely impact our business or financial performance. Over half of our employees work fully from home, and a substantial portion of the remainder work partly from home under "hybrid" work schedules. These work arrangements may impair our ability to maintain our collaborative and innovative culture, and may lower the productivity and collegiality of our workforce. Uncertainty regarding our future prospects could adversely impact our ability to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees, customers, vendors and others. For several years we have experienced declining revenues and high debt levels, which has created uncertainties regarding our future prospects and ability to discharge our obligations. Despite the positive impacts of our 2024 PCF agreements and debt transactions, these uncertainties persist. Concerns regarding our future prospects and ability to discharge our obligations, coupled with a relatively low stock trading price and recent reductions of our workforce, could adversely impact our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees. We grant equity-based incentive awards to key personnel, the value of which is tied to our stock price, our financial performance or both. If recipients of those awards are concerned about our future stock price or financial performance, they may view less favorably the value of their equity awards and the competitiveness of their total compensation package. Similarly, customers, vendors, landlords, banks or other third parties may be less willing to transact business with us if they believe our future is uncertain, any of which could adversely impact our business, financial performance, financial position or future prospects. In addition, a relatively low stock price could limit our ability to raise capital through the issuance of capital stock and could limit the number of financial analysts willing to publish reports about us. We could be harmed if our reputation is damaged. We believe our Lumen and other brand names and our reputation are important corporate assets that help us attract and retain customers and talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with customers or competitors, cyber-attacks, service outages, data breaches, internal control deficiencies, performance failures, compliance violations, employee misconduct, government investigations or legal proceedings. Similar events impacting one of our competitors could result in negative publicity for our entire industry that indirectly harms our business. We may also experience reputational damage if customers, vendors, employees, advocacy groups, regulators, investors, the media, social media influencers or others criticize our services, operations or public positions. For instance, we could be harmed if our customer experience scores, as measured by "NPS" (Net Promoter Score) and "CHS" (Customer Health Score), for our products and services are low or declining relative to our competitors. In addition, the reputational risk of unauthorized disclosure of confidential company or customer data could increase to the extent our employees inappropriately use social networking sites or other emerging technologies, such as generative AI tools. There is a risk that negative or inaccurate information about Lumen, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. Damage to our reputation could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to repair. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the Lumen brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, having a material adverse impact on the value of our securities. 23 Table of Contents We could be harmed by cyber-attacks. As a critical infrastructure service provider, we transmit large amounts of data over our systems, and process and store highly sensitive customer data. Consequently we, our third-party service providers, and our customers are under constant threat of cyber attacks. The number and sophistication of these attacks continues to increase. Despite our efforts to prevent these events, some of these attacks could result in a material adverse impact to our operations due to distributed denial of service attacks, ransomware attacks, malware, virus, credential harvesting, man-in-the-middle attacks, or social engineering attacks. As previously disclosed in our 2023 reports to the SEC and various 2024 media reports, (i) sophisticated threat actors accessed our internal information technology systems in 2023 and 2024 and (ii) we experienced a ransomware attack on a limited number of our servers in 2023. The ransomware attack did not impact any operations or customer data. We do not believe these incidents had or are likely to have a material adverse impact on our ability to serve our customers or our business, operations or financial results. As further described in Item 1C of this annual report, cyber-attacks on our systems may stem from a variety of sources and take many forms. Cyber-attacks can put at risk personally identifiable information, customer data or protected health information, thereby implicating stringent domestic and foreign data protection laws. These threats may also arise from failure or intrusions of systems owned, operated or controlled by other unaffiliated third-party operators, upon whom we are materially reliant to operate our business. Various other factors could intensify these risks, including, (i) our maintenance of information in digital form stored on servers connected to the Internet, (ii) our use of open- and software-defined networks, (iii) the challenges of operating and maintaining our complex multi-continent network composed of legacy and acquired properties, which is more difficult to safeguard than newer fully-integrated networks, (iv) growth in the size and sophistication of our customers and their service requirements, (v) increased use of our network due to greater demand for data services, (vi) the large number of our employees working from remote locations, (vii) our IT support agreements with purchasers of businesses we have divested over the past few years and (viii) as further discussed below, the difficulty of defending against increasingly sophisticated attacks. Cyber-attacks could (i) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems, which could in turn disrupt the operations of our customers, (ii) result in the destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive, classified or otherwise valuable information of ours, our employees, our customers or our customers end users, (iii) require us to notify customers, regulatory agencies or the public of data incidents, (iv) damage our reputation or result in a loss of business, (v) require us to provide credits for future service to our customers or to offer expensive incentives to retain customers, (vi) subject us to claims by our customers or regulators for damages, fines, penalties, license or permit revocations or other remedies, (vii) result in the loss of industry certifications or (viii) require significant management attention or financial resources to remedy the resulting damages or to change our systems. Any or all of the foregoing developments could have a material adverse impact on us. We believe the importance of our network to global internet data flows will continue to make it a target to a wide range of threat actors, including nation state actors and other advanced persistent threat actors. Moreover, the risk of incidents is likely to continue to increase due to several factors, including (i) the increasing use of machine learning, AI and other sophisticated techniques to initiate cyber and phishing attacks, (ii) the wider accessibility of cyber-attack tools that can circumvent security controls and evade detection, which can delay and limit our ability to accurately assess and fully remediate the impact of the attack, and (iii) growing threats from Chinese, Russian and other state actors due to heightened geopolitical tensions and rivalries, and the attendant increased possibility of cyber warfare targeting us in the event of a direct conflict. It should also be noted that defenses against cyber-attacks currently available to us and others are unlikely to prevent intrusions by a highly-determined, highly-sophisticated threat actor. Consequently, you should assume that we will continue to experience cyber incidents in the future. Thus far, none of our past security incidents have had a material adverse effect on us, and we continue to take steps designed to limit our cyber risks. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that future cyber incidents or events will not ultimately have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial results. Although we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions (including self-insured deductibles, coverage restrictions and monetary coverage caps), cover certain aspects of our cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover our losses. 24 Table of Contents We could be harmed by outages in our network or various platforms, or other failures of our services. From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we experience outages in our network, hosting, cloud or IT platforms, or failures of our products or services (includingbasic and enhanced 911 emergency services) to perform in the manner anticipated. These disruptions expose us to several of the same risks listed above for cyber-attacks, including the loss of customers, the issuance of credits or refunds, and regulatory fines. We remain vulnerable to future disruptions due to several factors, including the challenges of maintaining and replacing aging or obsolete network elements, human error, continuous changes in our network, the introduction of new products or technologies, vulnerabilities in our vendors or supply chain, aberrant employees and hardware and software limitations. The process for remediating any interruptions, outages, delays or cessations of service could be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive than planned. Delayed sales, lower margins, fines or lost customers resulting from future disruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and stock price. Several of our services continue to experience declining revenue, and our efforts to offset these declines may not be successful. Primarily as a result of the competitive and technological changes discussed above, we have experienced a prolonged systemic decline in our local voice, long-distance voice, network access and private line revenues. Consequently, we have experienced declining consolidated revenues (excluding acquisitions) for a prolonged period and have not been able to realize cost savings sufficient to fully offset the decline. More recently, wholesale pricing pressure and other factors have caused us to experience declines in revenue derived from a broader array of our products and services, including those marketed to our Business customers as our nurture and harvest offerings. In addition, most of our more recent product and service offerings generate lower profit margins and may have shorter lifespans than our traditional communication services, and some can be expected to experience slowing or no growth in the future. Some of our new product offerings have reduced or displaced our sale of older higher-margin product offerings. Accordingly, the operating and strategic plans that we have implemented to address these challenges may not succeed in attaining our goal of achieving future revenue growth in the time frames we project, or at all. Our operations, financial performance and liquidity are materially reliant on key suppliers, vendors and other third parties. Our ability to conduct our operations could have a material adverse impact on us if certain of our arrangements with third parties were terminated, including those further described below. Reliance on other communications providers. To offer certain services in certain of our markets, we must either purchase services or lease network capacity from, or interconnect our network with, the infrastructure of other communications carriers or cloud companies who typically compete against us in those markets. Our reliance on these supply or interconnection arrangements limits our control over the delivery, quality and quantity of these purchased services. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that other companies may be unwilling or unable to continue or renew these arrangements in the future for several reasons, including bankruptcy. Those risks are heightened when we contract with a competitor who may have incentives to act in ways unfavorable to us, including by terminating those contracts, imposing price increases or favoring their transmissions over ours. Additionally, several companies rely on our network to transmit their data or voice traffic. Their reliance on our network exposes us to the risk that they may transfer all or a portion of this traffic from our network to alternative networks owned, constructed or leased by them, thereby reducing our revenue. For instance, certain of our hyperscaler customers have built infrastructure that has reduced their reliance on us. Reliance on key suppliers and vendors. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors to provide us, directly or through other suppliers, with equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure, including fiber optic cable, software, optronics, transmission electronics, digital switches, routing equipment, customer premise equipment, and related components. We also rely on software and service vendors or other parties to assist us with operating, maintaining and administering our business, including billing, security, provisioning and general operations. Our operations could be adversely affected in the future if any of these vendors are unable or unwilling for any reason to continue to deliver their products or services on terms acceptable to us, including due to business interruptions, security incidents, litigation, financial distress, bankruptcy or changes in their operations or business strategies. 25 Table of Contents Reliance on key licensors. We rely on key technologies licensed from third parties to deliver certain of our products and services. Our agreements with these licensors may expire or be terminated, and some of the licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all, including if the third-party licensor violates, or is alleged to have violated, the intellectual property rights of others. Moreover, if we incorporate licensed technology into our network, we may have limited flexibility to deploy different technologies from alternative licensors. Reliance on key customer contracts. We have several complex high-value national and global customer contracts. These contracts are frequently impacted by a variety of factors that could reduce or eliminate the profitability of these contracts. Moreover, we would be adversely impacted if we fail to renew major contracts upon their expiration. Reliance on landowners. We rely on rights-of-way, colocation agreements, franchises, licenses and other authorizations granted by governmental bodies, railway companies, utilities, carriers and other third parties to locate a portion of our network equipment over, on or under their respective properties, or to conduct operations within their jurisdictions. A significant number of these authorizations are scheduled to lapse over the next five to 10 years, unless we are able to extend or renew them. Our operations could be adversely affected if any of these authorizations are cancelled, or otherwise terminate or lapse, or if the landowner requests price increases. Similarly, our buildout plans can be delayed if we cannot receive necessary landowner authorizations or governmental permits. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully extend these arrangements when their terms expire, or to enter into new arrangements that may be necessary to implement our network expansion opportunities. Extreme weather conditions and climate changes could disrupt our operations, cause us to incur substantial additional capital and operating costs or negatively affect our business. A substantial number of our domestic facilities are located in areas that subject them to the risks associated with severe tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, wildfires or other similar casualty events. From time to time these events (including Hurricane Ian in 2022 in Florida) have disrupted our operations, and similar future events could cause substantial damages, including downed transmission lines, flooded facilities, power outages, fuel shortages, network delays or failures, damaged or destroyed property and equipment, and business interruptions. Due to substantial deductibles, coverage limits and exclusions, and limited availability, we have typically recovered only a portion of our losses through insurance. Our system redundancy and other measures we take to protect our infrastructure and operations from the impacts of such events may be ineffective or inadequate to sustain our operations following such events. Any of these occurrences could result in lost revenues from business interruption, damage to our reputation and reduced profits. Climate changes may increase the frequency or severity of natural disasters and other extreme weather events in the future, which would increase our exposure to the above-cited risks and could disrupt our supply chain from our key suppliers and vendors. Climate changes could also require us to continue to increase our spending on network resilience initiatives, and could result in additional regulation impacting our operations or profitability. Our environmental programs and disclosures may expose us to reputational, legal and business risks. Our reputation and brands could be impacted by our public environmental initiatives, including our environmental sustainability initiatives. These initiatives, goals, or targets could be difficult to achieve and costly to implement. To the extent that our required or voluntary disclosures about environmental initiatives increase, we could be criticized for their accuracy, adequacy, or completeness. We could fail to achieve, or be perceived to fail to achieve, our environmental-related initiatives, goals, or targets. Our actual or perceived failure to achieve our environmental-related initiatives, goals, targets, or to meet evolving stakeholder expectations or standards, could adversely impact us by resulting in legal or regulatory proceedings against us, customer or employee attrition, reputational damage, or other negative impacts on our business. Conversely, we may fail to attract or retain customers, vendors, employees or other stakeholders who are opposed to our environmental-related initiatives, or may face claims from stakeholders who believe such initiatives harmed them or us. 26 Table of Contents We face other business risks. We face other business risks, including among others, (i) the difficulties of managing and administering an organization that offers a complex set of products to a diverse range of customers across several continents, (ii) the possibility that supply constraints, labor shortages, construction delays or other factors could hamper our ability to attain our infrastructure buildout plans, (iii) the risk that the continuation of high vacancy rates in the fiber on-net buildings we serve could reduce demand for our services. and (iv) the risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or disposing of businesses, or engaging in other strategic transactions. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to an extensive, evolving regulatory framework that could create operational or compliance costs. As explained in greater detail elsewhere in this annual report, (i) our domestic operations are regulated by the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies and (ii) our international operations are regulated by a wide range of various foreign and international bodies. We cannot assure you we will be successful in obtaining or retaining all regulatory licenses necessary to carry out our business in our various markets. Even if we are, the prescribed service standards and conditions imposed on us under these licenses and related laws may increase our costs, limit our operational flexibility or result in third-party claims. We are subject to numerous requirements and interpretations under various international, federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, which are often quite detailed or unclear and are occasionally in conflict with each other. Accordingly, we cannot ensure we will always be in compliance with all these requirements at any particular time. Various governmental agencies, including state attorneys general with jurisdiction over our operations, have routinely in the past investigated our business practices either in response to customer complaints or on their own initiative, and are expected to continue to do the same in the future. Certain of these investigations have resulted in substantial fines in the past. On occasion, we have resolved such matters by entering into consent decrees, which are court orders that frequently restrict our future conduct. If breached by us, these consent decrees expose us not only to contractual remedies, but also to judicial enforcement via contempt of court proceedings, any of which could have material adverse consequences. Additionally, future investigations can potentially result in enforcement actions, litigation, fines, settlements or reputational harm, or could cause us to change our sales practices or operations. Our prior or current participation in certain of the FCC's buildout programs subjects us to certain financial risks. For example, if we are not in compliance with FCC measures by the end of the CAF II or RDOF programs, we could incur substantial penalties or forfeitures, including but not limited to being suspended or disbarred from future governmental programs or contracts, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. From time to time, legislative or regulatory bodies create new subsidy programs designed to enhance the communications infrastructure in the U.S. (such as Congresss creation of a $65 billion broadband connectivity fund in 2021), which in the past have typically increased the number of companies offering competing products in certain of our markets. We provide products or services to various federal, state and local agencies. Our failure to comply with complex governmental regulations and laws applicable to these programs, or the terms of our governmental contracts, could result in us suffering substantial negative publicity or penalties, being suspended or debarred from future governmental programs or contracts for a significant period of time and, in certain instances, could lead to the revocation of our FCC licenses. Moreover, certain governmental agencies frequently reserve the right to terminate their contracts for convenience or if funding is unavailable. If our governmental contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from governmental programs or contracts, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. A variety of state, national, foreign and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal and other data. The European Union and other international regulators, as well as some state governments, have recently enacted or enhanced data privacy legal requirements, and other governments are considering establishing similar or stronger protections. Many of these laws are complex and change frequently and often conflict with the laws in other jurisdictions. Some of our customers impose similar requirements on us that are equally or more demanding. If we fail to comply with any of these governmental or contractual requirements, we could incur potential substantial penalties and reputational damage. 27 Table of Contents For years, the laws governing our operations have been unsettled, which has impacted our ability to plan for the future. We expect regulatory uncertainty to increase following a 2024 U.S. Supreme Court decision reversing a prior ruling that required courts to defer to reasonable agency interpretations of ambiguous federal laws. New laws or court decisions could affect our services or expose us to burdensome requirements or liabilities. In particular, our business could be materially impacted if the U.S. Congress amends or eliminates current federal law limitations on the liability of private network providers, such as us, against claims related to third-party content stored or transmitted on private networks, as currently proposed by certain governmental officials, legislative leaders and consumer interest groups. We could also be materially affected if proposals to increase the regulation of internet service providers or to further strengthen data privacy laws are enacted or implemented. In addition, federal and state agencies that regulate the support program payments we receive or the fees that we charge for certain of our regulated services can, and from time to time do, reduce the amounts we receive or can charge. Finally, we expect that expanded regulation of 911 emergency services will increase our costs and exposure to fines for noncompliance. As a carrier of last resort for certain of our Mass Market customers, we could be required to provide services under circumstances that are economically disadvantageous or that divert resources from other business priorities. Third-party content stored or transmitted on our networks could result in liability or otherwise damage our reputation. While we disclaim liability for third-party content in most of our service contracts, as a private network provider we potentially could be exposed to legal claims relating to third-party content stored or transmitted on our networks. Such claims could involve, among others, allegations of defamation, invasion of privacy, copyright infringement, or aiding and abetting restricted activities such as online gambling or pornography. Although we believe our liability for these types of claims is limited under current law, suits against other carriers have been successful and we cannot assure you that our defenses will prevail. Such third-party content could also result in adverse publicity and damage our reputation. Moreover, as noted above, pending proposals to change the law could materially heighten our legal exposure and potentially require us to implement changes to manage this exposure. Our pending legal proceedings could have a material adverse impact on us. There are several potentially material proceedings pending against us, including several derivative and class action suits. Results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. As of any given date we could have exposure to losses under proceedings in excess of our accrued liability. For each of these reasons, any of the proceedings described in Note 18Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items, as well as current litigation not described therein or future litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position, operating results, the trading price of our securities and our ability to access the capital markets. We can give you no assurances as to the ultimate impact of these matters on us. We may not be successful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights. We rely on various patents, copyrights, trade names, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other similar intellectual property rights, as well as confidentiality agreements and procedures, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. For a variety of reasons, however, these steps may not fully protect us, including due to inherent limitations on the ability to enforce these rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights, our business, competitive position, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Issues related to the use of artificial intelligence (AI) could give rise to legal or regulatory actions, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. We currently incorporate AI technology in certain of our products and services and in our business operations. Due to the complexity of its design and algorithms, AI presents various risks and challenges, and its use could cause operational disruptions or have other unintended adverse consequences. While we aim to use AI responsibly and attempt to identify and mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. Our use of AI may give rise to risks related to harmful content, inaccurate output, bias, intellectual property infringement or misappropriation, defamation, privacy incidents, and cybersecurity vulnerabilities, among others. The United States, the European Union and other governmental bodies have taken initial steps to regulate AI, which could ultimately increase AIs legal risks or decrease its usefulness. For all these reasons, our use of AI could materially harm our business, operations or reputation. 28 Table of Contents We have been accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of others and will likely face similar accusations in the future. We routinely receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing their intellectual property rights. We are currently responding to several of these notices and claims and expect this industry-wide trend will continue. If these claims succeed, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages, to cease using the applicable technology or to make royalty payments to continue using the applicable technology. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our revenues or profit margins may decline, our operations could be materially impaired or we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Similarly, from time to time, we may need to obtain the right to use certain patents or other intellectual property from third parties to be able to offer new products and services. If we cannot obtain rights to use any required technology from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new products and services may be prohibited, restricted, made more costly or delayed. Failure to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could have a material impact on us. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 21% of our employees were members of various bargaining units represented by labor unions. Although we have agreements with these labor unions, we cannot predict the outcome of our future negotiations of these agreements. We may be unable to reach new agreements, and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services and increase our costs. Even if we succeed in reaching new or replacement agreements, they may impose significant new costs on us that impair our competitive position. Our international operations expose us to various regulatory, currency, tax, legal and other risks. Our international operations are subject to a wide range of U.S. and non-U.S. laws, regulations, treaties, tariffs and other directives governing our operations in international jurisdictions in which we provide services, either directly or indirectly through our contractual arrangements with other carriers. Many of these laws or other directives are complex, change frequently and conflict with the laws in other jurisdictions to which we are bound. There is a risk that these laws or other directives could materially restrict our ability to deliver services in various international jurisdictions or expose us to the risk of potential penalties, license revocations or contract terminations if we violate them. In addition, if the U.S. continues increasing its tariffs, we could incur additional expense we may be unable to recover from our customers. In addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: economic, social and political instability, with the attendant risks of terrorism, kidnapping, extortion, civic unrest, potential seizure or nationalization of assets; currency and exchange controls, repatriation restrictions and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, problems collecting accounts receivable; the difficulty or inability in certain jurisdictions to enforce contract or intellectual property rights; reliance on certain third parties with whom we lack extensive experience; supply chain challenges; and challenges in securing and maintaining the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure. Media reports concerning our legacy infrastructure could expose us to governmental actions, removal costs, litigation, compliance costs, penalties or reputational damage. Media reports issued in mid-2023 alleged that certain lead-sheathed cables that are part of our copper-based network infrastructure pose public health and environmental risks. These allegations have resulted in regulatory inquiries and lawsuits, and could in the future subject us to legislative or regulatory actions, removal costs, compliance costs or penalties. Accordingly, we may incur substantial expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results or condition. We may also experience reputational harm from negative assertions about the public health or environmental impact of our lead-sheathed cables, which could adversely affect our business, even if such allegations ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Such damage to our reputation could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to repair, and could negatively impact our business or the value of our securities. 29 Table of Contents Financial Risks Our significant debt levels expose us to a broad range of risks. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $13.7 billion of outstanding consolidated secured indebtedness, $4.6 billion of outstanding consolidated unsecured indebtedness (excluding (i) finance lease obligations, (ii) unamortized premiums, net and (iii) unamortized debt issuance costs) and approximately $737 million of unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities. Our significant levels of debt and related debt service obligations could adversely affect us in several respects, including: requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures and strategic initiatives; hindering our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to plan for or react to changing market, industry, competitive or economic conditions; making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases (especially with respect to our variable rate debt); placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged companies; adversely impacting other parties perception of Lumen, including but not limited to existing or potential customers, vendors, employees, creditors or investors; making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing or refinancing, including the risk that this could force us to sell assets or take other less desirable actions to raise capital; and increasing the risk that we may not meet the covenants contained in our debt agreements or timely make all required debt payments, either of which could result in the acceleration of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness. The effects of each of these factors could be intensified if we increase our borrowings or experience any downgrade in our credit ratings or those of our affiliates. Subject to certain limitations and restrictions, the current terms of our debt instruments and our subsidiaries debt instruments permit us or them to incur additional indebtedness. We expect to periodically require financing, and we cannot assure you we will be able to obtain such financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We expect to periodically require financing in the future to refinance existing indebtedness and potentially for other purposes. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position, performance, credit ratings, and debt covenants. Our ability to obtain additional financing could also depend on prevailing market conditions, which could be adversely affected by (i) general market conditions, such as disruptions in domestic or overseas sovereign or corporate debt markets, geo-political instabilities, trade restrictions, pandemics, weak economic conditions or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad, and (ii) specific conditions in the communications industry. Instability in the domestic or global financial markets has from time to time resulted in periodic volatility and disruptions in capital markets that have partially or severely limited the ability of leveraged companies like us to obtain debt financing. For these and other reasons, we can give no assurance additional financing for any of these purposes will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 30 Table of Contents If we are unable to make required debt payments or refinance our debt, we would likely have to consider other options, such as selling assets, issuing additional securities, cutting or delaying costs or otherwise reducing our cash requirements, or negotiating with our lenders to restructure our applicable debt. Our current and future debt instruments may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to complete some of these actions on favorable terms, or at all. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you we could implement these steps in a sufficient or timely manner, or at all. Even if successfully implemented, these transactions could be detrimental to our operations, financial performance or future prospects. We have a highly complex debt structure, which could impact the rights of our investors. Lumen Technologies, Inc. and various of its subsidiaries owe substantial sums pursuant to various debt and financing arrangements, certain of which are guaranteed by other principal subsidiaries. Roughly three-quarters of the debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc. is guaranteed by certain of its principal domestic subsidiaries, some of which have pledged substantially all of their assets (including certain of their respective subsidiaries) to secure their guarantees. The remainder of the debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc. is neither guaranteed nor secured. Most of the debt of Level 3 Financing, Inc. is (i) secured by a pledge of substantially all of its assets and (ii) guaranteed on a secured basis by certain of its affiliates. The remainder of the debt of Level 3 Financing, Inc. is not secured by any of its assets, but is guaranteed on an unsecured basis by certain of its affiliates. As of the date of this annual report, substantial amounts of debt are also owed by two direct or indirect subsidiaries of Qwest Communications International Inc. Most of the over 200 subsidiaries of Lumen Technologies, Inc. have neither borrowed money nor guaranteed any of the debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc. or its affiliates. As such, our investors should be aware that (i) determining the priority of the rights of holders of our consolidated debt instruments is a complex matter which is substantially dependent upon the assets and earning power of the entities that issued or guaranteed (if any) the applicable debt and (ii) such debt is structurally subordinated to all liabilities of the non-guarantor subsidiaries of Lumen Technologies, Inc. to the extent of the value of those subsidiaries that are obligors. As disclosed in the periodic reports for our subsidiaries Level 3 Parent, LLC and Qwest Corporation, Lumen Technologies, Inc. also enters into debt arrangements with its subsidiaries from time to time. Any such intercompany transactions with its consolidated subsidiaries are eliminated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP") and, accordingly, are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets of Lumen Technologies, Inc. For instance, at December 31, 2024, Lumen Technologies, Inc. owed approximately $2.7 billion to Level 3 Financing, Inc., (i) $1.2 billion of which was owed under a secured $1.2 billion revolving loan agreement and (ii) $1.5 billion of which was owed under an unsecured $1.825 billion revolving loan agreement. Qwest Corporation is also currently permitted to borrow up to $2.0 billion from a subsidiary of Lumen Technologies, Inc. under a revolving promissory note, but no amounts were outstanding thereunder at December 31, 2024. Lumen Technologies, Inc.s debt arrangements with its subsidiaries may be revised from time to time, including to increase or decrease the amount thereof. Our various debt agreements include restrictions and covenants that could (i) limit our ability to conduct operations or borrow additional funds, (ii) restrict our ability to engage in inter-company transactions, and (iii) lead to the acceleration of our repayment obligations in certain instances. Under our consolidated debt and financing arrangements, the issuer of the debt is subject to various covenants and restrictions, the most restrictive of which pertain to the debt of Lumen Technologies, Inc. and Level 3 Financing, Inc. Lumen Technologies, Inc.s senior secured credit facilities and secured notes contain several significant limitations restricting our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money or issue guarantees; pay dividends or other distributions to shareholders; make loans; create liens on assets; sell assets; transact with its affiliates and engage in mergers, consolidations or other similar transactions. These restrictive covenants could have a material adverse impact on our ability to operate or reconfigure our business, to issue additional priority debt, to pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic transactions, or to otherwise pursue our plans and strategies. The debt and financing arrangements of Level 3 Financing, Inc. contain substantially similar limitations that restrict their operations on a standalone basis as a separate restricted group. Consequently, certain of these covenants may significantly restrict our ability to engage in transactions with Level 3 Parent, LLC, including receiving cash from Level 3 Parent, LLC, or distributing cash from Level 3 Parent, LLC to other of our affiliated entities. Lumen Technologies, Inc.s senior secured credit facilities also contain financial maintenance covenants which are described further in Note 7Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities. 31 Table of Contents The failure of Lumen Technologies, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries to comply with the above-described restrictive or financial covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our debt repayment obligations. Any such acceleration of our debt could have materially adverse consequences, including reducing the possibility of obtaining financing and potentially forcing us to seek bankruptcy protection. Certain of our debt instruments have cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. In 2023, holders of a substantial portion of our funded indebtedness asserted that we had violated certain of our debt covenants. Other creditors could potentially seek to assert similar claims in the future, the risk of which is heightened by the complexity of our debt structure, debt covenants and operations. Our recent debt transactions may not achieve their anticipated benefits. During 2024, we engaged in a series of transactions designed to extend our debt maturities, enhance our access to revolving credit, and reduce our indebtedness. In connection with announcing the closing of these transactions, we indicated that they would provide us with additional time to transform our operations and improve our financial performance. In completing these transactions, we incurred substantial transaction expenses, agreed to pay higher levels of interest and committed to more restrictive debt covenants, which collectively could have important consequences, including the potentially adverse consequences of carrying significant debt or failing to comply with applicable debt covenants, each as specified elsewhere in this Item 1A. For all these reasons and more, we may not realize some or all of the benefits we anticipate receiving from completing our 2024 debt transactions. Our cash flows may not adequately fund all of our cash requirements. Each segment of our business is very capital intensive. We expect to continue to require significant capital to pursue our Quantum Fiber buildout plans, to perform our buildout obligations under certain of our PCF agreements, and to otherwise maintain, upgrade and expand our network infrastructure and product offerings. These capital requirements are driven by several factors, including (i) changes in customers service requirements; (ii) our need to continue to maintain aging or obsolete infrastructure until it can be replaced; (iii) our continuing need to expand and improve our network to remain competitive and meet customer demand; and (iv) our regulatory and contractual commitments. Any failure to make appropriate capital expenditures could adversely impact our financial performance or prospects. We will also continue to need substantial amounts of cash to meet our fixed commitments and other business objectives, including without limitation funding our debt repayments, interest expense, operating costs, maintenance expenses, tax obligations, periodic pension contributions and other benefits payments. Although our recent PCF agreements have significantly increased our near-term liquidity, we cannot assure you our future cash flows from operating activities will be sufficient to fund our capital investments, debt obligations or any other long-term cash requirements. As a holding company, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and their distribution of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or other payments. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate cash flows in amounts sufficient to fund our obligations, including the payment of our long-term debt. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us, except to the extent they have guaranteed such payments. Similarly, subject to limited exceptions for tax or cash management purposes, our non-guarantor subsidiaries have no obligation to make any funds available to us to repay our obligations, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. As discussed in greater detail elsewhere herein, restrictions imposed by credit instruments or other agreements applicable to Level 3 Parent, LLC or its subsidiaries and certain of our other subsidiaries limit the amount of funds our subsidiaries are permitted to transfer to us, including the amount of dividends that may be paid to us. Moreover, our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization would be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. In addition, the laws under which our subsidiaries were organized typically restrict the amount of dividends they may pay. The ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds could be further restricted under applicable state or federal tax laws, regulatory orders or regulations. For all these reasons, you should not assume our subsidiaries will be able in the future to generate and distribute to us cash in amounts sufficient to fund our cash requirements. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to fully utilize our NOLs. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $570 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs"), which remain subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations ("Section 382"). These limitations could restrict our ability to use these NOLs in the amounts we project. In an effort to safeguard our NOLs, we have maintained an NOL rights agreement which is scheduled to lapse in late 2026. At December 31, 2024, we also had state NOLs which we believe are subject to legal and practical limitations on our ability to realize their full benefit. We cannot assure you we will be able to utilize these NOLs as projected or at all. Increases in costs for pension and healthcare benefits for our active and retired employees may have a material impact on us. As of December 31, 2024, our company-sponsored benefit plans that cover our current and former U.S.-based employees had approximately 21,000 active employee participants, approximately 52,000 active and retired employees and surviving spouses eligible for post-retirement healthcare benefits, approximately 21,000 pension retirees and approximately 7,000 former employees with vested pension benefits. As of such date, our domestic pension plans and our other domestic post-retirement benefit plans were substantially underfunded from an accounting standpoint. We also maintain benefit plans for a much smaller base of our non-U.S. employees. The cost to fund the pension and healthcare benefit plans for our active and retired employees has a significant impact on our profitability. Our costs of maintaining our pension and healthcare plans, and the future funding requirements for these plans, are affected by several factors, including investment returns on funds held by our applicable plan trusts; changes in prevailing interest rates and discount rates or other factors used to calculate the funding status of our plans; increases in healthcare costs generally or claims submitted under our healthcare plans specifically; the longevity and payment elections of our plan participants; changes in plan benefits; and the impact of the continuing implementation and modification of current federal healthcare and pension funding laws and regulations promulgated thereunder. Increased costs under these plans could reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments to our pension plans. See Note 11Employee Benefits for additional information regarding the funded status of our pension plans and our other post-retirement benefit plans. If we are required to record additional intangible asset impairments, we will be required to record a significant charge to earnings and reduce our stockholders' equity. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 20% of our total consolidated assets reflected on the consolidated balance sheet included in this annual report consisted of goodwill, customer relationships and other intangible assets. From time to time, including most recently in the fourth and second quarter of 2023 and in the fourth quarter of 2022, we have recorded large non-cash charges to earnings in connection with reductions of the value of our intangible assets. If our intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record additional significant, non-cash charges to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. High inflation could continue to adversely impact us. Although inflation has recently been declining, during the past several years our operations were impacted by the highest domestic inflation rates in decades. If inflation rates remain elevated or increase, our operations will likely continue to be impacted. Potential impacts of high inflation include (i) lower revenue if inflationary pressures cause our customers to defer or decrease their orders, (ii) lower profit margins, (iii) higher interest costs to the extent inflation places upwards pressure on prevailing interest rates and (iv) as noted above, potential difficulties retaining personnel if we do not match the salary increase expectations of our workforce. Lapses in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect us. We maintain (i) disclosure