Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. Acquisitions Acquisition of Savvis On July 15, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Savvis, a provider of cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation and network services in domestic and international markets. We believe this acquisition enhanced our ability to provide information technology services to our existing business customers and strengthened our ability to attract new business customers. Each share of Savvis common stock outstanding immediately prior to the acquisition converted into the right to receive $30 per share in cash and 0.2479 shares of CenturyLink common stock. The aggregate consideration of $2.382 billion was based on: cash payments of $1.732 billion; 3 Table of Contents the 14.313 million shares of CenturyLink common stock issued to consummate the acquisition; the closing stock price of CenturyLink common stock at July 14, 2011 of $38.54; and the estimated net value of the pre-combination portion of certain share-based compensation awards assumed by CenturyLink of $98 million, of which $33 million was paid in cash. Upon completing the acquisition, we also paid $547 million to retire certain pre-existing Savvis debt and accrued interest. Acquisition of Qwest On April 1, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Qwest, a provider of data, broadband, video and voice services nationwide and globally. We entered into this acquisition, among other things, to realize certain strategic benefits, including enhanced financial and operational scale, market diversification and leveraged combined networks. As of the acquisition date, Qwest served approximately 9.0 million access lines and approximately 3.0 million broadband subscribers across 14 states. Each share of Qwest common stock outstanding immediately prior to the acquisition converted into the right to receive 0.1664 shares of CenturyLink common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. The aggregate consideration of $12.273 billion was based on: the 294 million shares of CenturyLink common stock issued to consummate the acquisition; the closing stock price of CenturyLink common stock at March 31, 2011 of $41.55; the estimated net value of the pre-combination portion of share-based compensation awards assumed by CenturyLink of $52 million (excluding the value of restricted stock included in the number of issued shares specified above); and cash paid in lieu of the issuance of fractional shares of $5 million. We assumed approximately $12.7 billion of long-term debt in connection with our acquisition of Qwest. Effect of Recent Acquisitions Our acquisitions in 2011 resulted in several important changes to our operations, including: providing services to an expanded number of densely-populated markets, which tend to afford consumers access to a greater range of competitive communications products than less dense markets; reducing the percentage of our total revenue derived from governmental support programs, which typically focus on disbursing payments to companies operating in less densely-populated areas; expanding and reconfiguring our operating regions to incorporate the Qwest service areas in order to provide day-to-day decision making at the regional level as opposed to the more centralized structures formerly used by Qwest; and offering certain services, such as cloud hosting, that CenturyLink did not historically provide. Other Acquisitions On July 1, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Embarq Corporation ("Embarq"), a provider of data, Internet, video and voice services for stock valued at approximately $6.1 billion on the acquisition date. As of the acquisition date, Embarq served approximately 5.4 million access lines and approximately 1.5 million broadband subscribers across 18 states. We assumed approximately $4.9 billion of long-term debt in connection with our acquisition of Embarq. 4 Table of Contents We regularly evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional assets in exchange for cash, securities or other properties, and at any given time may be engaged in discussions or negotiations regarding additional acquisitions. We generally do not announce our acquisitions or dispositions until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement. References to Acquired Businesses In the discussion that follows, we refer to the incremental business activities that we now operate as a result of the Savvis acquisition and the Qwest acquisition as "Legacy Savvis" and "Legacy Qwest", respectively. References to "Legacy CenturyLink", when used in comparison of our consolidated results for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, mean the business we operated prior to the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions. Financial and Operational Highlights The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations. Our operating results include the operations of Savvis for periods after July 15, 2011 and Qwest for periods after April 1, 2011. Operating revenues $ 18,376 15,351 7,042 Operating expenses 15,663 13,326 4,982 Operating income $ 2,713 2,025 2,060 Net income $ 777 573 948 Balance sheet data: Total assets $ 54,020 56,044 Total long-term debt (1) 20,605 21,836 Total stockholders' equity 19,289 20,827 (1) Total long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of this report. The following table summarizes certain of our operational metrics: Operational metrics: Total broadband subscribers (1) 5,848 5,652 2,349 Total access lines (2) 13,748 14,584 6,489 (1) Broadband subscribers are customers that purchase high-speed Internet connection service through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables. 5 Table of Contents (2) Access lines are telephone lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. During the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to include residential, business and wholesale subscribers instead of only residential and small business subscribers. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change. Substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States and substantially all of our revenues are from customers located in the United States. We estimate that less than 2% of our consolidated revenue is derived from providing telecommunications and data hosting services outside the United States. Operations Segments Since acquiring Qwest and Savvis in 2011, we have reorganized our operations and associated reporting segments on three occasions, including in 2012 and early 2013. During the second quarter of 2012, in order to more effectively deploy the strategic assets acquired from Qwest and Savvis and to better serve our business and government customers, we internally restructured our business into the following operating segments: Regional markets. Consists primarily of providing strategic and legacy products and services to residential consumers, state and local governments, small to medium-sized businesses and enterprise customers that in each case are located mainly within one of our six regions. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line, broadband, MPLS, hosting, video services and wireless services. Our legacy services offered to these customers consist primarily of local and long-distance service; Wholesale markets. Consists primarily of providing strategic and legacy products and services to other domestic and international communications providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers are mainly private line (including special access) and MPLS. Our legacy services offered to these customers include UNEs which allow our wholesale customers the use of our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers, long-distance and switched access services; Enterprise marketsnetwork. Consists primarily of providing strategic and legacy network communications products and services to national and international enterprise and government customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line, broadband, MPLS and hosting services. Our legacy services offered to these customers consist primarily of local and long-distance services; and Enterprise marketsdata hosting. Consists primarily of providing colocation, managed hosting and cloud hosting services to national and international enterprise and government customers. 6 Table of Contents The following table shows the composition of our revenues by segment for 2012 and 2011 under our segment categorization as of December 31, 2012. Percentage of revenue: Regional markets 54% 57% (3% ) Wholesale markets 20% 22% (2% ) Enterprise marketsnetwork 14% 13% 1% Enterprise marketsdata hosting 6% 3% 3% Other operating revenues 6% 5% 1% Total 100% 100% For additional information on our segment data, including our 2010 segment results and information on certain centrally-managed assets and expenses not reflected in our segment reports, see Note 13Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. On January 3, 2013, we announced a reorganization of our operating segments. Beginning with the first quarter of 2013, we will report the following four segments in our consolidated financial statements: consumer, business, wholesale and data hosting. For additional information on this change, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. Products and Services Our products and services include a variety of voice, broadband, data, information technology ("IT"), video and other communications services. In 2011, we expanded our IT services to include cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation and network services. We offer our customers the ability to bundle together several products and services. For example, we offer integrated and unlimited local and long-distance services. Our customers can also bundle two or more services such as broadband, video (including DIRECTV through our strategic partnership), voice and Verizon Wireless (through our strategic partnership) services. We believe our customers value the convenience and price discounts associated with receiving multiple services through a single company. Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our network serves approximately 13.7 million access lines and forms a portion of the public switched telephone network, or PSTN. Described below are our key products and services. Strategic Services Our customers use our strategic services to access the Internet, connect to private networks and transmit data. We also provide value-added services and integrated solutions that make communications more secure, reliable and efficient for our customers. We focus our marketing and sales efforts on these services: Private line. Private line (including special access) is a direct circuit or channel specifically dedicated for the purpose of directly connecting two or more sites. Private line offers a 7 Table of Contents high-speed, secure solution for frequent transmission of large amounts of data between sites. We also provide private line transmission services to wireless service providers that use our fiber-optic cables connected to their towers, commonly referred to as fiber to the tower or wireless backhaul services, to support their next generation wireless networks; Broadband. Our broadband services allow customers to connect to the Internet through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables at high speeds. Substantially all of our broadband subscribers are located within our local service area; MPLS. Multi-Protocol Label Switching is standards-approved data networking technology, compatible with existing asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, and frame relay networks we provide to support real-time voice and video. This technology allows network operators flexibility to divert and route traffic around link failures, congestion and bottlenecks; Managed Hosting. Managed hosting includes provision of centralized IT infrastructure and a variety of managed services including cloud and traditional computing, application management, back-up, storage, and advanced services including planning, design, implementation and support services; Colocation. Colocation services enable our customers to install their own IT equipment in our state-of-the art facilities through our centralized IT infrastructure; Ethernet. Ethernet services include point-to-point and multi-point configurations that facilitate data transmissions across metropolitan areas and wide area networks; Video. Our video services include our facilities-based video, marketed as CenturyLink Prism, which is a premium entertainment service that allows our customers to watch hundreds of television or cable channels and record up to four shows on one home digital video recorder. We also offer satellite digital television under an arrangement with DIRECTV that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name; VoIP. Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, is a real-time, two-way voice communication service (similar to our traditional voice services) that originates over a broadband connection and often terminates on the PSTN; and Wireless services. Our wireless services are offered under an agency arrangement with Verizon Wireless that allows us to market, sell and bill for its services under its brand name, primarily to customers who buy these services as part of a bundle with one or more of our other products and services. This arrangement allows us to sell the full complement of Verizon Wireless services. Our current five-year arrangement with Verizon Wireless runs through 2015 and is terminable by either party thereafter. Legacy Services Our legacy services represent our traditional voice, data and network services, which include the following: Local. We offer local calling services for our regional markets customers within our local service area, generally for a fixed monthly charge. These services include a number of enhanced calling features and other services, such as call forwarding, caller identification, conference calling, voicemail, selective call ringing and call waiting, for which we generally charge an additional monthly fee. We also generate revenues from non-recurring services, such as inside wire installation, maintenance services, service activation and reactivation. For our wholesale customers, local calling services include primarily resale and UNEs, which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers. Local calling services also 8 Table of Contents include network transport, billing services and access to our network by other telecommunications providers and wireless carriers. Local calling services provided to our wholesale customers allow other telecommunications companies the ability to originate or terminate telecommunications services on our network; Long-distance. We offer our residential and business customers domestic and international long-distance services and toll-free services. Our international long-distance services include voice calls that either terminate or originate with our customers in the United States; ISDN. We offer integrated services digital network ("ISDN") services, which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications; WAN. We offer wide area network ("WAN") services, which allow a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations; and Switched access services. We provide various forms of switched access services to wireline and wireless service providers for the use of our facilities to originate and terminate their interstate and intrastate voice transmissions. Data Integration Data integration involves our sale of telecommunications equipment to customers for use on their premises and related professional services. These services include network management, installation and maintenance of telecommunication and data equipment and the building of proprietary fiber-optic networks for our governmental and other business customers. Other Revenues We also generate other operating revenues from Universal Service Fund ("USF") revenues and surcharges and the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. The majority of our real estate properties are located in our local service area. Additional Information During 2008, we paid an aggregate of approximately $149 million for 69 licenses in the FCC's auction of 700 megahertz wireless spectrum. During the second quarter of 2012, we committed to a plan to sell our Advanced Wireless Services A Block and 700 MHz wireless spectrum in the A, B, and C Blocks, which in the aggregate had a basis of $154 million. We sold $58 million of our wireless spectrum assets during the fourth quarter of 2012, and we sold another $43 million of our wireless spectrum assets in January 2013. In the aggregate, these transactions resulted in a gain of $32 million. We expect to reach agreements with various other purchasers for the remaining spectrum, and the consummation of which will be subject to regulatory approval. From time to time, we also make investments in other communications companies. For further information on regulatory, technological and competitive changes that could impact our revenues, see "Regulation" and "Competition" under this Item 1 below and "Risk Factors" under Item 1A below. For more information on the financial contributions of our various services, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. Patents, Trade Names, Trademarks and Copyrights Either directly or through our subsidiaries, we have rights in various patents, trade names, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property necessary to conduct our business, such as our 9 Table of Contents CenturyLink and Prism brand names. Our services often use the intellectual property of others, including licensed software. We also occasionally license our intellectual property to others. Sales and Marketing We maintain local offices in most of the larger population centers within our local service area. These offices provide sales and customer support services in the community. We also rely on our call center personnel to promote sales of services that meet the needs of our customers. Our strategy is to enhance our communications services by offering a comprehensive bundle of services and deploying new technologies to further enhance customer loyalty. We conduct most of our operations under the brand name "CenturyLink." Our satellite television service is offered on a co-branded basis under the "DIRECTV" name. Our switched digital television service offering is branded under the name "Prism." The wireless service that we offer under our agency agreement with Verizon Wireless is marketed under the "Verizon Wireless" brand name. Currently, certain data hosting, IT and other services furnished through our Savvis operations are marketed under the "SAVVIS" or "savvisdirect" brand names. Our approach to our regional markets' residential customers emphasizes customer-oriented sales, marketing and service with a local presence. We market our products and services primarily through direct sales representatives, inbound call centers, local retail stores, telemarketing and third parties. We support our distribution with direct mail, bill inserts, newspaper advertising, website promotions, public relations activities and sponsorship of community events and sports venues. Our approach to our regional markets' business and government customers includes a commitment to deliver communications products and services that meet existing and future business needs through bundles of services and integrated service offerings. Our focus is to be a comprehensive communications solution for our small office, mid-sized and select enterprise business and government customers. Our approach to our wholesale markets' customers includes a commitment to deliver communications solutions that meet existing and future needs of national network telecommunications providers through bandwidth growth and quality of services. Our approach to our enterprise marketnetwork customers includes a commitment to deliver network products and services that meet existing and future customer needs by offering private line, broadband, MPLS and hosting services and well as local and long-distance services. Our enterprise marketdata hosting operations utilize a solution-based selling approach. By working directly with potential and existing clients, we are able to understand our clients' IT infrastructure and long-term goals. We also market through indirect channels, including collaborations with existing clients and technology providers, telecommunications companies and system integrators. Network Architecture Most of our products and services are provided using our telecommunications network, which consists of voice and data switches, copper cables, fiber-optic cables and other equipment. Our local exchange carrier networks also include central offices and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches and operating with licensed software. Our fiber-optic cable is the primary transport technology between our central offices and interconnection points with other incumbent carriers. As of December 31, 2012, we maintained over 1.03 million miles of copper plant and approximately 157 thousand miles of fiber-optic plant in our local exchange networks. We also maintain separate networks in connection with providing fiber transport and CLEC services. Most of our long distance service is provided through reselling arrangements with other long distance carriers, with the balance being provided directly through CenturyLink's own switches and 10 Table of Contents network equipment. All of our satellite television and wireless voice service is provided by other carriers under agency agreements. We continue to enhance and expand our network by deploying broadband-enabled technologies to provide additional capacity to our customers. Rapid and significant changes in technology are expected to continue in the telecommunications industry. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in customer demands and technology. In particular, we anticipate that continued increases in broadband usage by our customers will require us to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity or to implement network management practices to alleviate network capacity shortages, either of which could adversely impact our results of operation and financial condition. For additional information, see "Risk Factors", generally, in Item 1A of this report, and, in particular, "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our BusinessIncreases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers." For more information, see Item 2 of this report. Regulation We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications in our local service area. These agencies issue rules to protect consumers and promote competition; they set the rates that telecommunication companies charge each other for exchanging traffic; and they have established USF to support the provision of services to high-cost areas. In most states, local voice service, switched and special access services and interconnection services are subject to price regulation, although the extent of regulation varies by type of service and geographic region. In addition, we are required to maintain licenses with the FCC and with the utility commissions of most of the states in our local service area. Laws and regulations in many states restrict the manner in which a licensed entity can interact with affiliates, transfer assets, issue debt and engage in other business activities, and many mergers and acquisitions require approval by the FCC and some state commissions. Historically, incumbent local exchange carriers ("ILECs") operated as regulated monopolies having the exclusive right and responsibility to provide local telephone services in their franchised service territories. As we discuss in greater detail below, passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, coupled with state legislative and regulatory initiatives and technological change, fundamentally altered the telephone industry by generally reducing the regulation of ILECs and creating a substantial increase in the number of competitors. We are considered an ILEC. The following description discusses some of the major industry regulations that affect our traditional telephone operations, but numerous other regulations not discussed below could also impact us. Some legislation and regulations are currently the subject of judicial, legislative and administrative proceedings which could substantially change the manner in which the telecommunications industry operates and the amount of revenues we receive for our services. Neither the outcome of these proceedings, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted at this time. For additional information, see Item 1A of this annual report below. State Regulation In recent years, most states have substantially reduced their regulation of ILECs. Nonetheless, state regulatory commissions generally continue to regulate local service rates, intrastate access charges, state universal service funds and in some cases service quality, as they continue to grant and revoke certifications authorizing companies to provide communications services. State commissions traditionally regulated pricing through "rate of return" regulation that focused on authorized levels of earnings by ILECs. Several states continue to regulate us in this manner. In most of our states, we are generally regulated under various forms of alternative regulation that typically limit our ability to increase rates for basic local voice service, but relieve us from the requirement to meet certain earnings tests. In a 11 Table of Contents few states, we have recently gained pricing freedom for the majority of retail services except for the most basic of services, such as stand-alone basic residential voice service. In most of the states in which we operate, we have gained pricing flexibility for certain enhanced calling services, such as caller identification and for bundled services that also include local voice service. State commissions periodically conduct proceedings to review the rates that we charge other telecommunications providers for using our network or for reselling our service pursuant to the Telecommunications Act of 1996. We are currently responding to carrier complaints, legislation or generic investigations regarding our intrastate switched access rates in several of our states. In particular, certain long-distance providers have disputed existing intercarrier compensation rates payable to us and other ILECs with respect to VoIP traffic or refused to pay access charges, based on the contention that tariffed switched access charges should not apply to VoIP traffic. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted an order comprehensively reforming federal intercarrier compensation and universal service policies and rules, as discussed further below under the heading "Federal Regulation." Among other things, this order preempted state regulatory commissions' jurisdiction over all terminating access charges, including intrastate access charges that have historically been subject to exclusive state jurisdiction. Furthermore, the FCC decreed that, on a prospective basis, intercarrier compensation rates for VoIP traffic will be established at interstate access rates in the event intrastate switched access rates exceed interstate rates. The FCC order requires all terminating access rates including intrastate, interstate and reciprocal compensation rates to be reduced and unified over time. Excluding the rate implications contemplated on a prospective basis by the recent FCC order, we will continue to vigorously defend and seek to collect our intrastate switched access revenue subject to outstanding disputes. These historical disputes are primarily over access charge compensation for VoIP traffic terminating on the public switched telephone network. The outcomes of these disputes cannot be determined at this time. If we are required to reduce our intrastate switched access rates as a result of any of these disputes or state initiatives, we will seek to recover displaced switched access revenues from state universal service funds or other services. However, the amount of such recovery, particularly from residential customers, is not assured. Under state law, our telephone operating subsidiaries are typically governed by laws and regulations that (i) regulate the purchase and sale of ILECs, (ii) prescribe certain reporting requirements, (iii) require ILECs to provide service under publicly-filed tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices of regulated services, (iv) limit ILECs' ability to borrow and pledge their assets, (v) regulate transactions between ILECs and their affiliates, and (vi) impose various other service standards. Unlike many of our competitors, as an ILEC we generally face "carrier of last resort" obligations which include an ongoing requirement to provide service to all prospective and current customers in our service area who request service and are willing to pay rates prescribed in our tariffs. In competitively-bid situations, such as newly-constructed housing developments or multi-tenant dwellings, this may constitute a competitive disadvantage to us if competitors can choose to focus on low-risk profitable customers and withhold service from high-risk unprofitable customers. In addition, strict adherence to carrier of last resort requirements may force us to construct facilities with a low likelihood of positive economic return. We operate in states where traditional cost recovery mechanisms, including rate structures, are under evaluation or have been modified. There can be no assurance that these states will continue to provide for cost recovery at current levels. Federal Regulation We are required to comply with the Communications Act of 1934, which requires us to offer services at just and reasonable rates and on non-discriminatory terms, as well as the 12 Table of Contents Telecommunications Act of 1996, which amended the Communications Act of 1934 primarily to promote competition. The FCC regulates interstate services provided by us, including the special access charges we bill for wholesale network transmission and the interstate access charges that we bill to long-distance companies and other communications companies in connection with the origination and termination of interstate voice and data transmissions. Additionally, the FCC regulates a number of aspects of our business related to privacy, homeland security and network infrastructure, including access to and use of local telephone numbers. The FCC has responsibility for maintaining and administering the federal USF, which provides substantial support for maintaining networks in high-cost areas, as well as supporting service to low-income households, schools and libraries, and rural health care providers. Like other communications network operators, ILECs must obtain FCC approval to use certain radio frequencies, or to transfer control of any such licenses. The FCC retains the right to revoke these licenses if a carrier materially violates relevant legal requirements. We, like other large and mid-sized ILECs, operate under price-cap regulation of interstate access rates. Under price-cap regulation, limits imposed on a company's interstate rates are adjusted periodically to reflect inflation, productivity improvement and changes in certain non-controllable costs. In recent years, our operations and those of other telecommunications carriers have been further impacted by legislation and regulation imposing additional obligations on us, particularly with regards to providing broadband service, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts and enhancing privacy. These laws include the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, and laws governing local telephone number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. These laws and regulations may cause us to incur additional costs and could impact our ability to compete effectively. In December 2012, the FCC initiated a special access proceeding and has requested data, information and documents to allow it to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of competition in the special access market. The ultimate impact of this proceeding on the Company is currently unknown. However, if the FCC were to adopt significant changes in regulations affecting special access services, this could adversely impact our operations or financial results. Universal Service Fund and Other Related Matters For decades, the FCC has regularly considered various intercarrier compensation reforms, generally with a goal to create a uniform mechanism to be used by the entire telecommunications industry for payments between carriers originating, terminating, or carrying telecommunications traffic. In connection therewith, the FCC solicited public comments on a variety of topics related to access charges and intercarrier compensation. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "Recovery Act") includes certain broadband initiatives that are intended to accelerate broadband deployment across the United States. The Recovery Act approved $7.2 billion in funding for broadband stimulus projects across the United States to be administered by two governmental agencies. The programs provide grants and loans to applicants for construction of certain broadband infrastructure, provision of certain broadband services, and support of certain broadband adoption initiatives. This program has attracted a wide range of applicants including states, municipalities, start-up companies and consortiums. The participation of other parties in these programs has increased competition in selected areas, which may increase our marketing costs and decrease our revenues in those areas. This trend may intensify if program participation increases. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order"), intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster 13 Table of Contents nationwide broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as terminating intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. We anticipate that these changes will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues in our wholesale segment, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams. On December 29, 2011, the CAF order went into effect. At the same time, numerous parties filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC seeking numerous revisions to the order. In January 2012, we joined more than two dozen parties in challenging certain aspects of the order by filing a separate appeal that is expected to be heard by the United States Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals in late 2013. Future judicial challenges to the CAF order are possible, which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. Moreover, rulemaking designed to implement the order is not complete, and several FCC proceedings relating to the order remain pending. For these and other reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings at this time. On January 31, 2012, the FCC adopted an order modernizing the program that provides assistance to qualifying low-income individuals for local voice service. These changes also affect state-specific programs that provide assistance to qualifying individuals. The impact of these changes on us and our low-income customers cannot be quantified at this time, but we may face increased administrative costs, additional audit requirements and potential customer disconnections as a result of this FCC order and its implementation. We received approximately $543 million, $510 million and $431 million of revenue from federal and state universal service programs for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Such amounts represented approximately 3.0%, 3.3% and 6.1% of our 2012, 2011 and 2010 total operating revenues, respectively. Other Regulations Certain of our telecommunications and data hosting services conducted in foreign countries are or may become subject to various foreign laws, including those regulating the protection and retention of data. Competition General We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market and we expect intense competition to continue. We compete with cable and satellite companies, wireless providers, national telecommunications providers (such as AT&T, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.) and a variety of other competitors. Technological advances, regulatory and legislative changes have increased opportunities for alternative communications service providers, which in turn have increased competitive pressures on our business. These alternate providers often face fewer regulations and have lower cost structures than we do. In addition, the telecommunications industry has experienced substantial consolidation over the past decade and some of our competitors in one or more lines of our business are generally larger, have stronger brand names, have more financial and business resources and have broader service offerings than we currently do. Over the past decade, fundamental technological, regulatory and legislative changes have significantly impacted the communications industry, and we expect these changes will continue. Primarily as a result of regulatory and technological changes, competition has been introduced and 14 Table of Contents encouraged in each sector of the communications industry in recent years. As a result, we increasingly face competition from other communication service providers, as further described below. Wireless telephone services increasingly constitute a significant source of competition with our ILEC services. As a result, some customers have chosen to completely forego use of traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless service for voice services. We anticipate this trend will continue, particularly if wireless service providers continue to expand their coverage areas, reduce their rates, improve the quality of their services and offer enhanced new services. Substantially all of our access line customers are currently capable of receiving wireless services from at least one competitive service provider. Technological and regulatory developments in wireless services, personal communications services, digital microwave, satellite, coaxial cable, fiber-optics, local multipoint distribution services, WiFi, and other wired and wireless technologies are expected to further permit the development of alternatives to traditional landline services. Moreover, the growing prevalence of electronic mail, text messaging, social networking and similar digital communications continues to reduce the demand for traditional landline voice services. The Telecommunications Act of 1996, which obligates ILECs to permit competitors to interconnect their facilities to the ILEC's network and to take various other steps that are designed to promote competition, imposes several duties on an ILEC if it receives a specific request from another entity which seeks to connect with or provide services using the ILEC's network. In addition, each ILEC is obligated to (i) negotiate interconnection agreements in good faith, (ii) provide nondiscriminatory "unbundled" access to all aspects of the ILEC's network, (iii) offer resale of its telecommunications services at wholesale rates and (iv) permit competitors, on terms and conditions (including rates) that are just, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, to colocate their physical plant on the ILEC's property, or provide virtual colocation if physical colocation is not practicable. Current FCC rules require ILECs to lease a network element only in those situations where competing carriers genuinely would be impaired without access to such network elements, and where the unbundling would not interfere with the development of facilities-based competition. As a result of these regulatory, consumer and technological developments, ILECs also face competition from competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, particularly in densely populated areas. CLECs provide competing services through reselling the ILECs' local services, through use of the ILECs' unbundled network elements or through their own facilities. Technological developments have led to the development of new services that compete with traditional ILEC services. Technological improvements have enabled cable television companies to provide traditional circuit-switched telephone service over their cable networks, and several national cable companies have aggressively pursued this opportunity. Similarly, companies providing VoIP services provide voice communication services over the Internet which compete with our traditional telephone service and our own VoIP services. Similar to us, many cable, technology or other communications companies that previously offered a limited range of services are now offering diversified bundles of services, either through their own networks, reselling arrangements or joint ventures. As such, a growing number of companies are competing to serve the communications needs of the same customer base. Such activities will continue to place downward pressure on the demand for our access lines and the pricing of our services. As both consumers and business customers increasingly demand high-speed connections for entertainment, communications and productivity, we expect the demands on our network will continue to increase over the next several years. To succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can deliver services that meet these increasing bandwidth requirements. We plan to continue to invest in our network to be able to meet this future demand. In addition, network reliability and security are increasingly important competitive factors in the enterprise business. 15 Table of Contents In addition to facing direct competition from those providers described above, ILECs increasingly face competition from alternate communication systems constructed by long distance carriers, large customers or alternative access vendors. These systems are capable of originating or terminating calls without use of the ILECs' networks or switching services. Other potential sources of competition include non-carrier systems that are capable of bypassing ILECs' local networks, either partially or completely, through various means, including the provision of special access or independent switching services and the concentration of telecommunications traffic on a few of the ILECs' access lines. We anticipate that all these trends will continue and lead to decreased use of our networks. Additional information about competitive pressures is located (i) under the heading "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of this report and (ii) in the discussion immediately below, which contains more specific information on how these trends in competition have impacted our segments. Regional Markets Strategic Services With respect to our strategic services, competition is based on price, bandwidth, service, promotions and bundled offerings. Wireless carriers' fourth generation, or 4G, services are allowing them to more directly compete with our strategic services. In reselling DIRECTV video services, we compete primarily with cable and other satellite companies as well as other sales agents and resellers. We also compete with interexchange carriers and other broadband service providers. Our Prism residential video service faces substantial competition from a variety of competitors, including well-established cable companies and companies that deliver content over the Internet and on mobile devices at little or no cost to their customers. Many of our competitors for these strategic services are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as we are and therefore they are able to avoid significant regulatory costs and obligations Our strategy is based on pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs and on maintaining our focus on increasing the subscribers of our broadband services. In order to remain competitive, we believe continually increasing connection speeds is important. As a result, we continue to invest in our network, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services. While traditional ATM-based broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber-based broadband services. We also continue to expand our product offerings including facilities-based video services and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which a significant portion of consumers already have broadband services. Legacy Services Although our status as an ILEC continues to provide us advantages in providing local services in our local service area, as noted above we increasingly face significant competition as an increasing number of consumers are willing to substitute cable, wireless and electronic communications for traditional voice telecommunications services. This has led to an increase in the number and type of competitors within our industry and a decrease in our market share. As a result of this product substitution, we face greater competition in providing local and long distance services from wireless providers, resellers and sales agents (including ourselves), social media hosts and broadband service providers, including cable companies. We also continue to compete with traditional telecommunications providers, such as national carriers, smaller regional providers, CLECs and independent telephone companies. Our strategy to reduce access line loss is based primarily on our pricing, packaging of services and features, quality of service and meeting customer care needs. While bundle price discounts have 16 Table of Contents resulted in lower average revenues for our individual services, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer limited time promotions on our broadband service for prospective customers who want our broadband service in their bundle, which further aids our ability to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our services. Data Integration In providing data integration to our customers, we compete primarily with large integrators, equipment providers and national telecommunication providers. Competition is based on package offerings and as such we focus on providing these customers individualized and customizable packages. Our strategy is to provide our data integration through packages that include other strategic and legacy services. As such, in providing data integration we often face many of the same competitive pressures as we face in providing strategic and legacy services, as discussed above. Wholesale Markets Strategic Services In providing private line (including special access) services to our wholesale markets customers, we compete with large cable companies, as well as other regional and national carriers, other fiber providers and CLECs. Demand for our private line services continues to increase, despite our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our wholesale markets segment, we believe the growth in fiber-based special access provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, ultimately offset the decline in copper-based special access provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain. Legacy Services The provision of our legacy services to other communications providers is highly competitive, and has been and will continue to be adversely affected by product substitution, technological migration, industry consolidation and rate reductions. We face significant competition for access services from CLECs, cable companies, resellers and wireless service providers as well as some of our own wholesale markets customers, which are deploying their own networks to provide customers with local services. By doing so, these competitors reduce traffic on our network. In addition, our long-distance revenues continue to decline as a result of customer migration to more technologically advanced services, price compression, and declining demand for traditional voice services. Enterprise MarketsNetwork Strategic Services Our competitors for integrated data, Internet, voice services and other IT services range from mid-sized businesses to large enterprises. Due to the size and capacity of some of these companies, they may be able to offer more inexpensive solutions to our customers. To compete, we focus on providing complex, secure and performance-driven services to our business customers through our global infrastructure. Our network services continue to see pricing pressures on virtual private network and bandwidth services offset by increases in network services that support our colocation and managed hosting service offerings. Our keys to growth include targeting the right clients, offering targeted business solutions to solve specific client needs and delivering compelling and comprehensive technical capabilities. 17 Table of Contents Legacy Services We face intense competition with respect to our legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services and into strategic services. In addition, our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price competition. Data Integration We expect data integration to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal government customers. In addition, changes to our compensation programs, which focus on higher margin strategic services, could negatively impact data integration revenues. Enterprise MarketsData Hosting Strategic Services Our competitors for hosting, colocation and other IT services include telecommunications companies, hardware manufacturers and system integrators that support the in-house IT operations for a business or offer outsourcing solutions. Due to the size and capacity of some of these companies, they may be able to offer more inexpensive solutions to our customers. To compete, we focus on providing complex, secure and performance-driven services to our business customers through our global infrastructure on the same terms outlined under the heading "BusinessEnterprise MarketsNetworkStrategic Services" in Item I of this report. For our colocation services, we continue to see pricing pressures with respect to these services as low-cost wholesale colocation providers continue to enter our market, and we expect this trend to continue. Our services can be purchased individually or as part of a total outsourcing arrangement. Environmental Compliance Several decades ago one of our subsidiaries acquired entities that may have owned or operated seven former "manufactured gas" plant sites that may require environmental remediation. From time to time we may incur other environmental compliance and remediation expenses, mainly resulting from the ownership of other prior industrial sites or the operation of vehicle fleets or power supplies for our communications equipment. Although we cannot assess with certainty the impact of any future compliance and remediation obligations or provide you with any assurances regarding the ultimate impact thereof, we do not believe that future environmental compliance and remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Seasonality Overall, our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality. From time to time weather related problems have resulted in increased costs to repair our network and respond to service calls in some of our markets. The amount and timing of these costs are subject to the weather patterns of any given year, but have generally been highest during the third quarter and have been related to damage from severe storms, including hurricanes, tropical storms and tornadoes in our markets along the lower Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coastlines. Employees At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 47,000 employees, of which approximately 18,000 are members of either the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("IBEW") or the Communications Workers of America ("CWA"). Approximately 12,000 of these employees are subject 18 Table of Contents to collective bargaining agreements that expired October 6, 2012. We are currently negotiating the terms of new agreements. In the meantime, the predecessor agreements have been extended, and the unions have agreed to provide at least twenty-four hour advance notice before terminating those predecessor agreements. See the discussion of risks relating to our labor relations in "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of this report. Over the past several years, we have reduced our workforce primarily due to (i) integration efforts from our recent acquisitions; (ii) increased competitive pressures; and (iii) the loss of access lines. Website Access and Important Investor Information Our website is www.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We have adopted written codes of conduct that serve as the code of ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with applicable laws and rules promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. In the event that we make any changes (other than by a technical, administrative or non-substantive amendment) to, or provide any waivers from, the provisions of our code of conduct applicable to our directors or executive officers, we intend to disclose these events on our website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These codes of conduct, as well as copies of our guidelines on significant governance issues and the charters of our audit committee, compensation committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and risk evaluation committee, are also available in the "Corporate Governance" section of our website at www.centurylink.com/Pages/AboutUs/Governance/ or in print to any shareholder who requests them by sending a written request to our Corporate Secretary at CenturyLink, Inc., 100 CenturyLink Drive, Monroe, Louisiana, 71203. Investors may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. For information on the operation of the Public Reference Room, you are encouraged to call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. For all of our electronic filings, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. In connection with filing this annual report, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer made the certifications regarding our financial disclosures required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and its related regulations. In addition, during 2012, our chief executive officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was unaware of any violations by us of the New York Stock Exchange's corporate governance listing standards. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Related Matters This report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities law include, and future oral or written statements or press releases by us and our management may include, forward-looking statements about our financial condition, operating results and business. These statements include, among others: statements concerning the benefits that we expect will result from our business activities and certain transactions we have completed, such as increased revenue and decreased capital or operating expenditures; 19 Table of Contents statements about our anticipated future operating and financial performance, financial position and liquidity, tax position, contingent liabilities, growth opportunities and growth rates, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, business prospects, regulatory and competitive outlook, investment and expenditure plans, investment results, financing alternatives and sources and pricing plans; and other similar statements of our expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated developments and other matters that are not historical facts, many of which are highlighted by words such as "may," "would," "could," "should," "plan," "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "likely," "seeks," "hopes," or variations or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date such statements are made concerning future developments and events, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or implied by us in those statements if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry, including the outcome or regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment and net neutrality; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions; our ability to successfully integrate recently-acquired operations into our incumbent operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from our recent acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; our ability to use net operating loss carryovers of Qwest in projected amounts; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demands for high-speed broadband service; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us; 20 Table of Contents our ability to continue to pay common share dividends in accordance with past practices, which may be affected by changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced in this report or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business and our recent acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A of this report, which is subject to updating and supplementing by our subsequent SEC reports. These risk factors should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. Anticipated events may not occur and our actual results or performance may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Additional risks that we currently deem immaterial or that are not presently known to us could also cause our actual results to differ materially from our expected results. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a statement of our intentions as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this report and other documents filed by us under the federal securities laws concerning our views and expectations regarding the communications industry are based on estimates made by us using data from industry sources, and on assumptions made by us based on our management's knowledge and experience in the markets in which we operate and the communications industry generally. You should be aware that we have not independently verified data from industry or other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. Our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed below in Item 1A of this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. 21 Table of Contents Please be aware that additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Risks Affecting Our Business Increasing competition, including product substitution, continues to cause access line losses, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. In addition to competition from larger national telecommunications providers, we are facing increasing competition from a variety of other sources, including cable and satellite companies, wireless providers, broadband companies, resellers, sales agents and facilities-based providers using their own networks as well as those leasing parts of our network. In addition, regulatory developments over the past several years have generally increased competitive pressures on our business. Due to some of these and other factors, we continue to lose access lines. Some of our current and potential competitors (i) offer a more comprehensive range of communications products and services, (ii) have market presence, engineering and technical capabilities, and financial and other resources greater than ours, (iii) own larger or more diverse networks with greater transmission capacity or other advantages, (iv) conduct operations or raise capital at a lower cost than us, (v) are subject to less regulation, (vi) offer greater online content or (vii) have substantially stronger brand names. Consequently, these competitors may be better equipped to provide more attractive offerings, to charge lower prices for their products and services, to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and market share, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our services or shifting to less profitable services, (iii) reduced traffic on our networks, (iv) our need to expend substantial time or money on new capital improvement projects, (v) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (vi) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new products or services. We are continually taking steps to respond to these competitive pressures, but these efforts may not be successful. Our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected if these initiatives are unsuccessful or insufficient and if we otherwise are unable to sufficiently stem or offset our continuing access line losses and our revenue declines significantly without corresponding cost reductions. If this occurred, our ability to service debt and pay other obligations would also be adversely affected. Rapid changes in technology and markets could require substantial expenditure of financial and other resources in excess of contemplated levels, and any inability to respond to those changes could reduce our market share and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The communications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, many of which are reducing demand for our traditional voice services or are enabling our current customers to reduce or bypass use of our networks. Similarly, the information technology services industry is experiencing rapid changes in technologies. Further technological change could require us to expend capital or other resources in excess of currently contemplated levels, or to forgo the development or provision of products or services that others can provide more efficiently. If we are not able to develop new products and services to keep pace with technological advances, or if those products and services are not widely accepted by customers, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and our market share could decline. Any inability to effectively respond to changes in technology and markets could 22 Table of Contents also adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. For additional information on the risks of increased expenditures, see "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOur business requires us to incur substantial capital and operating expenses, which reduces our available free cash flow." Our legacy services continue to experience declining revenues, and our efforts to offset these declines may not be successful. The telephone industry has experienced a decline in access lines and network access revenues, which, coupled with the other changes resulting from competitive, technological and regulatory developments, continue to place downward pressure on the revenues we generate from our legacy services. We have taken a variety of steps to counter these declines, including: an increased focus on selling a broader range of higher-growth strategic services, which are described in detail in Item 1 and 7 of this report; an increased focus on serving a broader range of business, governmental and wholesale customers; greater use of service bundles; and acquisitions to increase our scale and strengthen our product offerings, including new products and services provided by our Savvis operations. However, some of these strategic services generate lower profit margins than our traditional services, and some can be expected to experience slowing growth as increasing numbers of our existing or potential customers subscribe to these newer products. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from our new offerings will offset revenue losses associated from reduced sales of our legacy products. Similarly, we cannot assure you that our new service offerings will be as successful as anticipated, or that we will be able to continue to grow through acquisitions. In addition, our reliance on third parties to provide certain of these strategic services could constrain our flexibility, as described further below. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. Over 38% of our employees are members of various bargaining units represented by the Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Approximately 12,000, or 26%, of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expired October 6, 2012. We are currently negotiating the terms of new agreements. In the meantime, the predecessor agreements have been extended, and the applicable unions have agreed to provide us with at least twenty-four hour advance notice before terminating those predecessor agreements. We may be unable to reach new agreements, and union employees may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services and result in increased cost to us. In addition, new labor agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations in the future. To the extent they contain benefit provisions, these agreements may also limit our flexibility to change benefits in response to industry or competitive changes. In particular, the post-employment benefits provided under these agreements could cause us to incur costs not faced by many of our competitors, which could ultimately hinder our competitive position. 23 Table of Contents Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively adjust to changes in our business, and will further suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. The above-described changes in our industry have placed a higher premium on marketing, technological, engineering and provisioning skills. Our recent acquisitions also significantly changed the composition of our markets and product mix. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to retrain our staff to acquire or strengthen skills necessary to address these changes, and, where necessary, to attract and retain new personnel that possess these skills. Unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the unstable economy and credit market, could negatively affect our business. Worldwide economic growth has been sluggish since 2008, and many experts believe that a confluence of factors in the United States, Europe, Asia and developing countries may result in a prolonged period of economic downturn, slow growth or economic uncertainty. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of these general economic conditions, they could adversely affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. These conditions impact, in particular, our ability to sell discretionary products or services to business customers that are under pressure to reduce costs or to governmental customers that have suffered recent budget cuts. Any one or more of these circumstances could cause our revenues to continue declining. Also, our customers may encounter financial hardships or may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could negatively impact their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, as discussed further below, unstable economic and credit markets may preclude us from refinancing maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to raise capital. We could be harmed by security breaches, damages or other significant disruptions or failures of our networks, IT infrastructure or related systems, or of those we operate for certain of our customers. To be successful, we will need to continue providing our customers with a high-capacity, reliable and secure network. We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach or significant disruption of our IT infrastructure and related systems (including our billing systems). As a communications and IT company, we face an added risk that a security breach or other significant disruption of our public networks or IT infrastructure and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our business and governmental customers could lead to material interruptions or curtailments of service. Moreover, due to the nature of our customers and services, we face a heightened risk that a security breach or disruption could result in unauthorized access to our customers' proprietary or classified information on our public networks or internal systems or the systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and systems and maintain contingency plans in the event of security breaches or other system disruptions. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that our security efforts and measures will prevent unauthorized access to our systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses, malware, or other forms of cyber attacks or similar events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud, malice or sabotage on the part of employees, third parties or other nations, or could result from accidental technological failure. Similar to other large telecommunications companies, we have been subject to a variety of security breaches and cyber attacks, although to date none of these have resulted in a material adverse effect on our 24 Table of Contents operating results or financial condition. We cannot assure you, however, that future security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging, especially in light of the growing frequency and sophistication of cyber attacks and intrusions. We may be unable to anticipate all potential types of attacks or intrusions or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and any resulting damages could be material. Additional risks to our network and infrastructure include: power losses or physical damage, whether caused by fire, adverse weather conditions, terrorism or otherwise; capacity limitations; software and hardware defects or malfunctions; programming, processing and other human error; and other disruptions that are beyond our control. Network disruptions, security breaches and other significant failures of the above-described systems could: disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations or those of certain of our customers; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our customers' end-users, including trade secrets, which others could use for competitive, disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; require significant management attention or financial resources to remedy the damages that result or to change our systems, including expenses to repair systems, add new personnel or develop additional protective systems; subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, fines, penalties, termination or other remedies, particularly with respect to service standards set by state regulatory commissions; or result in a loss of business, damage our reputation among our customers and the public generally, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to litigation. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, increased acquisition integration costs, service or billing interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. Any or all of the foregoing developments could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Increases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers. Video streaming services and peer-to-peer file sharing applications use significantly more bandwidth than traditional Internet activity such as web browsing and email. As utilization rates and availability of these services continue to grow, our high-speed Internet customers may use much more bandwidth than in the past. If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity in order to avoid service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower 25 Table of Contents transmission speeds for our customers. Alternatively, we could choose to implement network management practices to reduce the network capacity available to bandwidth-intensive activities during certain times in market areas experiencing congestion, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and attract customers in affected markets. While we believe demand for these services may drive high-speed Internet customers to pay for faster broadband speeds, we may not be able to recover the costs of the necessary network investments. This could result in an adverse impact to our operating margins, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to defend ourselves against claims that we infringe upon others' intellectual property rights, or we may need to seek third-party licenses to expand our product offerings. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may require us to expend significant time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business. Similarly, from time to time, we may need to obtain the right to use certain patents or other intellectual property from third parties to be able to offer new products and services. If we cannot license or otherwise obtain rights to use any required technology from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new products and services may be restricted, made more costly or delayed. Our reseller and sales agency arrangements expose us to a number of risks, one or more of which may adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on reseller and sales agency arrangements with other companies to provide some of the services that we sell to our customers, including video services and wireless products and services. If we fail to extend or renegotiate these arrangements as they expire from time to time or if these other companies fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or our customers, we may have difficulty finding alternative arrangements and our customers may experience disruptions to their services. In addition, as a reseller or sales agent, we do not control the availability, retail price, design, function, quality, reliability, customer service or branding of these products and services, nor do we directly control all of the marketing and promotion of these products and services. To the extent that these other companies make decisions that negatively impact our ability to market and sell their products and services, our business plans and goals and our reputation could be negatively impacted. If these reseller and sales agency arrangements are unsuccessful due to one or more of these risks, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Consolidation among other participants in the telecommunications industry may allow our competitors to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The telecommunications industry has experienced substantial consolidation over the last couple of decades, and some of our competitors have combined with other telecommunications providers, resulting in larger competitors that have greater financial and business resources and broader service offerings. Further consolidation could increase competitive pressures, and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. 26 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings and reduce our stockholders' equity. Under generally accepted accounting principles, intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. If our intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a significant, non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate. Decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future dividend distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of our Board of Directors, which reserves the right to change or terminate our dividend practices at any time and for any reason. Based on current circumstances, we plan to continue our current dividend practices. However, you should be aware that these practices are reviewed periodically and are subject to change for reasons that may include any of the following factors: we may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, stock purchase plans, cash flows or financial position; the effects of regulatory reform, including any changes to intercarrier compensation, Universal Service Fund or special access rules; our desire to maintain or improve the credit ratings on our debt; the amount of dividends that we may distribute to our shareholders is subject to restrictions under Louisiana law and is limited by restricted payment and leverage covenants in our credit facilities and, potentially, the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur; and the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may distribute to us is subject to restrictions imposed by state law, restrictions that have been or may be imposed by state regulators in connection with obtaining necessary approvals for our acquisitions, and restrictions imposed by the terms of credit facilities applicable to certain subsidiaries and, potentially, the terms of any future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur. Our Board of Directors is free to change or suspend our dividend practices at any time. Our common shareholders should be aware that they have no contractual or other legal right to dividends. Our current dividend practices could limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities, repurchase stock or retire debt. The current practice of our Board of Directors to continue to pay common share dividends in accordance with past practices reflects an intention to distribute to our shareholders a substantial portion of our cash flow. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to apply to other transactions that could be beneficial to our shareholders or debtholders, including stock buybacks, debt prepayments or capital expenditures that strengthen our business. In addition, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business through acquisitions or increased capital spending will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available to us at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. 27 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of key suppliers, vendors, landlords and other third parties to operate our business, as well as a limited number of financial institutions to fund our revolving credit requirements. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. Our local exchange carrier networks consist of central office and remote sites, all with advanced digital switches. If any of these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering or servicing these network components on a timely basis, our operations could suffer significantly. To the extent that proprietary technology of a supplier is an integral component of our network, we may have limited flexibility to purchase key network components from alternative suppliers. Similarly, our data center operations are materially reliant on leasing significant amounts of space from landlords and substantial amounts of power from utility companies, and being able to renew these arrangements from time to time on favorable terms. In addition, we rely on a limited number of software vendors to support our business management systems. In the event it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement supplies, services, space or utilities on economically attractive terms, on a timely basis, or at all, which could increase costs or cause disruptions in our services. We rely on eighteen financial institutions to provide us with access to revolving credit under our credit facility. If one or more of these lenders default on their funding commitments, our access to revolving credit could be adversely affected. Portions of our property, plant and equipment are located on property owned by third parties. Over the past few years, certain utilities, cooperatives and municipalities in certain of the states in which we operate have requested significant rate increases for attaching our plant to their facilities. To the extent that these entities are successful in increasing the amount we pay for these attachments, our future operating costs will increase. In addition, we rely on rights-of-way, colocation agreements and other authorizations granted by governmental bodies and other third parties to locate our cable, conduit and other network equipment on their respective properties. If any of these authorizations terminate or lapse, our operations could be adversely affected. We depend on key members of our senior management team. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of a limited number of senior officers. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense and we may have difficulty retaining our current senior officers or attracting new ones in the event of terminations or resignations. For a discussion of similar retention concerns relating to our recent mergers, please see the risks described below under the heading "Risk FactorsRisks Relating to our Recent Acquisitions." As a holding company, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and their distribution of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or other payments. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us or, subject to limited exceptions for tax-sharing or cash management purposes, to make any funds available to us to repay our obligations, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. All of our subsidiaries are subject to state law restrictions that limit the amount of dividends they can pay to us. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries may be restricted under loan agreements or regulatory orders from transferring funds to us, including certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that may be 28 Table of Contents paid to us. Moreover, our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report, for further discussion on these matters. Risks Relating to our Recent Acquisitions We expect to incur substantial expenses related to the integration of Qwest and Savvis. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in connection with the integration of Qwest's and Savvis' business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures with our own. There are a large number of systems that need to be integrated, including billing, management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll and benefits, fixed asset, lease administration and regulatory compliance. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and integration expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our integration expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. We may be unable to integrate successfully into Legacy CenturyLink our recently-acquired operations and realize the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisitions. Our recent acquisitions involved the combination of companies which previously operated as independent public companies. We have devoted, and will continue to devote, significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Legacy CenturyLink, Qwest and Savvis. We may encounter difficulties in the integration process, including the following: the inability to successfully combine our businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the acquisitions, either due to technological challenges, personnel shortages, strikes or otherwise, any of which would result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame anticipated or at all; lost sales as a result of customers deciding not to do business with the combined company; the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel from multiple companies, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high-quality products and services under a unified culture; the additional complexities of combining companies with different histories, regulatory restrictions, sales forces, marketing strategies, product markets and customer bases; the failure to retain key employees, some of whom could be critical to integrating or expanding the companies; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or regulatory conditions associated with the acquisitions; and performance shortfalls at one or all of the companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by integrating the companies' operations. For all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our products, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the 29 Table of Contents anticipated benefits of our recent acquisitions, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. The Qwest and Embarq acquisitions changed the profile of our local exchange markets to include more large urban areas, with which we have limited operating experience. Prior to our acquisition of Embarq Corporation ("Embarq"), we provided local exchange telephone services to predominantly rural areas and small to mid-size cities. Embarq's local exchange markets included Las Vegas, Nevada and suburbs of Orlando and several other large U.S. cities, and we have operated these more dense markets only since mid-2009. Qwest's markets included Phoenix, Arizona, Denver, Colorado, MinneapolisSt. Paul, Minnesota, Seattle, Washington, Salt Lake City, Utah, and Portland, Oregon. Compared to our legacy markets, these urban markets, on average, are substantially denser and experienced greater access line losses prior to being acquired by us. While we believe our strategies and operating models developed serving rural and smaller markets can successfully be applied to larger markets, we cannot assure you of this. Our business, financial performance and prospects could be harmed if our current strategies or operating models cannot be successfully applied to larger markets, or are required to be changed or abandoned to adjust to differences in these larger markets. We cannot assure you whether, when or in what amounts we will be able to use Qwest's net operating losses. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $4.7 billion of federal net operating losses, or NOLs, which relate primarily to pre-acquisition losses of Qwest. These NOLs can be used to offset our future federal and certain taxable income. The acquisition of Qwest caused an "ownership change" under federal tax laws relating to the use of NOLs. As a result, these laws could limit our ability to use their NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes. Further limitations could apply if we are deemed to undergo an ownership change in the future. Despite this, we expect to use substantially all of these NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes as an offset to our federal future taxable income by 2015, although the timing of that use will depend upon the consolidated group's future earnings and future tax circumstances. Our acquisitions have increased our exposure to the risks of fluctuations in energy costs, power outages and availability of electrical resources. Through the acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis, we have added a significant number of data center facilities, which are susceptible to regional costs and supply of power and electrical power outages. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. However, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely even with these protections in place. In addition, our energy costs can fluctuate significantly or increase for a variety of reasons, including changes in legislation and regulation. Several pending proposals designed to reduce greenhouse emissions could substantially increase our energy costs. As energy costs increase, we may not always be able to pass on the increased costs of energy to our clients, which could harm our business. Power and cooling requirements at our data centers are also increasing as a result of the increasing power demands of today's servers. Since we rely on third parties to provide our data centers with power sufficient to meet our clients' power needs, our data centers could have a limited or inadequate amount of electrical resources. Our clients' demand for power may also exceed the power capacity in older data centers, which may limit our ability to fully utilize these data centers. This could adversely affect our relationships with our clients and hinder our ability to run our data centers, which could harm our business. 30 Table of Contents Our inability to renew data center leases, or renew on favorable terms, could have a negative impact on our financial results. A significant majority of the data centers we acquired in the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions are leased and have lease terms that expire between 2013 and 2031. The majority of these leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the lease at our option for periods generally ranging from five to ten years. Many of these renewal options, however, provide that rent for the renewal period will be equal to the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal. If the fair market rental rates are significantly higher than our current rental rates, we may be unable to offset these costs by charging more for our services, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Also, it is possible that a landlord may insist on other financially unfavorable renewal terms or, where no further option to renew exists, elect not to renew altogether. Our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis have increased our exposure to the risks of operating internationally. Prior to acquiring Qwest on April 1, 2011, substantially all of our operations were historically conducted within the continental United States. Although Qwest has historically conducted some operations overseas, the acquisition of Savvis on July 15, 2011, increased the importance of international operations to our future operations, growth and prospects. As a result of our recent acquisitions, our foreign operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various foreign jurisdictions. Many of these foreign laws and regulations relating to communications services are more restrictive than U.S. laws and regulations, particularly those relating to content distributed over the Internet. For example, the European Union has enacted a data retention system that, once implemented by individual member states, will involve requirements to retain certain Internet protocol, or IP, data that could have an impact on our operations in Europe. Moreover, national regulatory frameworks that are consistent with the policies and requirements of the World Trade Organization have only recently been, or are still being, enacted in many countries. Accordingly, many countries are still in the early stages of providing for and adapting to a liberalized telecommunications market. As a result, in these markets we may encounter more protracted and difficult procedures to obtain licenses necessary to provide the full set of products we offer. In addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: tax, licensing, currency, political or other business restrictions or requirements; import and export restrictions; longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, as well as other anti-corruption laws; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; and challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our international operations. 31 Table of Contents Moreover, in order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, it is frequently necessary or required to establish joint ventures, strategic alliances or marketing arrangements with local operators, partners or agents. Reliance on local operators, partners or agents could expose us to the risk of being unable to control the scope or quality of our overseas services or products, or being held liable under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws for actions taken by our strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation or prospects. Any additional future acquisitions by us would subject us to additional business, operating and financial risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure or financial position. From time to time in the future we may pursue other acquisition opportunities. To the extent we acquire a business that is highly leveraged or is otherwise subject to a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular business or assets that we may acquire. In addition, the financing of any future acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure or financial position, as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional securities or the borrowing of additional funds. Except as required by law or applicable securities exchange listing standards, we do not expect to ask our shareholders to vote on any proposed acquisition. Moreover, we generally do not announce our acquisitions until we have entered into a preliminary or definitive agreement. Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters Any adverse outcome of the KPNQwest litigation, or other material litigation of Qwest, Savvis or CenturyLink could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results, on the trading price of our securities and on our ability to access the capital markets. As described in Note 15Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, the KPNQwest matters present material and significant risks to us. In the aggregate, the plaintiffs in the KPNQwest matters seek billions of dollars in damages. We continue to defend against these matters vigorously and are currently unable to provide any estimate as to the timing of their resolution. We can give no assurance as to the impacts on our financial results or financial condition that may ultimately result from these matters. The ultimate outcomes of these matters are still uncertain, and substantial settlements or judgments in these matters could have a significant impact on us. The magnitude of such settlements or judgments resulting from these matters could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to meet our debt obligations, potentially impacting our credit ratings, our ability to access capital markets and our compliance with debt covenants. In addition, the magnitude of any such settlements or judgments may cause us to draw down significantly on our cash balances, which might force us to obtain additional financing or explore other methods to generate cash. Such methods could include issuing additional debt securities or selling assets. There are other material proceedings pending against us, as described in the above-referenced Note 15. Depending on their outcome, any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operating results. We can give you no assurances as to the impact of these matters on our operating results or financial condition. 32 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry and are therefore exposed to restrictions on our manner of doing business and a variety of claims relating to such regulation. General. We are subject to significant regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), which regulates interstate communications, and state utility commissions, which regulate intrastate communications. Generally, we must obtain and maintain certificates of authority from the FCC and regulatory bodies in most states where we offer regulated services, and we are subject to numerous, and often quite detailed, requirements and interpretations under federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that we are always considered to be in compliance with all these requirements at any single point in time. The agencies responsible for the enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations may initiate inquiries or actions based on customer complaints or on their own initiative. Regulation of the telecommunications industry continues to change rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Notwithstanding a recent movement towards alternative regulation, a substantial portion of our local voice services revenue remains subject to FCC and state utility commission pricing regulation, which periodically exposes us to pricing or earnings disputes and could expose us to unanticipated price declines. Interexchange carriers have filed complaints in various forums requesting reductions in our access rates. In addition, several long distance providers are disputing amounts owed to us for carrying VoIP traffic, or traffic they claim to be VoIP traffic, and are refusing to pay such amounts. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations. Risks associated with recent changes in federal regulation. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") intended to reform the existing regulatory regime to recognize ongoing shifts to new technologies, including VoIP, and gradually re-direct universal service funding to foster nationwide broadband coverage. This initial ruling provides for a multi-year transition over the next decade as intercarrier compensation charges are reduced, universal service funding is explicitly targeted to broadband deployment, and subscriber line charges paid by end user customers are gradually increased. We expect these changes will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive in our wholesale markets segment, while creating opportunities for increases in federal USF and retail revenue streams. Several judicial challenges to the CAF order are pending and additional future challenges are possible, any of which could alter or delay the FCC's proposed changes. In addition, based on the outcome of the FCC proceedings, various state commissions may consider changes to their universal service funds or intrastate access rates. Moreover, rulemaking designed to implement the order is not complete, and several FCC proceedings relating to the order remain pending. For these and other reasons, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings at this time. In addition, during the last few years Congress or the FCC has initiated various other changes, including (i) broadband stimulus projects, support funds and similar plans and (ii) new "network neutrality" rules. The FCC is also considering changes in the regulation of special access services. Any of these recent or pending initiatives could adversely affect our operations or financial results. Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance. Regulations continue to create significant compliance costs for us. Challenges to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, such challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers. Our business also may be impacted by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to regulations or laws related to broadband deployment, bolstering homeland security, increasing disaster recovery requirements, minimizing environmental impacts, 33 Table of Contents enhancing privacy, or addressing other issues that impact our business, including the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (which requires communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities, and services are able to facilitate authorized electronic surveillance), and laws governing local number portability and customer proprietary network information requirements. We expect our compliance costs to increase if future laws or regulations continue to increase our obligations to assist other governmental agencies. Risks posed by other regulations. All of our operations are also subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental regulations. We monitor our compliance with federal, state and local regulations governing the management, discharge and disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials. Although we believe that we are in compliance with these regulations, our management, discharge or disposal of hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials might expose us to claims or actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition against us. For over 15 years, Congress and the FCC have taken several steps that have resulted in increased competition among communications service providers. Many of the FCC's regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rulemakings, thus making it difficult to determine the ultimate impact of these changes on us and our competitors. "Net neutrality" legislation or regulation could limit our ability to operate our high-speed data business profitably and to manage our broadband facilities efficiently . In order to continue to provide quality high-speed data service at attractive prices, we believe we need the continued flexibility to respond to changing consumer demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to invest in our networks. The FCC's "net neutrality" regulations could adversely impact our ability to operate our high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades and implement network management practices that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services, and could therefore negatively impact our ability to compete effectively. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. As such, we could be exposed to legal claims relating to content disseminated on our networks. Claims could challenge the accuracy of materials on our network, or could involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy or copyright infringement. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. We are subject to significant regulations that limit our flexibility. As a diversified full service ILEC in most of our key markets, we have traditionally been subject to significant regulation that does not apply to many of our competitors. This regulation imposes substantial compliance costs on us and restricts our ability to change rates, to compete and to respond rapidly to changing industry conditions. As our business becomes increasingly competitive, regulatory disparities between us and our competitors could impede our ability to compete. We are subject to franchising requirements that could impede our expansion opportunities. We may be required to obtain from municipal authorities operating franchises to install or expand facilities. Some of these franchises may require us to pay franchise fees. These franchising requirements 34 Table of Contents generally apply to our fiber transport and CLEC operations, and to our facilities-based video services. These requirements could delay us in expanding our operations or increase the costs of providing these services. We are exposed to risks arising out of recent legislation affecting U.S. public companies. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and related regulations implemented thereunder, are increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. Any failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in us. For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see "Regulation" in Item 1of this report. Risks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources Our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments. We continue to carry significant debt. As of December 31, 2012, our consolidated debt was approximately $20.6 billion. Approximately $2.1 billion of our debt securities come due over the next thirty-six months. While we currently believe that we will have the financial resources to meet or refinance our obligations when they come due, we cannot fully anticipate our future financial condition or the condition of the credit markets or the economy. We may incur unexpected expenses or liabilities, and we may have limited access to financing. Our significant levels of debt can adversely affect us in several other respects, including (i) limiting our ability to access the capital markets, (ii) exposing us to the risk of credit rating downgrades, which would raise our borrowing costs and could further limit our access to capital, (iii) hindering our flexibility to plan for or react to changing market, industry or economic conditions, (iv) limiting the amount of cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases or other uses, (v) making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases, and (vi) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. The effects of each of these factors could be intensified if we borrow more cash. We expect to periodically require financing to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the unstable economy and credit market, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We may also need to obtain additional financing or investigate other methods to generate cash (such as further cost reductions or the sale of assets) under a variety of circumstances, including if revenues and cash provided by operations decline, if economic conditions weaken, if competitive pressures increase, if regulatory requirements change, if we are required to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plans, if we are required to begin to pay other post-retirement benefits significantly earlier than anticipated, if our payments for federal taxes increase faster or in greater amounts than currently anticipated, if we become subject to significant judgments or settlements in one or more of the matters discussed in Note 15Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, if we engage in any acquisitions or if we undertake substantial capital projects or other initiatives that increase our cash requirements. We can give no assurance that this additional financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit ratings could be adversely affected, which could further raise our 35 Table of Contents borrowing costs and further limit our future access to capital and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Certain of our debt instruments have cross payment default or cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to conduct business or access the capital markets and could adversely impact our credit ratings. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of this report for additional information about our credit facility. Our debt agreements and the debt agreements of our subsidiaries allow us to incur significantly more debt, which could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. The terms of our debt instruments and the debt instruments of our subsidiaries permit additional indebtedness. Additional debt may be necessary for many reasons, including those discussed immediately above. Incremental borrowings on terms that impose additional financial risks could exacerbate the other risks described in this report. Our business requires us to incur substantial capital and operating expenses, which reduce our available free cash flow. Our business is capital intensive, and we anticipate that our capital requirements will continue to be significant in the coming years. As discussed further under "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our BusinessIncreases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions, reduced capacity or slower transmission speeds for our customers," increased bandwidth consumption by consumers and businesses have placed increased demands on the transmission capacity of our networks. If we determine that our networks must be expanded to handle these increased demands, we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures, even though there is no assurance that the return on our investment will be satisfactory. In addition, many of our growth initiatives are capital intensive and changes in technology could require further spending. In addition to investing in expanded networks, new products or new technologies, we must from time to time replace some of the equipment that supports our traditional services as that equipment ages, even though the revenue base from those services is not growing. While we believe that our planned level of capital expenditures will meet both our maintenance and core growth requirements, this may not be the case if demands on our network continue to accelerate or other circumstances underlying our expectations change. Increased spending could, among other things, adversely affect our operating margins, cash flows, results of operations and financial position. Similarly, we continue to anticipate incurring substantial operating expenses to support our incumbent services and growth initiatives. Although we have successfully reduced our operating expenses over the past few years, we may be unable to further reduce these costs, even if revenues in some of our lines of business are decreasing. If so, our operating margins will be adversely impacted. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with our qualified pension plans could negatively impact our liquidity. The funded status of our qualified pension plans is the difference between the value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. The accounting unfunded status of our qualified pension plans was $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2012. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in our benefit obligation or a significant decrease in the value of plan assets. These adverse changes could require us to contribute a material amount of cash to our pension plans or could accelerate the timing of required cash payments. For information on the amount of cash we propose to contribute to our plans in the near term, please 36 Table of Contents see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital ResourcesPension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations" in Item 7 of this report. The actual amount of required contributions to our plans in 2014 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, including earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest and discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plans benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Any future material cash contributions could have a negative impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. We plan to access the public debt markets, and we cannot assure you that these markets will remain free of disruptions. We have a significant amount of indebtedness that we intend to refinance over the next several years, principally through the issuance of debt securities of CenturyLink, Qwest Corporation or both. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position, performance, and credit ratings, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by the ongoing disruptions in the European sovereign debt markets, the failure of the United States to reduce its deficit in amounts deemed to be sufficient, possible further downgrades in the credit ratings of the U.S. debt, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad. Instability in the global financial markets has from time to time resulted in periodic volatility in the capital markets. This volatility could limit our access to the credit markets, leading to higher borrowing costs or, in some cases, the inability to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Any such failure to obtain additional financing could jeopardize our ability to repay, refinance or reduce debt obligations. Other Risks If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures could be affected. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in Item 7 of this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered "critical" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We face hurricane and other natural disaster risks, which can disrupt our operations and cause us to incur substantial additional capital and operating costs. A substantial number of our facilities are located in Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas, North Carolina, South Carolina and other coastal states, which subjects them to the risks associated with severe tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes, including downed telephone lines, flooded facilities, power outages, fuel shortages, damaged or destroyed property and equipment, and work interruptions. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance on our plant (excluding our outside plant) and may under certain circumstances be able to seek recovery of some additional costs through increased rates, only a portion of our additional costs directly related to such hurricanes and natural disasters 37 Table of Contents have historically been recoverable. We cannot predict whether we will continue to be able to obtain insurance for hazard-related damages or, if obtainable and carried, whether this insurance will be adequate to cover our losses. In addition, we expect any insurance of this nature to be subject to substantial deductibles and to provide for premium adjustments based on claims. Any future hazard-related costs and work interruptions could adversely affect our operations and our financial condition. Tax audits or changes in tax laws could adversely affect us. Like all large businesses, we are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. We believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results. Dividends received by certain investors may be subject to a new 3.8% Medicare tax on unearned income beginning on January 1, 2013, and certain tax reform plans under consideration by the U.S. Congress could increase the dividend tax rate. Any significant increase in the U.S. tax rate on dividends could reduce demand for our stock, which could potentially depress its trading price. Our agreements and organizational documents and applicable law could limit another party's ability to acquire us. A number of provisions in our agreements and organizational documents and various provisions of applicable law may delay, defer or prevent a future takeover of CenturyLink unless the takeover is approved by our Board of Directors. For additional information, please see our Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A filed with the SEC July 1, 2009. This could deprive our shareholders of any related takeover premium. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our property, plant and equipment consists principally of telephone lines, central office equipment, land and buildings related to our telephone operations. Our gross property, plant and equipment consisted of the following components as of the following dates: Land 2% 2% Fiber, conduit and other outside plant (1) 40% 41% Central office and other network electronics (2) 36% 33% Support assets (3) 19% 21% Construction in progress (4) 3% 3% Gross property, plant and equipment 100% 100% (1) Fiber, conduit and other outside plant consists of fiber and metallic cable, conduit, poles and other supporting structures. (2) Central office and other network electronics consists of circuit and packet switches, routers, transmission electronics and electronics providing service to customers. (3) Support assets consist of buildings, computers and other administrative and support equipment. (4) Construction in progress includes inventory held for construction and property of the aforementioned categories that has not been placed in service as it is still under construction. We own substantially all of our telecommunications equipment required for our business. However, we lease certain facilities, plant, equipment and software under various capital lease arrangements when the leasing arrangements are more favorable to us than purchasing the assets. We also own and lease administrative offices in major metropolitan locations both in the United States and internationally. Substantially all of our network electronics equipment is located in buildings or on land that we own or lease within our local service area. Outside of our local service area, our assets are generally located on real property pursuant to an agreement with the property owner or another person with rights to the property. It is possible that we may lose our rights under one or more of these agreements, due to their termination or their expiration. With the acquisitions of Qwest in April 2011 and Savvis in July 2011, we expanded our property to include data center assets, and the related facilities and communications equipment. The facilities that house Savvis' warehouses, network equipment and data centers are leased. During 2012, we reclassified certain amounts reported in prior periods of inventory held for construction to conform to the current period presentation. This reclassification increased construction in progress at December 31, 2011 by $55 million with an offsetting decrease to fiber, conduit and other outside plant and central office and other network electronics by $8 million and $47 million, respectively. Some of our property, plant and equipment is pledged to secure the long-term debt of subsidiaries. Our net property, plant and equipment was $19.0 billion and $19.4 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Several putative class actions have been filed against us disputing our use of certain rights-of-way as described in "Legal ProceedingsLitigation Matters Relating to Qwest" in Item 3 of this report. If we lose any of these rights-of-way or are unable to renew them, we may find it necessary to move or replace the affected portions of our network. However, we do not expect any material adverse impacts as a result of the loss of any of these rights. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In this section, when we refer to a class action as "putative" it is because a class has been alleged, but not certified in that matter. Until and unless a class has been certified by the court, it has not been established that the named plaintiffs represent the class of plaintiffs they purport to represent. We have established accrued liabilities for the matters described below where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. We are vigorously defending against all of the matters described below. As a matter of course, we are prepared both to litigate the matters to judgment, as well as to evaluate and consider all settlement opportunities. Litigation Matters Relating to CenturyLink and Embarq In December 2009, subsidiaries of CenturyLink filed two lawsuits against subsidiaries of Sprint Nextel to recover terminating access charges for VoIP traffic owed under various interconnection agreements and tariffs which presently approximate $34 million. The lawsuits allege that Sprint Nextel has breached contracts, violated tariffs, and violated the Federal Communications Act by failing to pay these charges. One lawsuit, filed on behalf of all legacy Embarq operating entities, was tried in federal court in Virginia in August 2010 and, in March 2011, a ruling was issued in our favor and against Sprint Nextel. In the first quarter of 2012, Sprint Nextel filed an appeal of this decision. The other lawsuit, filed on behalf of all Legacy CenturyLink operating entities, is pending in federal court in Louisiana. In that case, in early 2011 the Court dismissed certain of CenturyLink's claims, referred other claims to the FCC, and stayed the litigation. In April 2012, Sprint Nextel filed a petition with the FCC, seeking a declaratory ruling that CenturyLink's access charges do not apply to VoIP originated calls. We have not deferred revenue related to these matters as an adverse outcome is not probable based upon current circumstances. In William Douglas Fulghum, et al. v. Embarq Corporation, et al. , filed on December 28, 2007 in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas, a group of retirees filed a putative class action lawsuit challenging the decision to make certain modifications in retiree benefits programs relating to life insurance, medical insurance and prescription drug benefits, generally effective January 1, 2006 and January 1, 2008 (which, at the time of the modifications, was expected to reduce estimated future expenses for the subject benefits by more than $300 million). Defendants include Embarq, certain of its benefit plans, its Employee Benefits Committee and the individual plan administrator of certain of its benefits plans. Additional defendants include Sprint Nextel and certain of its benefit plans. The Court certified a class on certain of plaintiffs' claims, but rejected class certification as to other claims. Embarq and other defendants continue to vigorously contest these claims and charges. On October 14, 2011, the Fulghum lawyers filed a new, related lawsuit, Abbott et al. v. Sprint Nextel et al . CenturyLink/Embarq is not named a defendant in the lawsuit. In Abbott , approximately 1,500 plaintiffs allege breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the changes in retiree benefits that also are at issue in the Fulghum case. The Abbott plaintiffs are all members of the class that was certified in Fulghum on claims for allegedly vested benefits (Counts I and III), and the Abbott claims are similar to the Fulghum breach of fiduciary duty claim (Count II), on which the Fulghum court denied class certification. The Court has stayed proceedings in Abbott indefinitely. On February 14, 2013, the Fulghum court dismissed the majority of the plaintiffs' claims in that case. Embarq and the other defendants will continue to vigorously contest any remaining claims in Fulghum and seek to have the claims in the Abbott case dismissed on similar grounds. We have not accrued a liability for these matters as it is premature (i) to determine whether an accrual is warranted and (ii) if so, to determine a reasonable estimate of probable liability. 40 Table of Contents Litigation Matters Relating to Qwest The terms and conditions of applicable bylaws, certificates or articles of incorporation, agreements or applicable law may obligate Qwest to indemnify its former directors, officers or employees with respect to certain of the matters described below and Qwest has been advancing legal fees and costs to certain former directors, officers or employees in connection with certain matters described below. On September 29, 2010, the trustees in the Dutch bankruptcy proceeding for KPNQwest, N.V. (of which Qwest was a major shareholder) filed a lawsuit in the District Court of Haarlem, the Netherlands, alleging tort and mismanagement claims under Dutch law. Qwest and Koninklijke KPN N.V. ("KPN") are defendants in this lawsuit along with a number of former KPNQwest supervisory board members and a former officer of KPNQwest, some of whom were formerly affiliated with Qwest. Plaintiffs allege, among other things, that defendants' actions were a cause of the bankruptcy of KPNQwest, and they seek damages for the bankruptcy deficit of KPNQwest, which is claimed to be approximately 4.2 billion (or approximately $5.6 billion based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2012), plus statutory interest. Two lawsuits asserting similar claims were previously filed against Qwest and others in federal courts in New Jersey in 2004 and Colorado in 2009; those courts dismissed the lawsuits without prejudice on the grounds that the claims should not be litigated in the United States. On September 13, 2006, Cargill Financial Markets, Plc and Citibank, N.A. filed a lawsuit in the District Court of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, against Qwest, KPN, KPN Telecom B.V., and other former officers, employees or supervisory board members of KPNQwest, some of whom were formerly affiliated with Qwest. The lawsuit alleges that defendants misrepresented KPNQwest's financial and business condition in connection with the origination of a credit facility and wrongfully allowed KPNQwest to borrow funds under that facility. Plaintiffs allege damages of approximately 219 million (or approximately $289 million based on the exchange rate on December 31, 2012). On April 25, 2012, the court issued its judgment denying the claims asserted by Cargill and Citibank in their lawsuit. Cargill and Citibank are appealing that decision. We have not accrued a liability for the above matters. Regarding the 2010 proceeding, we believe it is premature to determine whether an accrual is warranted and, if so, a reasonable estimate of our probable liability. Regarding the 2006 suit, we do not believe that liability is probable. We will continue to defend against both KPNQwest litigation matters vigorously. Several putative class actions relating to the installation of fiber optic cable in certain rights-of-way were filed against Qwest on behalf of landowners on various dates and in courts located in 34 states in which Qwest has such cable (Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and Wisconsin.) For the most part, the complaints challenge our right to install our fiber optic cable in railroad rights-of-way. The complaints allege that the railroads own the right-of-way as an easement that did not include the right to permit us to install our cable in the right-of-way without the Plaintiffs' consent. Most of the currently pending actions purport to be brought on behalf of state-wide classes in the named Plaintiffs' respective states, although one action pending before the Illinois Court of Appeals purports to be brought on behalf of landowners in Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin. In general, the complaints seek damages on theories of trespass and unjust enrichment, as well as punitive damages. After previous attempts to enter into a single nationwide settlement in a single court proved unsuccessful, the parties proceeded to seek court approval of settlements on a state-by-state basis. To date, the parties have received final approval of such settlements in 22 states (Alabama, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Virginia and Wisconsin), have received preliminary approval of the settlements in eight 41 Table of Contents states (California, Kentucky, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Utah), and have not yet received either preliminary or final approval in four states (Arizona, Massachusetts, New Mexico and Texas). We have accrued an amount that we believe is probable for these matters; however, the amount is not material to our consolidated financial statements. Other Matters From time to time, we are involved in other proceedings incidental to our business, including patent infringement allegations, administrative hearings of state public utility commissions relating primarily to rate making, actions relating to employee claims, various tax issues, environmental law issues, grievance hearings before labor regulatory agencies, and miscellaneous third party tort actions. The outcome of these other proceedings is not predictable. However, based on current circumstances we do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these other proceedings, after considering available defenses and insurance coverage, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The information included in Note 15Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 42 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and the Berlin Stock Exchange and is traded under the symbol CTL and CYT, respectively. The following table sets forth the high and low reported sales prices on the NYSE along with the quarterly dividends, for each of the quarters indicated. 2012 First quarter $ 40.54 36.25 .725 Second quarter 39.89 36.91 .725 Third quarter 43.43 38.96 .725 Fourth quarter 40.49 36.52 .725 2011 First quarter $ 46.78 39.45 .725 Second quarter 43.49 38.66 .725 Third quarter 41.32 31.75 .725 Fourth quarter 38.01 31.16 .725 Common stock dividends during 2012 and 2011 were paid each quarter. On February 26, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a common stock dividend of $.54 per share. As described in greater detail in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. At February 15, 2013, there were approximately 168,000 stockholders of record although there were significantly more beneficial holders of our common stock. At February 15, 2013, the closing stock price of our common stock was $33.02. 43 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about shares of our common stock that we withheld from employees to satisfy tax obligations related to the vesting of stock-based awards during the fourth quarter of 2012: Period October 2012 91,527 $ 39.32 N/A N/A November 2012 N/A N/A December 2012 302,915 39.12 N/A N/A Total 394,442 N/Anot applicable 44 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table of selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with and are qualified by reference to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 8 of this report and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report. The table of selected financial data shown below is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. These historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. The results of operations include Savvis for periods after July 15, 2011, Qwest for periods after April 1, 2011 and Embarq for periods after July 1, 2009. Selected financial information from the consolidated statements of operations data is as follows: Operating revenues $ 18,376 15,351 7,042 4,974 2,600 Operating expenses 15,663 13,326 4,982 3,741 1,878 Operating income $ 2,713 2,025 2,060 1,233 721 Income before income tax expense 1,250 948 1,531 813 561 Net income 777 573 948 647 366 Basic earnings per common share 1.25 1.07 3.13 3.23 3.53 Diluted earnings per common share 1.25 1.07 3.13 3.23 3.52 Dividends declared per common share 2.90 2.90 2.90 2.80 2.1675 Weighted average basic common shares outstanding 620,205 532,780 300,619 198,813 102,268 Weighted average diluted common shares outstanding 622,285 534,121 301,297 199,057 102,560 (1) See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations" in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of unusual items affecting the results for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Selected financial information from the consolidated balance sheets is as follows: Net property, plant and equipment $ 19,032 19,444 8,754 9,097 2,896 Goodwill 21,732 21,732 10,261 10,252 4,016 Total assets 54,020 56,044 22,038 22,563 8,254 Total long-term debt (1) 20,605 21,836 7,328 7,754 3,315 Total stockholders' equity 19,289 20,827 9,647 9,467 3,168 (1) Total long-term debt is the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. For total obligations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFuture Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 of this report. 45 Table of Contents Selected financial information from the consolidated statements of cash flows is as follows: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,065 4,201 2,045 1,574 853 Net cash used in investing activities (2,690 ) (3,647 ) (859 ) (679 ) (389 ) Net cash used in financing activities (3,295 ) (577 ) (1,175 ) (976 ) (255 ) Payments for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software (2,919 ) (2,411 ) (864 ) (755 ) (287 ) The following table presents certain selected consolidated operating data as of the following dates: Broadband subscribers (3) 5,848 5,652 2,349 2,186 626 Access lines 13,748 14,584 6,489 7,025 2,025 (1) In connection with our Qwest acquisition on April 1, 2011, we acquired approximately 9.0 million telephone access lines and approximately 3.0 million broadband subscribers. (2) In connection with our Embarq acquisition on July 1, 2009, we acquired approximately 5.4 million telephone access lines and approximately 1.5 million broadband subscribers. (3) Broadband subscribers are customers that purchase high-speed Internet connection service through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables. During the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to include residential, business and wholesale subscribers instead of only residential and small business subscribers. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change. 46 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All references to "Notes" in this Item 7 refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in Item 1 of this report for factors relating to these statements and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overview We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), public access, broadband, data, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, wireless and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to competitive local exchange carriers and security monitoring. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. At December 31, 2012, we operated approximately 13.7 million access lines in 37 states, served approximately 5.8 million broadband subscribers, and operated 54 data centers throughout North America, Europe and Asia. During 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to include residential, business and wholesale subscribers instead of only residential and small business subscribers. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change. For purposes of counting our access lines, we include only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and exclude lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our counting methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. Our methodology for counting access lines may not be comparable to those of other companies. Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of CenturyLink, Inc. ("CenturyLink") and its majority-owned subsidiaries. These subsidiaries include SAVVIS, Inc. ("Savvis") as of July 15, 2011 and Qwest Communications International Inc. ("Qwest") as of April 1, 2011. See Note 2Acquisitions to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Due to the significant size of these acquisitions, direct comparisons of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 to prior periods are less meaningful than usual. We discuss below, under "Results of OperationsSegment Results", certain trends that we believe are significant, even if they are not necessarily material to the combined company. In the discussion that follows, we refer to the incremental business activities that we now operate as a result of the Savvis acquisition and the Qwest acquisition as "Legacy Savvis" and "Legacy Qwest", respectively. References to "Legacy CenturyLink", when used in reference to a comparison of our consolidated results for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, mean the business we operated prior to the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions. Due to the magnitude of our recent acquisitions in relation to Legacy CenturyLink operations, in the combined company variance discussions below we have separately reflected the impacts of both the Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis operations for enhanced visibility, although we actively manage the combined company through our four segments, as discussed further below. We have incurred operating expenses related to our acquisitions of Savvis in July 2011, Qwest in April 2011 and Embarq in July 2009. These expenses are reflected in cost of services and products and 47 Table of Contents selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of operations as summarized below. Cost of services and products: Integration and other expenses associated with acquisitions $ 22 43 37 Severance expenses, accelerated recognition of share-based awards and retention compensation associated with acquisitions 24 12 Total $ 22 67 49 Selling, general and administrative: Expenses incurred to effect acquisitions $ 79 13 Integration and other expenses associated with acquisitions 25 172 64 Severance expenses, accelerated recognition of share-based awards and retention compensation associated with acquisitions 36 149 19 Total $ 61 400 96 This table does not include costs incurred by Qwest or Savvis prior to being acquired by us. Based on current plans and information, we estimate, in relation to our Qwest acquisition, total integration, severance and retention expenses to be between $600 million to $700 million (which includes approximately $464 million of cumulative expenses incurred through December 31, 2012) and our capital expenditures associated with integration activities will approximate $200 million (which includes approximately $63 million of cumulative capital expenditures incurred through December 31, 2012). We anticipate that the amount of our integration costs in future years will vary substantially based on integration activities conducted during those periods and could in certain cases be significantly higher than those incurred by us during the year ended December 31, 2012. For several years prior to 2011, we reported our operations as a single segment. However, in 2011, in connection with our acquisitions of Qwest on April 1, 2011 and Savvis on July 15, 2011, we reorganized our business into the following operating segments: Regional markets. Consisted primarily of providing products and services to residential consumers, small to medium-sized businesses and regional enterprise customers; Business markets. Consisted primarily of providing products and services to enterprise and government customers; Wholesale markets. Consisted primarily of providing products and services to other communications providers; and Savvis operations. Consisted primarily of providing hosting and network services primarily to business customers provided by Legacy Savvis. 48 Table of Contents In the second quarter of 2012, in order to more effectively deploy the strategic assets acquired from Qwest and Savvis and to better serve our business and government customers, we restructured our business into the following operating segments: Regional markets. Consists primarily of providing strategic and legacy products and services to residential consumers, state and local governments, small to medium-sized businesses and enterprise customers that in each case are located mainly within one of our six regions. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line, broadband, MPLS, hosting, video services, and wireless services. Our legacy services offered to these customers consist primarily of local and long-distance service; Wholesale markets. Consists primarily of providing strategic and legacy products and services to other domestic and international communications providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers are mainly private line (including special access) and MPLS. Our legacy services offered to these customers include UNEs which allow our wholesale customers the use of our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers, long-distance and switched access services; Enterprise marketsnetwork. Consists primarily of providing strategic and legacy network communications products and services to national and international enterprise and government customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line, broadband, MPLS and hosting services. Our legacy services offered to these customers consist primarily of local and long-distance services; and Enterprise marketsdata hosting. Consists primarily of providing colocation, managed hosting and cloud hosting services to national and international enterprise and government customers. Due to system limitations, we have determined that it is impracticable to report 2010 segment information using our segment structure described above. As such, only 2011 financial data has been revised under our segment structure described above. We now report financial information separately for each of these segments; however, our segment information does not include capital expenditures, total assets, or certain revenues and expenses that we manage on a centralized basis and are only reviewed by our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") on a consolidated basis. Our segment results are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that our segments would have achieved had they operated as stand-alone entities during the periods presented. For additional information about our segments, see Note 13Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report and "Results of OperationsSegment Results" below. On January 3, 2013, we announced a reorganization of our operating segments. Consequently, beginning with the first quarter of 2013, we will report the following four segments in our consolidated financial statements: consumer, business, wholesale and data hosting. The primary purpose of the reorganization is to strengthen our focus on the enterprise business market while continuing our commitment to our hosting and consumer customers. The reorganization combines business sales and operations functions that resided in the enterprise marketsnetwork segment and the regional markets segment into the new business segment. The remaining customers serviced by the regional markets segment will become the new consumer segment. Our wholesale markets and enterprises marketsdata hosting segments will not be impacted by the organizational realignment. 49 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Our operating results include operations of Savvis for periods after July 15, 2011 and Qwest for periods after April 1, 2011. Operating revenues $ 18,376 15,351 7,042 Operating expenses 15,663 13,326 4,982 Operating income 2,713 2,025 2,060 Other income (expense) (1,463 ) (1,077 ) (529 ) Income tax expense 473 375 583 Net income $ 777 573 948 Basic earnings per common share $ 1.25 1.07 3.13 Diluted earnings per common share $ 1.25 1.07 3.13 Due to our acquisitions of Qwest on April 1, 2011 and Savvis on July 15, 2011, our 2012 operating results reflect a full year of Qwest's and Savvis' results, as compared to our 2011 operating results, which reflect only nine months of Qwest's operating results and five and a half months of Savvis' operating results. The increase in net income in 2012 was primarily due to the 2012 period containing a full year of Qwest's operating results compared to the 2011 period only containing nine months and a significant decrease from 2011 in the amount of acquisition, severance and integration expenses resulting from our recent acquisitions, as presented in the table under the "Overview" section above. The lower levels of net income in 2011 as compared to 2010 were primarily due to increased acquisition, severance and integration expenses attributable to the April 1, 2011 acquisition of Qwest. The post-acquisition operations of Legacy Savvis and Legacy Qwest, which included substantial severance and integration expenses and significant acquisition accounting adjustments to depreciation and amortization expense based on valuation estimates, did not contribute significantly to our consolidated net income in 2011. See Note 2Acquisitions and Note 3Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Within our Legacy CenturyLink business, growth in strategic services revenues (which we describe further below) did not fully offset lower revenues from other services and products, further contributing to decreases in consolidated net income. Diluted earnings per common share in 2012 was higher than 2011 as a result of increased net income for 2012. Diluted earnings per common share in 2011 was substantially lower than the amounts for the corresponding period of 2010 due to decreases in net income, as well as increases in the weighted average number of outstanding common shares. The increase in the weighted average number of outstanding common shares during 2012 and 2011 was primarily attributable to the issuance of approximately 294 million shares in connection with the Qwest acquisition on April 1, 2011 and the issuance of approximately 14.3 million shares in connection with the Savvis acquisition on July 15, 2011. 50 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our broadband subscribers, access lines and number of employees: Operational metrics: Broadband subscribers 5,848 5,652 2,349 Access lines 13,748 14,584 6,489 Employees 47.0 49.2 20.3 During the second quarter of 2012, we updated our methodology for counting broadband subscribers to include residential, business and wholesale subscribers instead of only residential and small business subscribers. We have restated our previously reported amounts to reflect this change. During the last several years, we have experienced revenue declines primarily due to declines in access lines, intrastate access rates and minutes of use. Prior to our acquisition, Qwest had experienced similar declines in its revenues. To mitigate these declines, we remain focused on efforts to, among other things: promote long-term relationships with our customers through bundling of integrated services; provide new services, such as video, cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation and other additional services that may become available in the future due to, among other things, advances in technology or improvements in our infrastructure; provide our broadband and premium services to a higher percentage of our customers; pursue acquisitions of additional assets if available at attractive prices; increase usage of our networks; and market our products and services to new customers. Operating Revenues We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily broadband, private line (including special access which we market to wholesale and business customers who require dedicated equipment to transmit large amounts of data between sites), MPLS (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), hosting (including cloud hosting and managed hosting), colocation, Ethernet, video (including resold satellite and our facilities-based video services), VoIP and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, switched access, public access, ISDN (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), and WAN services (which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration , which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment to customers for use on their premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic networks for our government and business customers; and Other revenues, which consists primarily of USF revenue and surcharges. Unlike the first three revenue categories, other revenues are not included in our segment revenues. 51 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our operating revenues under our current revenue categorization which is presented in a manner that we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business: Strategic services $ 8,361 6,262 307 1,207 585 2,099 Legacy services 8,287 7,672 (633 ) 1,248 615 Data integration 672 537 19 116 135 Other 1,056 880 44 132 176 Total operating revenues $ 18,376 15,351 (263 ) 2,703 585 3,025 During 2012, operating revenues attributable to certain products and services were reclassified from legacy services to strategic services. Due to system limitations, we have determined that is impracticable to restate 2010's operating revenues to conform to our current revenue categorization. For comparability purposes, we have included our operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 under our prior revenue categorization: Strategic services $ 6,254 2,049 150 3,572 483 4,205 Legacy services 7,680 4,288 (483 ) 3,875 3,392 Data integration 537 158 (23 ) 402 379 Other 880 547 (24 ) 357 333 Total operating revenues $ 15,351 7,042 (380 ) 8,206 483 8,309 Our operating revenues increased substantially in both 2012 and 2011 as compared to 2011 and 2010, respectively, due to our acquisitions of Qwest on April 1, 2011 and Savvis on July 15, 2011. Total operating revenues increased $3.025 billion in 2012 as compared to 2011 and increased $8.309 billion in 2011 as compared to 2010. As reflected in the chart above, our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis contributed incremental operating revenues (net of intercompany eliminations) of $2.7 billion and $585 million, respectively, to our 2012 revenues. Legacy CenturyLink operating revenues decreased $263 million, or 1.7%, in 2012 and $380 million, or 5.4%, in 2011 as compared to the prior year period. These decreases were primarily attributable to declines in legacy services revenues, which reflected the continuing loss of access lines in our markets. At December 31, 2012, we had 13.748 million access lines, of which 8.055 million were in Legacy Qwest's markets. Access lines in our Legacy CenturyLink markets declined to 5.693 million at December 31, 2012 from 6.051 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease of 5.93% during 2012, and were 6.489 million at December 31, 2010, a decrease of 6.75% during 2011. We believe the decline in the number of access lines was primarily due to the displacement of traditional wireline telephone services by other competitive products and services. We estimate that our access lines loss will be between 5.4% and 5.9% in 2013. Our legacy services revenues were also negatively impacted in 2012 by the continued reduction in access revenues and continued migration of customers to bundled service offerings at lower effective rates. The decreases in our legacy services revenues were partially offset by higher revenues from strategic services revenues. Ethernet, 52 Table of Contents MPLS, Internet Protocol Television ("IPTV"), VoIP and broadband services accounted for a majority of the growth in strategic services revenues. We are aggressively marketing our strategic services (including our data hosting services) and data integration to offset the continuing declines in our legacy services revenues. We believe our recent acquisitions of Savvis and Qwest will strengthen our ability to achieve this goal. Further analysis of our operating revenues by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Operating Expenses Our current definitions of operating expenses are as follows: Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) are expenses incurred in providing products and services to our customers. These expenses include: employee-related expenses directly attributable to operating and maintaining our network (such as salaries, wages, benefits and professional fees); facilities expenses (which include third-party telecommunications expenses we incur for using other carriers' networks to provide services to our customers); rents and utilities expenses; equipment sales expenses (such as data integration and modem expenses); costs for universal service funds ("USF") (which are federal and state funds that are established to promote the availability of telecommunications services to all consumers at reasonable and affordable rates, among other things, and to which we are often required to contribute); and other expenses directly related to our network and hosting operations. Selling, general and administrative expenses are corporate overhead and other operating expenses. These expenses include: employee-related expenses (such as salaries, wages, internal commissions, benefits and professional fees) directly attributable to selling products or services and employee-related expenses for administrative functions; marketing and advertising; taxes (such as property and other taxes) and fees; external commissions; bad debt expense; and other selling, general and administrative expenses. These expense classifications may not be comparable to those of other companies. During 2012 and 2011, our operating expenses increased substantially in comparison to 2011 and 2010 primarily due to our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis. The following tables summarize our operating expenses: Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 7,639 6,325 (73 ) 1,082 305 1,314 Selling, general and administrative 3,244 2,975 (367 ) 483 153 269 Depreciation and amortization 4,780 4,026 (149 ) 741 162 754 Total operating expenses $ 15,663 13,326 (589 ) 2,306 620 2,337 53 Table of Contents Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 6,325 2,544 (4 ) 3,523 262 3,781 Selling, general and administrative 2,975 1,004 60 1,791 120 1,971 Depreciation and amortization 4,026 1,434 72 2,394 126 2,592 Total operating expenses $ 13,326 4,982 128 7,708 508 8,344 The acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis largely contributed to the increase in total operating expenses of $2.337 billion in 2012. Excluding the effects of Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis expenses, total operating expenses in 2012 decreased $589 million, or 4.4%, due primarily to decreases in employee-related expenses, severance and integration expenses relating to our recent acquisitions and depreciation and amortization expense. The increase in total operating expenses of $8.344 billion in 2011 was largely attributable to the inclusion of $7.7 billion in post-acquisition Legacy Qwest operating expenses (net of intercompany eliminations) in our consolidated operating expenses. In addition, the acquisition of Savvis on July 15, 2011 increased our consolidated operating expenses for 2011 by $508 million. As discussed in the "Overview" section, our operating expenses for 2012, 2011, and 2010 included substantial severance and integration costs related to the Qwest, Savvis and Embarq acquisitions as well as significant acquisition accounting adjustments to depreciation and amortization expense. See Note 2Acquisitions and Note 3Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Excluding the effects of Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis expenses, total operating expenses in 2011 increased $128 million, or 2.6%, due primarily to integration costs associated with the Qwest acquisition and increased costs of providing our facilities-based video services to more customers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Legacy CenturyLink cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) were slightly lower as compared to 2011. During the year, we experienced decreases in severance, salaries and wages and related benefits, which were partially offset by increases in customer premise equipment and maintenance costs, network expense, and contractor costs. Cost of services and products for Legacy CenturyLink operations was relatively unchanged in 2011. For 2011, $55 million of higher costs of services and products associated with providing our facilities-based video service were substantially offset by a $28 million decrease in salaries and benefits and a $20 million decrease in facilities costs associated with the migration of legacy Embarq long-distance traffic to our internal networks. Legacy CenturyLink selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $367 million, or 2.8%, for 2012 as compared to 2011, while selling, general and administrative expenses increased $60 million, or 6.0%, for 2011 as compared to 2010. The decrease in 2012 primarily was due to a decrease in severance and integration expenses relating to our recent acquisitions, as well as a decrease in salaries, wages, and employee benefits due to a reduction in headcount. For all periods presented, our expenses include significant transaction, severance and integration expenses related to the Qwest, Savvis and Embarq acquisitions (see table in "Overview" above). Changes in the timing and amount of Qwest and Savvis integration expenses resulted in a net increase in Legacy CenturyLink's 2011 selling, general and administrative expenses compared to 2010. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $33 million in 2011 in operating taxes, which were primarily due to favorable property tax and transaction tax settlements. In addition, in 2011 we had a decrease of $20 million in compensation expenses, which were primarily due to workforce reductions and lower pension expense. 54 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2012, we changed our rates of capitalized labor as we transitioned certain of Qwest's legacy systems to our historical company systems. This transition resulted in an estimated $40 million to $55 million increase in the amount of labor capitalized as an asset compared to the amount that would have been capitalized if Qwest had continued to use its legacy systems and a corresponding estimated $40 million to $55 million decrease in operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012. The reduction in expenses described above, net of tax, increased net income approximately $25 million to $34 million, or $0.04 to $0.05 per basic and diluted common share, for the year ended December 31, 2012. Excluding the effects of the acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis, depreciation and amortization expense for Legacy CenturyLink decreased $149 million, or 3.7%, due to annual updates of our depreciation rates for capitalized assets and an out-of-period accounting adjustment, partially offset by net growth in capital assets. Depreciation and amortization for Legacy CenturyLink increased $72 million, or 5.0%, in 2011 primarily due to higher levels of property, plant and equipment and an out-of-period accounting adjustment corrected in 2012. Further analysis of our operating expenses by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Other Consolidated Results The following tables summarize our total other income (expense) and income tax expense: Interest expense $ (1,319 ) (1,072 ) 62 169 16 247 Net loss on early retirement of debt (179 ) (8 ) 179 (8 ) 171 Other income (expense) 35 3 32 (1 ) 1 32 Total other income (expense) $ (1,463 ) (1,077 ) 273 160 17 386 Income tax expense $ 473 375 nm nm nm 98 Interest expense $ (1,072 ) (544 ) 34 486 8 528 Net loss on early retirement of debt (8 ) 8 8 Other income (expense) 3 15 17 (2 ) (3 ) 12 Total other income (expense) $ (1,077 ) (529 ) 51 492 5 548 Income tax expense $ 375 583 nm nm nm (208 ) nmAttributing changes in income tax expense to the acquisitions of Savvis and Qwest is considered not meaningful. 55 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased by $247 million compared to 2011. This increase is primarily due to the 2012 period containing a full year of Qwest interest expense compared to the 2011 period containing only nine months. Interest expense increased $528 million in 2011 primarily due to higher debt balances associated principally with debt assumed in the Qwest acquisition and incurred to finance the Savvis acquisition. See Note 4Long-term Debt and Credit Facilities to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for additional information about those transactions. Interest expense for Legacy CenturyLink increased $62 million, or 5.8%, in 2012 compared to 2011 and increased $34 million, or 6.3%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in both years is substantially due to interest on our $2 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued in June 2011 to finance the Savvis acquisition. The 2012 increase is due to those notes being outstanding for a full year versus a partial year in 2011. The 2011 increase was due to those notes being outstanding for a partial year versus not at all in 2010. Net Loss on Early Retirement of Debt In the fourth quarter of 2012, QCII redeemed certain of its outstanding debt securities, which resulted in a gain of $15 million. In the second quarter of 2012, our subsidiaries Embarq and QC completed premium-priced cash tender offers for the purchase of certain of their respective outstanding debt securities, resulting in an aggregate loss of $190 million. Also in the second quarter of 2012, our subsidiaries Embarq and QCII redeemed certain of their respective outstanding debt securities which resulted in a net loss of $9 million. During 2012, QCII and QC redeemed certain of their outstanding debt securities, which resulted in a gain of $5 million. In the fourth quarter and second quarter of 2011, QC redeemed certain of its outstanding debt securities which resulted in a total net loss of $8 million. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) reflects certain items not directly related to our core operations, including our share of income from our 49% interest in a cellular partnership, interest income, gains and losses from non-operating asset dispositions and impairments and foreign currency gains and losses. Other income for Legacy CenturyLink was greater for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 due to gains on the sales of our auction rate securities and the recognition in 2011 of $16 million in transaction expenses incurred in connection with terminating an unused bridge loan financing commitment related to the Savvis acquisition. See Note 2Acquisitions to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Other income for Legacy CenturyLink decreased $17 million in 2011, as compared to 2010 primarily due to the $16 million in transaction expenses discussed above. Income Tax Expense Our income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011increased $98 million and decreased $208 million, respectively, from the amounts for the comparable prior year. Our increase in 2012 was primarily due to a $302 million, or 32%, increase in income before income tax expense as compared to 2011. Our decrease in 2011 was primarily due to a decrease in income before income tax expense, which was attributable to a decline in operating income and increased interest expense directly related to the acquisition of Qwest. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our effective income tax rate was 37.8%, 39.6% and 38.1%, respectively. The 2012 effective tax rate reflects the $16 million reversal of a valuation allowance related to the auction rate securities we sold in 2012, 56 Table of Contents a $12 million benefit related to state NOLs net of valuation allowance, and a $6 million expense associated with reversing a receivable related to periods that have been effectively settled with the IRS. The 2011 rate increase was due in part to $24 million of non-deductible transaction costs and an $8 million valuation allowance recorded on deferred tax assets that require future income of a special character to realize the benefits. Such increase was partially offset by a $16 million reduction in our valuation allowance related to state NOLs due primarily to the effects of a tax law change in one of the states in which we operate. Certain merger-related costs incurred during 2010 are also non-deductible for income tax purposes and similarly increased our effective income tax rate. See Note 12Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report and "Income Taxes" below for additional information. Segment Results As described further above under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverview," we revised our segment structure in 2012 and restated previously reported segment results for the year ended December 31, 2011 to conform to our 2012 segment presentation. The following table summarizes our segment results for 2012 and 2011 under our segment categorization at December 31, 2012. Total segment revenues $ 17,320 14,471 Total segment expenses 8,094 6,513 Total segment income $ 9,226 7,958 Total margin percentage 53% 55% Regional markets: Revenues $ 9,876 8,743 Expenses 4,218 3,673 Income $ 5,658 5,070 Margin percentage 57% 58% Wholesale markets: Revenues $ 3,721 3,305 Expenses 1,117 1,021 Income $ 2,604 2,284 Margin percentage 70% 69% Enterprise marketsnetwork: Revenues $ 2,609 1,933 Expenses 1,891 1,450 Income $ 718 483 Margin percentage 28% 25% Enterprise marketsdata hosting: Revenues $ 1,114 490 Expenses 868 369 Income $ 246 121 Margin percentage 22% 25% 57 Table of Contents Due to system limitations, we have determined that it is impracticable to restate 2010's reported segments to conform to our current segment categorization at December 31, 2012. For comparability purposes, we have included our segment information for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 based on the segment categorization we were operating under at the end of 2011. Total segment revenues $ 14,471 6,495 Total segment expenses 6,535 2,403 Total segment income $ 7,936 4,092 Total margin percentage 55% 63% Regional markets: Revenues $ 7,832 4,640 Expenses 3,398 1,783 Income $ 4,434 2,857 Margin percentage 57% 62% Business markets: Revenues $ 2,861 266 Expenses 1,736 120 Income $ 1,125 146 Margin percentage 39% 55% Wholesale markets: Revenues $ 3,295 1,589 Expenses 1,021 500 Income $ 2,274 1,089 Margin percentage 69% 69% Savvis operations: Revenues $ 483 Expenses 380 Income $ 103 Margin percentage 21% The lower levels of margin percentage for regional markets and business markets in 2011 were primarily attributable to the inclusion of Qwest's results beginning April 1, 2011. 58 Table of Contents The following table reconciles our total segment revenues and total segment income presented above to operating revenues and operating income reported in our consolidated statements of operations. Total segment revenues $ 17,320 14,471 6,495 Other operating revenues 1,056 880 547 Operating revenues reported in our consolidated statements of operations $ 18,376 15,351 7,042 Total segment income $ 9,226 7,958 4,092 Other operating revenues 1,056 880 547 Depreciation and amortization (4,780 ) (4,026 ) (1,434 ) Other unassigned operating expenses (2,789 ) (2,787 ) (1,145 ) Operating income reported in our consolidated statement of operations $ 2,713 2,025 2,060 Our segment revenues include all revenues from our strategic and legacy services and data integration as described in more detail above. Segment revenues are based upon each customer's classification to an individual segment. We report our segment revenues based upon all services provided to that segment's customers. We report our segment expenses for our four segments as follows: Direct expenses, which primarily are specific expenses incurred as a direct result of providing services and products to segment customers, along with selling, general and administrative expenses that are directly associated with specific segment customers or activities; and Allocated expenses, which include network expenses, facilities expenses and other expenses such as fleet and real estate expenses. During the first quarter of 2012, as we transitioned certain of Qwest's legacy systems to our historical company systems, we updated our methodologies for reporting our direct expenses and for allocating our expenses to our segments. Specifically, we no longer include certain fleet expenses for our regional markets segment in direct expenses; they are now expenses allocated to our segments, with the exception of enterprise marketsdata hosting. In addition, we now more fully allocate network building rent and power expenses to our regional markets, wholesale markets and enterprise marketsnetwork segments. We determined that it was impracticable to recast our segment results for prior periods to reflect these changes in methodology. During the second quarter of 2012, as we reorganized our business into our four segments as indicated above, we further revised our methodology for how we allocate our expenses to our segments to better align segment expenses with related revenues. Under our revised methodology, we no longer allocate certain product development costs to our segments, but we do now allocate certain expenses from our enterprise marketsdata hosting segment to our other three segments. We restated our segment results for 2011 to reflect these changes in our methodology. We determined that it was impracticable to recast our segment results for 2010 under our revised methodology. We do not assign depreciation and amortization expense to our segments, as the related assets and capital expenditures are centrally managed. Similarly, severance expenses, restructuring expenses and, subject to an exception for our enterprise marketsdata hosting segment, certain centrally managed administrative functions (such as finance, information technology, legal and human resources) are not 59 Table of Contents assigned to our segments. Interest expense is also excluded from segment results because we manage our financing on a total company basis and have not allocated assets or debt to specific segments. In addition, other income (expense) does not relate to our segment operations and is therefore excluded from our segment results. As discussed under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverview", beginning in the first quarter of 2013, we plan to report our operations under the following four segments: consumer, business, wholesale and data hosting. Regional Markets The operations of our regional markets segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below. Strategic services. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services in our regional markets segment. In order to remain competitive, we believe continually increasing connection speeds is important. As a result, we continue to invest in our (broadband) network, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services. While traditional broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber-based broadband services. We also continue to expand our product offerings including facilities-based video services, Ethernet, MPLS and other managed services and we continue to refine our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which most consumers already have broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and increase our strategic revenues; Facilities-based video expenses. As we continue to expand our facilities-based video service infrastructure, we are incurring start-up expenses in advance of the revenue that this service is expected to generate. Although, over time, we expect that our revenue for facilities-based video services will offset the expenses incurred, the timing of this revenue growth is uncertain; Access lines. Our voice revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice and electronic mail, texting and social networking services for traditional voice telecommunications services. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business. As a result of the expected loss of revenues associated with access lines, we continue to offer service bundling and other product promotions to help mitigate this trend, as described below; Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless; Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our state and local government customers, many of whom have recently experienced budget cuts; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. 60 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the results of operations from our regional markets segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 3,607 2,890 168 546 3 717 Legacy services 5,996 5,593 (399 ) 802 403 Data integration 273 260 (19 ) 32 13 Total revenues 9,876 8,743 (250 ) 1,380 3 1,133 Segment expenses: Direct 3,939 3,469 (44 ) 514 470 Allocated 279 204 52 20 3 75 Total expenses 4,218 3,673 8 534 3 545 Segment income $ 5,658 5,070 (258 ) 846 588 Segment margin percentage 57% 58% Segment Income The acquisition of Qwest on April 1, 2011 largely contributed to an increase in our regional markets segment income of $588 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011. Our consolidated segment margin percentage remained relatively unchanged from 2011 to 2012. Segment income for our Legacy CenturyLink operations decreased $258 million as compared to 2011 reflecting declines in revenues while expenses remained relatively flat. Segment Revenues Excluding revenues attributable to the Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis acquisitions, regional markets revenues decreased $250 million, or 2.9%, for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 due to declines in legacy services revenues and the implementation of the CAF order, partially offset by growth in strategic services revenues. Legacy services revenues decreased primarily due to declines in local and long-distance services associated principally with access line losses resulting from the competitive pressures and product substitution described previously. Growth in strategic services revenues was principally due to increases in the number of broadband subscribers as well as volume increases in our facilities-based video, Ethernet, and MPLS services. Segment Expenses Regional markets total expenses, exclusive of Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis expenses, increased $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011, due to an increase in allocated expenses. Allocated expenses increased primarily due to our updated methodology more fully allocating to our segments network and building rent and related power expenses. Direct expenses decreased due to decreases in employee related expenses, fleet expenses and marketing costs, which were partially offset by increases in customer premise equipment costs and network service costs. 61 Table of Contents Wholesale Markets The operations of our wholesale markets segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Private line services (including special access). Demand for our private line services continues to increase, despite our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors could negatively impact our wholesale markets segment, we ultimately believe the bandwidth consumption growth in our fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access services provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain; Access and local services revenues. Our access and local services revenues have been and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected by technological migration, industry consolidation, regulation and rate reductions. For example, wholesale consumers are substituting cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued access revenue loss. We expect these factors will continue to adversely impact our wholesale markets segment; Switched access revenues. We believe that changes related to the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") adopted by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") on October 27, 2011 will substantially increase the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive in our wholesale markets segment; Long-distance services revenues. Wholesale long-distance revenues continue to decline as a result of customer migration to more technologically advanced services, price compression, declining demand for traditional voice services and industry consolidation; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. We also expect our wholesale markets segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 62 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the results of operations from our wholesale markets segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 2,296 1,915 33 339 9 381 Legacy services 1,424 1,389 (213 ) 248 35 Data integration 1 1 Total revenues 3,721 3,305 (180 ) 587 9 416 Segment expenses: Direct 169 174 (18 ) 13 (5 ) Allocated 948 847 (60 ) 155 6 101 Total expenses 1,117 1,021 (78 ) 168 6 96 Segment income $ 2,604 2,284 (102 ) 419 3 320 Segment margin percentage 70% 69% Segment Income The acquisition of Qwest on April 1, 2011 largely contributed to an increase in our wholesale markets segment income of $320 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011. Segment income for our Legacy CenturyLink operations decreased $102 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011, primarily reflecting declines in revenues, as discussed further below. Segment Revenues Excluding revenues attributable to the Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis acquisitions, wholesale markets revenues decreased $180 million, or 5.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011. This decrease reflects substantially lower revenues from legacy services, partially offset by growth in revenues from strategic services. Strategic services revenues increased primarily due to growth in Ethernet and broadband services. The decrease in legacy services revenues was driven by continuing declines in access, long-distance and local services volumes, and the implementation of the CAF order, as well as the substitution of cable, wireless, VoIP and other services for traditional voice telecommunications services. Segment Expenses Wholesale markets expenses, exclusive of Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis expenses, decreased $78 million, or 7.6%, for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011. The decrease in Legacy CenturyLink wholesale markets expenses was primarily due to a lower allocation of fleet and network real estate expenses due to the above-described updated expense allocation methodology and to reductions in employee related expenses. 63 Table of Contents Enterprise MarketsNetwork The operations of our enterprise marketsnetwork segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below. Strategic services. Our mix of total segment revenues continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our enterprise and government customers increasingly demand customized and integrated data, Internet and voice services. We offer to our enterprise customers diverse combinations of products and services such as private line, MPLS and VoIP services. We believe these services afford our customers more flexibility in managing their communications needs and enable us to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their operations. Although we are experiencing price compression on our strategic services due to competition, we expect overall revenues from these services to grow; Legacy services. We face intense competition with respect to our legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services into strategic services. In addition, our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price compression; Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal government customers. In addition, changes to our compensation programs, which focus on higher margin strategic services, could negatively impact data integration revenues; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our productivity improvements while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. We also expect our enterprise marketsnetwork segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. The following table summarizes the results of operations from our enterprise marketsnetwork segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 1,344 967 56 314 7 377 Legacy services 867 690 (21 ) 198 177 Data integration 398 276 38 84 122 Total revenues 2,609 1,933 73 596 7 676 Segment expenses: Direct 781 568 33 180 213 Allocated 1,110 882 (40 ) 261 7 228 Total expenses 1,891 1,450 (7 ) 441 7 441 Segment income $ 718 483 80 155 235 Segment margin percentage 28% 25% 64 Table of Contents Segment Income The acquisition of Qwest on April 1, 2011 substantially increased the scale of our enterprise marketsnetwork segment, resulting in an increase of $235 million in segment income for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011. Segment income for our Legacy CenturyLink operations increased $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011, primarily reflecting an increase in revenues. Segment Revenues Excluding revenues attributable to the Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis acquisitions, enterprise marketsnetwork segment revenues increased by $73 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase was primarily due to growth in strategic services revenues from increased volumes of MPLS services and increased data integration revenues from maintenance and installation of customer premise equipment. Lower revenues from legacy services were driven by access line losses and price compression partially offset the increases in strategic services revenues and data integration revenues. Segment Expenses Enterprise marketsnetwork segment expenses, exclusive of Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis expenses, decreased by $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to decreased allocated expenses partially offset by increased direct expenses. Allocated expenses decreased for the year ended December 31, 2012 due to lower allocation of fleet and network real estate expenses due to the above-described updated expense allocation methodology. The increase in direct expenses was primarily due to increased maintenance and installation costs associated with customer premise equipment, partially offset by decreases in employee related expenses. Enterprise MarketsData Hosting The operations of our enterprise marketsdata hosting segment is largely comprised of the operations of our Legacy Savvis services for periods after the July 15, 2011 acquisition date, which have been impacted by significant trends, including those described below. Colocation. Colocation is designed for clients seeking data center space and power for their server and networking equipment needs. Our data centers provide our domestic and international clients with a secure, high-powered, purpose-built location for their IT equipment. We anticipate continued pricing pressure for these services as wholesale vendors enter the enterprise colocation market; however, we believe that our combination of global data center assets, operational expertise and broad range of services strengthens our competitive position; Managed hosting. Our managed hosting services provide a fully managed solution for a customer's IT infrastructure and network needs, and include dedicated and cloud hosting services, utility and computing storage, consulting and managed security services. We expect increasing pricing pressure on the managed hosting business from competing cloud hosting offerings. However, we remain focused on expanding our managed hosting business, specifically in our cloud hosting offerings, which we believe is a key to growth. We believe that we have continued to strengthen our position in the cloud hosting market by adding differentiating features to our cloud hosting products; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. 65 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the results of operations from our enterprise marketsdata hosting segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 1,114 490 50 8 566 624 Total revenues 1,114 490 50 8 566 624 Segment expenses: Direct 940 415 56 11 458 525 Allocated (72 ) (46 ) 1 (10 ) (17 ) (26 ) Total expenses 868 369 57 1 441 499 Segment income $ 246 121 (7 ) 7 125 125 Segment margin percentage 22% 25% Segment Income The acquisition of Savvis on July 15, 2011 substantially increased the scale of our enterprise marketsdata hosting segment, resulting in an increase of $125 million in our segment income for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Segment Revenues Savvis operations accounted for 97% of our enterprise marketsdata hosting segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Growth in strategic services is driven by roughly equivalent increases in both colocation and managed hosting. Segment Expenses Excluding the expenses attributable to the Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis acquisitions, enterprise marketsdata hosting segment direct expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to increases in salaries and benefits caused by a higher headcount and an increase in facility costs. Due to the continuing use of Legacy Savvis accounting systems, the direct expenses of our enterprise marketsdata hosting segment includes certain data communication, operational, and selling, general, and administrative costs that are allocated to our other three segments and are offset by corporate allocated expenses which resulted in a negative net allocation impact. Other Operational Matters Approximately 26% of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expired on October 6, 2012. We are currently negotiating the terms of new agreements. In the meantime, the predecessor agreements have been extended, and the applicable unions have agreed to provide us with at least 24 hour advance notice before terminating those predecessor agreements. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements with our labor unions, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could 66 Table of Contents be materially harmed. See "Risk FactorsOther Risks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of this report. To help mitigate this potential risk, we have established contingency plans in which we would assign trained, non-represented employees to cover jobs for represented employees in the event of a work stoppage to provide continuity for our customers. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We have identified certain policies and estimates as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our past or present results of operations related to (i) business combinations; (ii) goodwill, customer relationships and other intangible assets; (iii) property, plant and equipment; (iv) pension and post-retirement benefits; (v) loss contingencies and litigation reserves; and (vi) income taxes. These policies and estimates are considered critical because they had a material impact, or they have the potential to have a material impact, on our consolidated financial statements and because they require significant judgments, assumptions or estimates. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions made when accounting for the items described below are reasonable, based on information available at the time they are made. However, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Business Combinations We have accounted for our acquisitions of Qwest on April 1, 2011 and Savvis on July 15, 2011 under the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the tangible and separately identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The portion of the purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of the net tangible and separately identifiable intangible assets acquired represents goodwill. The estimates of fair value and resulting allocation of the purchase price related to our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis involved significant estimates and judgments by our management. In arriving at the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we considered the following generally accepted valuation approaches: the cost approach, income approach and market approach. Our estimates also included assumptions about projected growth rates, cost of capital, effective tax rates, tax amortization periods, technology life cycles, the regulatory and legal environment and industry and economic trends. Small changes in the underlying assumptions could impact the estimates of fair value by material amounts, which could in turn materially impact our results of operations. Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets We amortize customer relationships over primarily over an estimated life of 10 years to 12.5 years, using either the sum-of-the-years-digits or straight-line methods, depending on the type of customer. We amortize capitalized software, which consists primarily of assets obtained from the Qwest acquisition, using the straight-line method over estimated lives ranging up to seven years. Approximately $237 million of our capitalized software represents costs to develop an integrated billing and customer care system and is being amortized over a 20 year period that began in 2004. We amortize trade names and patent assets predominantly using the sum-of-the-years digits over an estimated life of four years. Other intangible assets not arising from business combinations are initially recorded at cost. Where there are no legal, regulatory, contractual or other factors that would reasonably limit the useful life of an intangible asset, we classify the intangible asset as indefinite-lived and such intangible assets are not amortized. We periodically review the estimated lives and methods used to amortize our other intangible assets. The amount of future amortization expense may differ materially from current amounts, depending on the results of our periodic reviews. 67 Table of Contents Our long-lived intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually, or, under certain circumstances, more frequently, such as when events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. These assets are carried at historical cost if their estimated fair value is greater than their carrying amounts. However, if their estimated fair value is less than the carrying amount, other indefinite-lived intangible assets are reduced to their estimated fair value through an impairment charge to our consolidated statements of operations. We early adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2012-2, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment, during the fourth quarter of 2012, which allows us the option to first review qualitative factors to determine the likelihood of whether the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired before performing a qualitative impairment test. Under this approach, if we determine that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, we will be required to compute and compare the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount to determine and measure the impairment loss, if any. We completed our qualitative assessment as of December 31, 2012 and concluded it is not more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired; thus, no impairment charge was recorded in 2012. Our goodwill was derived from numerous acquisitions where the purchase price exceeded the fair value of the net assets acquired. For more information on our recent acquisitions and resulting fair values, see Note 2Acquisitions to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. We are required to reassign goodwill to reporting units each time we reorganize our internal reporting structure which causes a change in our operating segments. Goodwill is reassigned to the reporting units using a relative fair value allocation approach. We utilize the earnings before interest, tax and depreciation as our allocation methodology as it represents a reasonable proxy for the fair value of the operations being reorganized. We have attributed our goodwill balance to our segments at December 31, 2012 as follows: Regional markets $ 15,170 Wholesale markets 3,283 Enterprise marketsnetwork 1,788 Enterprise marketsdata hosting 1,491 Total goodwill $ 21,732 For additional information on the April 1, 2012 reorganization of our segments, see Note 13Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or a change in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. We are required to write-down the value of goodwill in periods in which the recorded amount of goodwill exceeds the fair value. Our reporting units, which we refer to as our segments, are not discrete legal entities with discrete financial statements. Our assets and liabilities are employed in and relate to the operations of multiple reporting units. Therefore, each time we perform goodwill impairment analysis on a reporting unit, we estimate the equity carrying value and future cash flows of each of our segments using allocation methodologies. Certain estimates, judgments and assumptions are required to perform these allocations. We believe these estimates, judgments and assumptions to be reasonable, but slight changes in many of these can significantly affect each reporting unit's equity carrying value and future cash flows utilized for our goodwill impairment test. Our annual measurement date for testing goodwill impairment is September 30. As of September 30, 2012, we tested for goodwill impairment on our reporting units, which were our four operating segments (regional markets, wholesale markets, 68 Table of Contents enterprise marketsnetwork and enterprise marketsdata hosting) that we recognized following our internal reorganization earlier in 2012. In the third quarter of 2011, we adopted the provisions of ASU 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, which permits us to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's estimated fair value is less than its carrying amount before applying the two-step goodwill impairment test, which requires us (i) in step one, to identify potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit against its carrying value and (ii) in step two, to quantify any impairment identified in step one. At September 30, 2012, as a result of the April 1, 2012 internal reorganization of our four segments we did not have a baseline valuation to perform a qualitative assessment. We estimated the fair value of our four segments using an equal weighting based on a market approach and a discounted cash flow method. The market approach includes the use of comparable multiples of publicly traded companies whose services are comparable to ours. The discounted cash flow method is based on the present value of projected cash flows and a terminal value, which represents the expected normalized cash flows of the segments beyond the cash flows from the discrete nine-year projection period. We discounted the estimated cash flows for our regional markets, wholesale markets, and enterprise marketsnetwork segments using a rate that represents a market participant's weighted average cost of capital, which we determined to be approximately 6.0% as of the measurement date (which was comprised of an after-tax cost of debt of 3.2% and a cost of equity of 8.4%). We discounted the estimated cash flows of our enterprise marketsdata hosting segment using a rate that represents a market participant's estimated weighted average cost of capital, which we determined to be approximately 11.0% as of the measurement date (which was comprised of an after-tax cost of debt of 3.2% and a cost of equity of 12.0%). We also reconciled the estimated fair values of the segments to our market capitalization as of September 30, 2012 and concluded that the indicated implied control premium of approximately 14% was reasonable based on recent transactions in the market place. Based on our analysis performed with respect to our reporting units described above, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired as of September 30, 2012. As of September 30, 2012, based on our analysis performed with respect to our four reporting units, the estimated fair value of our equity exceeded our carrying value of equity for our regional markets, wholesale markets, enterprise marketsnetwork and enterprise marketsdata hosting segments by 19%, 130%, 78% and 10%, respectively. We may be required to assess our goodwill for impairment before our next required testing date of September 30, 2013 under certain circumstances, including any failure of our future operating results to meet forecasted expectations or any significant increases in our weighted average cost of capital. In addition, we cannot assure that adverse conditions will not trigger future goodwill impairment testing or an impairment charge. A number of factors, many of which we have no ability to control, could affect our financial condition, operating results and business prospects and could cause our actual results to differ from the estimates and assumptions we employed in our goodwill impairment testing. These factors include, but are not limited to, (i) further weakening in the overall economy; (ii) a significant decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization; (iii) changes in the discount rate; (iv) successful efforts by our competitors to gain market share in our markets; (v) adverse changes as a result of regulatory actions; (vi) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the overall business climate; and (vii) recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of our reporting units. For additional information, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report. We will continue to monitor certain events that impact our operations to determine if an interim assessment of goodwill impairment should be performed prior to the next required testing date of September 30, 2013. 69 Table of Contents Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired in connection with our acquisitions was recorded based on its estimated fair value as of its acquisition date. Property, plant and equipment purchased subsequent to our acquisitions is recorded at cost plus the estimated value of any associated legally or contractually required asset retirement obligation. Renewals and betterments of plant and equipment are capitalized while repairs, as well as renewals of minor items, are charged to operating expense. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on the straight-line method using class or overall group rates. The group method provides for the recognition of the remaining net investment, less anticipated net salvage value, over the remaining useful life of the assets. This method requires the periodic revision of depreciation rates. Normal retirements of property, plant and equipment are charged against accumulated depreciation, with no gain or loss recognized. Other types of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost and, when sold or retired, a gain or loss is recognized. We depreciate such property on the straight-line method over estimated service lives ranging from 3 to 45 years. We perform annual internal reviews to evaluate the reasonableness of the depreciable lives for our property, plant and equipment. Our reviews utilize models that take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, assumptions about technology evolution and, in certain instances, actuarially determined probabilities to estimate the remaining life of our asset base. Due to rapid changes in technology and the competitive environment, selecting the estimated economic life of telecommunications plant, equipment and software requires a significant amount of judgment. We regularly review data on utilization of equipment, asset retirements and salvage values to determine adjustments to our depreciation rates. The effect of a hypothetical one year increase or decrease in the estimated remaining useful lives of our property, plant and equipment would have decreased depreciation by approximately $460 million or increased depreciation by approximately $650 million, respectively. We review long-lived assets, other than goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, for impairment whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the assets may not be recoverable. For measurement purposes, long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities, absent a material change in operations. An impairment loss is recognized only if the carrying amount of the asset group is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. Recoverability of the asset group to be held and used is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset group. If the asset group's carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. We determine fair values by using a combination of comparable market values and discounted cash flows, as appropriate. During 2012, we did not incur changes in events or circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amounts of our long-lived assets, other than goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, may not be recoverable. As a result, no impairment charge was recorded in 2012. Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits We sponsor several noncontributory defined benefit pension plans (referred to as our pension plans) for a substantial portion of our employees. In addition to these tax "qualified" pension plans, we also maintain several non-qualified pension plans for certain eligible highly compensated employees. We also maintain post-retirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain eligible retirees. 70 Table of Contents Pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits attributed to eligible employees' service during the year, as well as interest on benefit obligations, are accrued currently. Pension and post-retirement benefit expenses are recognized over the period in which the employee renders service and becomes eligible to receive benefits as determined using the projected unit credit method. Pension prior service costs and certain actuarial gains and losses are recognized as components of net periodic expense over the average remaining service period of participating employees expected to receive benefits. Post-retirement healthcare prior service costs are recognized as components of net periodic expense over the average expected years to full benefit eligibility for active employees. Certain post-retirement actuarial gains or losses are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average expected future working lifetime of active employees. In computing the pension and post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits expenses and obligations, the most significant assumptions we make include discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, health care trend rates and our evaluation of the legal basis for plan amendments. The plan benefits covered by collective bargaining agreements as negotiated with our employees' unions can also significantly impact the amount of expense, benefit obligations and pension assets that we record. The discount rate is the rate at which we believe we could effectively settle the benefit obligations as of the end of the year. We selected the discount rate based on a cash flow matching analysis using hypothetical yield curves developed by an actuarial firm from U.S. corporate bonds rated high quality and projections of the future benefit payments that constitute the projected benefit obligation for the plans. This process establishes the uniform discount rate that produces the same present value of the estimated future benefit payments as is generated by discounting each year's benefit payments by a spot rate applicable to that year. The spot rates used in this process are derived from a yield curve created from yields on the 60th to 90th percentile of U.S. high quality bonds. The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return we expect to earn on the plans' assets in the future. The rate of return is determined by the strategic allocation of plan assets and the long-term risk and return forecast for each asset class. The forecasts for each asset class are generated primarily from an analysis of the long-term expectations of various third party investment management organizations. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. To compute the expected return on pension and post-retirement benefit plan assets, we apply an expected rate of return to the fair value of the pension plan assets and to the fair value of the post-retirement benefit plan assets adjusted for contribution timing and for projected benefit payments to be made from the plan assets. Annual market volatility for these assets is reflected in subsequent years' net periodic combined benefits expense. Changes in any of the above factors could significantly impact operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and other comprehensive (loss) income in the consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income as well as the value of the liability and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheets. The expected return on plan assets is reflected as a reduction to our pension and post-retirement benefit expense. If our assumed expected rates of return for 2012 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $118 million. If our assumed discount rates for 2012 were 100 basis points lower, our qualified pension and post-retirement benefit expenses would have increased by $78 million and our projected benefit obligation would have increased by approximately $2.2 billion. An increase of 100 basis points in the initial healthcare cost trend rate would have increased our post-retirement benefit expense by $11 million and increased our projected post-retirement benefit obligation by $77 million. The trusts for the pension and post-retirement benefits plans hold investments in equities, fixed income, real estate and other assets such as private equity assets. The assets held by these trusts are 71 Table of Contents reflected at estimated fair value as of December 31, 2012. For additional information on our trust investments, see Note 8Employee Benefits to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report. Loss Contingencies and Litigation Reserves We are involved in several material legal proceedings, as described in more detail in "Legal Proceedings" in Item 3 of this report. We assess potential losses in relation to these and other pending or threatened tax and legal matters. For matters not related to income taxes, if a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we recognize an expense for the estimated loss. To the extent these estimates are more or less than the actual liability resulting from the resolution of these matters, our earnings will be increased or decreased accordingly. If the differences are material, our consolidated financial statements could be materially impacted. If a loss is considered reasonably possible, we disclose the estimate of the potential loss if material but we do not recognize any expense for the potential loss. For matters related to income taxes, we determine that if the impact of an uncertain tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority, then we recognize a benefit for the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained. No portion of an uncertain tax position will be recognized if the position has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. Though the validity of any tax position is a matter of tax law, the body of statutory, regulatory and interpretive guidance on the application of the law is complex and often ambiguous. Because of this, whether a tax position will ultimately be sustained may be uncertain. The overall tax liability recorded for uncertain tax positions as of the successor dates of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, considers the anticipated utilization of any applicable tax credits and net operating losses ("NOLs"). Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes includes amounts for tax consequences deferred to future periods. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflecting future tax consequences attributable to tax net operating losses, or NOLs, tax credit carryforwards and differences between the financial statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and the tax bases of those assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes are computed using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred taxes often involves the exercise of considerable judgment related to the realization of tax basis. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our assessment that tax positions taken in filed tax returns and the resulting tax basis, are more likely than not to be sustained if they are audited by taxing authorities. Also, assessing tax rates that we expect to apply and determining the years when the temporary differences are expected to affect taxable income requires judgment about the future apportionment of our income among the states in which we operate. Any changes in our practices or judgments involved in the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities as described above. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred income tax assets to amounts that we believe are more likely than not to be recovered. We evaluate our deferred tax assets quarterly to determine whether adjustments to our valuation allowance are appropriate in light of changes in facts or circumstances, such as changes in tax law, interactions with taxing authorities and developments in case law. In making this evaluation, we rely on our recent history of pre-tax earnings, estimated timing of future deductions and benefits represented by the deferred tax assets and our forecasts of future earnings, the latter two 72 Table of Contents of which involve the exercise of significant judgment. At December 31, 2012, we established a valuation allowance of $281 million, primarily related to state NOLs, as it is more likely than not that this amount will not be utilized prior to expiration. If forecasts of future earnings and the nature and estimated timing of future deductions and benefits change in the future, we may determine that a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets is appropriate, which could materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. See Note 12Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At December 31, 2012, we held cash and cash equivalents of $211 million and we had $1.180 billion available under our $2 billion revolving credit facility (referred to as our "Credit Facility", which is described further below). At December 31, 2012, cash and cash equivalents of $58 million were held in foreign bank accounts for the purpose of funding our foreign operations. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local law and subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Excluding cash used for acquisitions, we have generally relied on cash generated by operations and our Credit Facility to fund our operating and capital expenditures and other cash requirements. At December 31, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $982 million, reflecting current liabilities of $4.595 billion and current assets of $3.613 billion, compared to negative working capital of $500 million at December 31, 2011. The unfavorable change in our working capital position is primarily due to an increase in current maturities of long-term debt of $725 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $193 million. We anticipate that our existing cash balances and net cash provided by operating activities will enable us to meet our other current obligations, fund capital expenditures and pay dividends to our shareholders. We also may draw on our Credit Facility as a source of liquidity if and when necessary. We currently expect to continue our current practice of paying quarterly cash dividends in respect of our common stock, subject to our board's discretion to modify or terminate this practice at any time. Credit Facilities On April 6, 2012, we amended and restated our $1.7 billion revolving credit facility to increase the aggregate principal amount available to $2 billion and to extend the maturity date to April 2017. This amended credit facility (the "Credit Facility") has 18 lenders, with commitments ranging from $2.5 million to $181 million and allows us to obtain revolving loans and to issue up to $400 million of letters of credit, which upon issuance reduce the amount available for other extensions of credit. Interest is assessed on borrowings using either the LIBOR or the base rate (each as defined in the Credit Facility) plus an applicable margin between 1.25% and 2.25% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.25% and 1.25% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Embarq and QCII, and one of QCII's wholly-owned subsidiaries. In the event of a ratings decline below "investment grade" as defined, Savvis and its operating subsidiaries will become guarantors of the Credit Facility. At December 31, 2012, we had $820 million in borrowings and no amounts of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility. Under the Credit Facility, we, and our indirect subsidiary, Qwest Corporation, must maintain a debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined in our Credit Facility) ratio of not more than 4.0:1.0 and 2.85:1.0, respectively, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter for the four quarters then ended. The Credit Facility also contains a negative pledge covenant, which generally requires us to secure equally and ratably any advances under the Credit Facility if we 73 Table of Contents pledge assets or permit liens on our property for the benefit of other debtholders. The Credit Facility also has a cross payment default provision, and the Credit Facility and certain of our debt securities also have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. To the extent that our EBITDA (as defined in our Credit Facility) is reduced by cash settlements or judgments, including in respect of any of the matters discussed in Note 15Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, our debt to EBITDA ratios under certain debt agreements will be adversely affected. This could reduce our financing flexibility due to potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements or, in certain circumstances, could result in a default under certain provisions of such agreements. In April 2011, we entered into a $160 million uncommitted revolving letter of credit facility. At December 31, 2012, our outstanding letters of credit totaled $120 million under this facility. Stock Repurchase Program On February 13, 2013, we announced our board's approval of a two-year program to repurchase up to an aggregate of $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. We expect to execute this share repurchase program primarily in open market transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors. Debt and Other Financing Arrangements Approximately $176 million of our CenturyLink, Inc. Series O 5.500% notes will mature on April 1, 2013, and $750 million of Qwest Corporation floating rate senior notes will mature on June 15, 2013. In addition, approximately $59 million of Embarq 6.875% notes and $50 million of Embarq 6.750% notes will mature on July 15, 2013 and August 15, 2013, respectively. Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to issue debt securities from time to time in the future to refinance a substantial portion of our maturing debt, including issuing QC debt securities to refinance its maturing debt. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned to us and QC by credit rating agencies, among others factors. Following our announcement on February 13, 2013 of changes in our capital allocation plans, one credit agency downgraded CenturyLink's debt credit ratings and another indicated that it has placed CenturyLink's debt credit ratings under review for a downgrade. As of the date of this report, the credit ratings for the senior unsecured debt of CenturyLink, Inc. and Qwest Corporation were as follows: Standard & Poor's BB BBB- Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Baa3 (under review for downgrade) Baa3 (under review for downgrade) Fitch Ratings BB+ BBB- Additional downgrades of CenturyLink's senior unsecured debt ratings could under certain circumstances incrementally increase the cost of our borrowing under the Credit Facility or require us to add a couple of additional subsidiary guarantors thereunder. In addition, the recent actions of the credit agencies, and any additional downgrades in the future, could impact our access to debt capital or further raise our borrowing costs. See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of this report. 74 Table of Contents Future Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our estimated future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012: Long-term debt, including current maturities and capital lease obligations $ 1,205 781 545 1,488 2,313 14,255 20,587 Interest on long-term debt and capital leases (1) 1,317 1,279 1,220 1,148 1,034 14,397 20,395 Operating leases 297 252 219 183 156 964 2,071 Purchase commitments (2) 213 76 53 45 41 96 524 Post-retirement benefit obligation 74 73 72 70 68 1,100 1,457 Non-qualified pension obligations 6 5 5 5 5 22 48 Unrecognized tax benefits (3) 87 87 Other 14 4 5 8 11 135 177 Total future contractual obligations (4) $ 3,126 2,470 2,119 2,947 3,628 31,056 45,346 (1) Actual interest paid in all years may differ due to future refinancing of debt. Interest on our floating rate debt was calculated for all years using the rates effective at December 31, 2012. (2) We have various long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments for advertising and promotion services, including advertising and marketing at sports arenas and other venues and events. We also have service related commitments with various vendors for data processing, technical and software support services. Future payments under certain service contracts will vary depending on our actual usage. In the table above we estimated payments for these service contracts based on the level of services we expect to receive. (3) Represents the amount of tax and interest we would pay for our unrecognized tax benefits. Of our total balance of unrecognized tax benefits of $78 million and related estimated interest and penalties of $33 million, only $87 million would result in future cash payments if our tax positions were not upheld. The remaining $24 million is an unrecognized tax benefit in the form of a refund claim that, if not granted, would not result in a cash payment and therefore is not included in the table above. See Note 12Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information. The timing of any payments for our unrecognized tax benefits cannot be predicted with certainty; therefore, such amount is reflected in the "2018 and thereafter" column in the above table. (4) The table is limited to contractual obligations only and does not include: contingent liabilities; our open purchase orders as of December 31, 2012. These purchase orders are generally issued at fair value, and are generally cancelable without penalty; other long-term liabilities, such as accruals for legal matters and other taxes that are not contractual obligations by nature. We cannot determine with any degree of reliability the years in which these liabilities might ultimately settle; cash funding requirements for qualified pension benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plans are paid through trusts. Cash funding requirements for these trusts are not included in this table as we are not able to reliably estimate required contributions to the trusts. Our funding projections are discussed further below; certain post-retirement benefits payable to certain eligible current and future retirees. Not all of our post-retirement benefit obligation amount is a contractual obligation and only the portion that we believe is a contractual obligation is reported in the table. See additional information on our benefits plans in Note 8Employee Benefits to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report; 75 Table of Contents contract termination fees. These fees are non-recurring payments, the timing and payment of which, if any, is uncertain. In the ordinary course of business and to optimize our cost structure, we enter into contracts with terms greater than one year to use the network facilities of other carriers and to purchase other goods and services. Our contracts to use other carriers' network facilities generally have no minimum volume requirements and are based on an interrelationship of volumes and discounted rates. Assuming we terminate these contracts in 2013, the contract termination fees would be approximately $495 million. Under the same assumption, termination fees for these contracts to purchase goods and services would be $31 million. In the normal course of business, we do not believe payment of these fees is likely; and potential indemnification obligations to counterparties in certain agreements entered into in the normal course of business. The nature and terms of these arrangements vary. Historically, we have not incurred significant costs related to performance under these types of arrangements. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth, operating, productivity, expense or service impacts) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations. We estimate our total 2013 capital expenditures to be approximately $2.85 billion to $3.05 billion. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as video, broadband and managed hosting services. In particular, we expect to continue to focus on expanding our fiber infrastructure, including installations of "fiber to the tower," which is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network. For more information on capital spending, see Items 1 and 1A of this report. We have agreed to accept approximately $35 million of the $90 million available to us from Phase 1 of the FCC's Connect America Fund ("CAF") established by Congress to help telecommunications carriers defray the cost of providing broadband access to remote customers. We intend to use the funds to deploy broadband service for up to 45,000 homes in unserved rural areas principally in Colorado, Minnesota, New Mexico, Virginia and Washington. We determined that restrictions on the use of these funds have made acceptance of additional CAF funds uneconomical. We have, however, filed with the FCC a waiver application, which, if granted, would allow us to deploy broadband services with CAF funds to approximately 60,000 more homes in high-cost unserved areas in our markets. We received approximately $32 million in CAF funds during 2012 and received approximately $3 million in January 2013. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans. The accounting unfunded status as of December 31, 2012 of our defined pension plans and other post-retirement benefit obligations were $2.6 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. See Note 8Employee Benefits to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information about our pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plans are paid through a trust that holds all plan assets. We made cash contributions of $32 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 to our qualified pension plans. In the first quarter of 2013, we made cash contributions totaling $147 million. Based on current laws and circumstances, we do not expect any further required contributions to the plans for 76 Table of Contents the remainder of 2013. For information on a 2012 law that reduced the amount of our required pension plan cash contributions, please see our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. Several trusts hold assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of these trust assets was $626 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately four years. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trusts as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected four year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimated annual long-term rate of return on the pension plans trust assets is 7.50% and for the post-retirement plans trust assets ranges from 6.00% to 7.50% based on the assets currently held; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. Historical Information The following table summarizes our consolidated cash flow activities (which include cash flows from Savvis and Qwest after their respective acquisition dates): Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,065 4,201 1,864 Net cash used in investing activities (2,690 ) (3,647 ) (957 ) Net cash used in financing activities (3,295 ) (577 ) 2,718 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,201 2,045 2,156 Net cash used in investing activities (3,647 ) (859 ) 2,788 Net cash used in financing activities (577 ) (1,175 ) (598 ) The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2012 and 2011is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis, which contributed net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $3.4 billion in 2012 and $2.2 billion in 2011. Our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report provide information about the components of net income and differences between net income and net cash provided by operating activities. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. Net cash used in investing activities included payments for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software of $2.9 billion in 2012, including $1.9 billion for Qwest and Savvis' capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities included payments for property, plant and equipment and capitalized software of $2.4 billion in 2011, including $1.3 billion for Qwest and Savvis' post-acquisition capital expenditures, compared to $864 million in 2010. In addition, we paid $1.7 billion, net of $61 million cash received, for the acquisition of Savvis on July 15, 2011. Cash used in investing activities in 2011 was partially offset by cash acquired through the April 1, 2011 acquisition of Qwest of $419 million, net of $5 million cash paid. 77 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities increased in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to a net long-term debt pay down of $1.8 billion in 2012 versus a net long-term debt issuance of $1.1 billion in 2011, a $2.9 billion difference. This difference was primarily due to the $2 billion senior notes issued in June 2011to finance the Savvis acquisition. Also contributing was a $255 million increase in dividends paid attributable to an increase in the average number of shares outstanding. These increases in cash used in financing activities were partially offset by a $631 million increase in net borrowings under our Credit Facility. Net cash used in financing activities decreased in 2011 primarily due to us receiving net debt proceeds in excess of payments of approximately $1.1 billion in 2011 versus debt payments of $500 million in 2010. In addition, our cash dividends paid increased $677 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily as a result of the issuance of 308 million common shares in connection with our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis in 2011. On October 26, 2012, QCII redeemed all $550 million of its 8.00% Notes due 2015, which resulted in a gain of $15 million. On August 29, 2012, certain subsidiaries of CenturyLink paid $29 million and $30 million, respectively, to retire its outstanding Rural Utilities Service and Rural Telephone Bank debt. On August 15, 2012, CenturyLink paid at maturity the $318 million principal amount of its 7.875% Notes. On July 20, 2012, QC redeemed all $484 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2023, which resulted in an immaterial loss. On June 25, 2012, QC issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Notes due 2052 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $387 million. The Notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after July 1, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest. On May 17, 2012, QCII redeemed $500 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. On April 23, 2012, Embarq redeemed the remaining $200 million of its 6.738% Notes due 2013, which resulted in an immaterial loss. On April 18, 2012, CenturyLink entered into a term loan in the amount of $440 million with CoBank and several other Farm Credit System banks. This term loan is payable in 29 consecutive quarterly installments of $5.5 million in principal plus interest through April 18, 2019, when the balance will be due. We have the option of paying monthly interest based upon either London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or the base rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus an applicable margin between 1.50% to 2.50% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.50% to 1.50% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. Our term loan is guaranteed by two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Embarq and Qwest Communications International Inc ("QCII"), and one of QCII's wholly-owned subsidiaries. The remaining terms and conditions of our term loan are substantially similar to those set forth in our Credit Facility (as described further in Note 4Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report). On April 18, 2012, QC completed a cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $811 million of 8.375% Notes due 2016 and its $400 million of 7.625% Notes due 2015. With respect to its 8.375% Notes due 2016, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $575 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 71%, for $722 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.625% Notes due 2015, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $308 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 77%, for $369 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of these tender offers resulted in a loss of $46 million. 78 Table of Contents On April 2, 2012, QC issued $525 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Notes due 2052 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $508 million. The Notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after April 1, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest. On April 2, 2012, Embarq completed a cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $528 million of 6.738% Notes due 2013 and its $2.0 billion of 7.082% Notes due 2016. With respect to its 6.738% Notes due 2013, Embarq received and accepted tenders of approximately $328 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 62%, for $360 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.082% Notes due 2016, Embarq received and accepted tenders of approximately $816 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 41%, for $944 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of these tender offers resulted in a loss of $144 million. On March 12, 2012, CenturyLink issued (i) $650 million aggregate principal amount of 7.65% Senior Notes due 2042 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts, of approximately $644 million and (ii) $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.80% Senior Notes due 2022 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts, of approximately $1.389 billion. The Notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed at any time on the terms and conditions specified therein. On March 1, 2012, QCII redeemed $800 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. Certain Matters Related to Acquisitions Qwest's pre-existing debt obligations consisted primarily of debt securities issued by QCII and two of its subsidiaries while Savvis' remaining long-term debt obligations consist primarily of capital leases, all of which are now included in our consolidated debt balances. The indentures governing Qwest's debt securities contain customary covenants that restrict the ability of Qwest or its subsidiaries from making certain payments and investments, granting liens and selling or transferring assets. Based on current circumstances, we do not anticipate that these covenants will significantly restrict our ability to manage cash balances or transfer cash between entities within our consolidated group of companies as needed. In accounting for the Qwest acquisition, we recorded Qwest's debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $12.292 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value of Qwest's debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $693 million, which we recorded as a premium. 79 Table of Contents The table below summarizes the portions of this premium recognized as a reduction to interest expense or extinguished during the periods indicated: Amortized $ 86 154 240 Extinguished (1) 177 58 235 Total premiums recognized $ 263 212 475 (1) See "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements" for more information The remaining premium of $218 million as of December 31, 2012 will reduce interest expense in future periods, unless otherwise extinguished. Net Operating Loss Carryforwards We are currently using federal NOLs to offset a portion of our federal taxable income. We expect to deplete a significant portion of these NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes by 2014, and substantially all of these tax benefits by 2015. Once our NOLs are fully utilized, we expect that the amounts of our cash flows dedicated to the payment of federal taxes will increase substantially. The amounts of those payments will depend upon many factors, including future earnings, tax law changes and future tax circumstances. For additional information, see "Risk FactorsRisks Related to our Recent Acquisitions" appearing in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Other Matters CenturyLink has cash management arrangements with certain of its principal subsidiaries, in which substantial portions of the subsidiaries' cash is regularly advanced to CenturyLink. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, these advances are eliminated as intercompany transactions. Although CenturyLink periodically repays these advances to fund the subsidiaries' cash requirements throughout the year, at any given point in time we may owe a substantial sum to our subsidiaries under these advances, which are not recognized on our consolidated balance sheets. In connection with reclassifying certain wireless spectrum assets as assets held for sale, during the second quarter of 2012 we reclassified $154 million from "other intangible assets, net" to "current assetsother." For more information on the sale of these assets, see "BusinessOperationsProducts and ServicesAdditional Information" in Item 1 of this report. We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. See Note 15Commitment and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for the current status of such legal proceedings, including matters involving Qwest. Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations and fluctuations in certain foreign currencies. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. 80 Table of Contents From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of December 31, 2012, we had no such instruments outstanding. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and implements strategies to manage the exposure. There were no material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates for the year ended December 31, 2012, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, we have approximately $19.9 billion (excluding capital lease and other obligations with a carrying amount of $734 million) of long-term debt outstanding, 89.9% of which bears interest at fixed rates and is therefore not exposed to interest rate risk. We had $2 billion floating rate debt exposed to changes in the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR). A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in LIBOR relative to this debt would decrease our annual pre-tax earnings by $20 million. With our acquisition of Savvis in July 2011, we have become exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the foreign currencies in which its international operations are denominated, primarily the Euro, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Japanese Yen and the Singapore Dollar. As a consolidated entity, the percentage of revenues generated and costs incurred that are denominated in these currencies are immaterial. We use a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to this foreign currency risk, measuring the change in financial position arising from hypothetical 10% change in the exchange rates of these currencies, relative to the U.S. Dollar with all other variables held constant. The aggregate potential change in the fair value of assets resulting from a hypothetical 10% change in these exchange rates was $18 million at December 31, 2012. Certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the computation of exposures to market risks. Actual values may differ materially from those presented above if market conditions vary from the assumptions used in the analyses performed. These analyses only incorporate the risk exposures that existed at December 31, 2012. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements, (ii) disclosed in Note 15Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, or in the Future Contractual Obligations table included in this Item 7 above or (iii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" above.