Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained in this Form 10-Q which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). A forward-looking statement may contain words such as anticipates, believes, can, can impact, could, continue, estimates, expects, intends, may, ongoing, plans, potential, projects, should, will, will continue to be, would, or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology regarding beliefs, plans, expectations or intentions regarding the future. Forward-looking statements include statements such as: our expectations regarding demand for our products, including continued trends in end-user behavior and technological advancements that may drive such demand; our belief that we are well positioned to benefit from certain industry trends and advancements, and our expectations of the role we will play in those advancements; our plans for growth and innovation opportunities; our corporate and financial reporting structure; expectations regarding our expenses and cost structure; financial projections and expectations, including profitability of certain business units, plans to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, the effects of seasonality on certain business units, continued reliance on key customers for a significant portion of our revenue, future sources of revenue, competition and pricing pressures, the future impact of certain accounting pronouncements and our estimation of the potential impact and materiality of litigation; our expectations related to our net revenue mix, including net revenue growth opportunities; our plans for continued development, use and protection of our intellectual property; our strategies for achieving our current business objectives, including related risks and uncertainties; our plans or expectations relating to investments, acquisitions, partnerships and other strategic opportunities; our research and development plans and the expected impact of such plans on our financial performance; our expectations related to our products, including costs associated with the development of new products, product yields, quality and other issues; and market risks facing our business and our market-risk management strategies. Management cautions that forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks and uncertainties including those set forth in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and subsequent facts or circumstances may contradict, obviate, undermine or otherwise fail to support or substantiate such statements. Except as required by law, we are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. Separation from JDSU Lumentum Holdings Inc. (we, us and Lumentum) was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of JDS Uniphase Corporation (JDSU) on February 10, 2015 and comprises the former communications and commercial optical products (CCOP) segment and WaveReady product lines of JDSU. Our Registration Statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on July 16, 2015. On August 1, 2015, we became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution by JDSU to its stockholders of 80.1% of our outstanding common stock (the Separation). Each JDSU stockholder of record as of the close of business on July 27, 2015 received one share of Lumentum common stock for every five shares of JDSU common stock held on the record date. JDSU was renamed Viavi Solutions Inc. (Viavi) in connection with the Separation and retained ownership of 19.9% of Lumentums outstanding shares. Our common stock began trading regular-way under the ticker LITE on the NASDAQ stock market on August 4, 2015. 22 On July 31, 2015, prior to the Separation, Viavi transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of the co mmunications and commercial optical products (CCOP) segment and WaveReady product lines to Lumentum (the Capitalization). Combined financial statements for periods prior to the Capitalization were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from V iavis consolidated financial statements and accounting records. For the three months ended September 26, 2015, expenses were allocated to us using estimates that we consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benef its received by us. The consolidated financial statements include certain assets and liabilities that were historically held at the Viavi level but which were transferred to us in the Capitalization. Viavis debt and related interest expense were not attributed or allocated to us for the periods presented since we are not the legal obligor of the debt and Viavis borrowings were not directly attributable to us. Certain intercompany transactions between us and Viavi were considered to be effectively settled in the consolidated financial statements at the time the transactions were recorded. The total net effect of the settlement of these intercompany transactions is reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows as a financing activity and on the consolidated balance sheets as Viavi net investment. The consolidated statements of operations includes our direct expenses for cost of sales, R&D, sales and marketing, and administration as well as allocations of expenses arising from shared services and infrastructure provided by Viavi to us through the Separation. These allocated expenses include costs of information technology, human resources, accounting, legal, real estate and facilities, corporate marketing, insurance, treasury and other corporate and infrastructure services. In addition, other costs allocated to us include restructuring and stock-based compensation related to Viavis corporate and shared services employees as well as other public company costs. These expenses were allocated to us using estimates that we consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by our business. The allocation methods include revenue, headcount, square footage, actual consumption and usage of services and others. Our Industries and Developments We are an industry leading provider of optical and photonic products by revenue and market share addressing a range of end-market applications including Datacom and Telecom networking and commercial lasers for manufacturing, inspection and life-science applications. We are using our core optical and photonic technology and our volume manufacturing capability to expand into attractive emerging markets that benefit from advantages that optical or photonics-based solutions provide, including 3-D sensing for consumer electronics and diode light sources for a variety of consumer and industrial applications. We operate in two reportable segments: Optical Communications (OpComms) Commercial Lasers (Lasers) Our operations for these reportable segments are not distinct and separate; rather this segmentation reflects different end-markets with their own unique dynamics. OpComms Our OpComms products address the following markets: Telecom, Datacom and Consumer and Industrial. Our OpComms products include a wide range of components, modules and subsystems to support and maintain customers in our two primary markets: Telecom and Datacom. The Telecom market includes carrier networks for access (local), metro (intracity), long-haul (city-to-city and worldwide) and submarine (undersea) networks. The Datacom market addresses enterprise, cloud and data center applications, including storage-access networks (SANs), local-area networks (LANs) and Ethernet wide-area networks (WANs). These products enable the transmission and transport of video, audio and text data over high-capacity fiber-optic cables. We maintain leading positions in the fastest-growing OpComms markets, including reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexers (ROADMs), tunable 10-gigabit small form-factor pluggable transceivers and tunable small form-factor pluggables. Our growing portfolio of pluggable transceivers supports LAN/SAN needs and the cloud for customers building proprietary data center networks. In the Consumer and Industrial markets, our OpComms products include our light source product which is integrated into 3-D sensing platforms being used in applications for gaming, computing, mobile devices and home entertainment. These systems simplify the way people interact with technology by enabling the use of natural body gestures, like the wave of a hand, to control a product or application. Emerging applications for this technology include in-cabin tracking in cars, self-navigating robotics and drones in industrial applications and 3-D capture of objects coupled with 3-D printing. 23 Our OpComms customers include Alcatel-Lucent International, Ciena Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Coriant GmbH, Fujitsu Network Communications, Inc., Google Inc., Huawei Technologies C o Ltd., Microsoft Corporation, and Nokia Networks. Lasers Our Lasers products serve our customers in markets and applications such as manufacturing, biotechnology, graphics and imaging, remote sensing, and precision machining such as drilling in printed circuit boards, wafer singulation and solar cell scribing. Our Lasers products are used in a variety of original equipment manufacturer (OEM) applications. OEM applications use our products including diode-pumped solid-state, fiber, diode, direct-diode and gas lasers such as argon-ion and helium-neon lasers. Diode-pumped solid-state and fiber lasers provide excellent beam quality, low noise and exceptional reliability and are used in biotechnology, graphics and imaging, remote sensing, materials processing and precision machining applications. Diode and direct-diode lasers address a wide variety of applications, including laser pumping, thermal exposure, illumination, ophthalmology, image recording, printing, plastic welding and selective soldering. Gas lasers such as argon-ion and helium-neon lasers provide a stable, low-cost and reliable solution over a wide range of operating conditions, making them well suited for complex, high-resolution OEM applications such as flow cytometry, DNA sequencing, graphics and imaging and semiconductor inspection. During the third quarter of fiscal 2014, we acquired Time-Bandwidth, a provider of high-powered and ultrafast lasers for the industrial and scientific markets. Manufacturers use high-power, ultrafast lasers to create micro parts for consumer electronics and to process semiconductor chips. Use of ultrafast lasers for micromachining applications is being driven primarily by the increasing use of consumer electronics and connected devices globally. Our Lasers customers include Amada Co., Ltd., ASML Holding N.V., Beckman Coulter, Inc., Becton, Dickinson and Company, DISCO Corporation, Electro Scientific Industries, Inc., EO Technics Co., Ltd. and KLA-Tencor Corporation. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In the opinion of Management, the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q contain all normal and recurring adjustments necessary to state fairly our consolidated balance sheets, and consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income as of September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014; and consolidated statements of operations, and consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended September 26, 2015. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, allocation methods and allocated expenses from Viavi, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, restructuring, warranty and accounting for income taxes. For a description of the critical accounting policies that affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, refer to Item 7 on Managements Discussion and Analysis in our Amendment No. 1 to Fiscal 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Note 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q regarding the effect of certain recent accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements. 24 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The results of operations for the periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for future periods or for the full fiscal year. The following table summarizes selected Consolidated Statements of Operations items as a percentage of net revenue: Three Months Ended September 26, 2015 September 27, 2014 Segment net revenue: OpComms 83.3 % 80.8 % Lasers 16.7 19.2 Net revenue 100.0 100.0 Cost of sales 67.7 67.0 Amortization of acquired technologies 0.1 0.1 Gross profit 31.5 32.1 Operating expenses: Research and development 16.2 16.0 Selling, general and administrative 15.9 12.9 Restructuring and related charges 0.5 0.8 Total operating expenses 32.6 29.7 (Loss) income from operations (1.2 ) 2.3 Interest and other income (expense), net * (0.1 ) Unrealized gain on derivative liability 1.0 (Loss) income before taxes (0.2 ) 2.2 (Benefit) provision from income taxes (0.1 ) 0.2 Net (loss) income (0.1 )% 2.0 % * Amount represents less than 0.1% Financial Data for the three months ended September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014 The following table summarizes selected Consolidated Statement of Operations items ( in millions, except for percentages ): Three Months Ended September 26, 2015 September 27, 2014 Change Percentage Change Segment net revenue: OpComms $ 177.0 $ 176.9 $ 0.1 0.1 % Lasers 35.6 42.1 (6.5 ) (15.4 ) Net revenue $ 212.6 $ 219.0 $ (6.4 ) (2.9 )% Gross profit $ 66.9 $ 70.3 $ (3.4 ) (4.8 )% Gross margin 31.5 % 32.1 % Research and development 34.4 35.0 (0.6 ) (1.7 )% Percentage of net revenue 16.2 % 16.0 % Selling, general and administrative 34.0 28.3 5.7 20.1 % Percentage of net revenue 16.0 % 12.9 % Restructuring and related charges 1.0 1.8 (0.8 ) (44.4 )% Percentage of net revenue 0.5 % 0.8 % Net Revenue Net revenue decreased by $6.4 million, or 2.9%, during the three months ended September 26, 2015 compared to the same period a year ago. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net revenue from our Lasers segment. 25 OpComms net revenue increased $0.1 million, or 0.1%, during the three months ended September 26, 2015 compared to the same period a year ago. This was driven by an increase of $5.5 million in revenue from products for the datacom market partially offset by a decrease of $2.7 million in revenue from products for the telecom market and a decrease of $2.6 million from our products addressing the Consumer and Industrial markets primarily due to decreased revenue from industrial diode laser products. Lasers net revenue decreased $6.5 million, or 15.4%, during the three months ended September 26, 2015 compared to the same period a year ago. This decrease was primarily due to decreased revenue from solid-state lasers driven by lower market demand. Revenue by Region We operate in three geographic regions: Americas, Asia-Pacific and EMEA. Net revenue is assigned to the geographic region and country where our product is initially shipped. However, this location may differ from the location of their end customers. The following table presents net revenue by the three geographic regions we operate in and net revenue from countries that exceeded 10% of our total net revenue ( in millions, except for percentages ): Three Months Ended September 26, 2015 September 27, 2014 Net revenue: Americas: United States $ 34.5 16.2 % $ 42.4 19.4 % Mexico 41.8 19.7 26.5 12.1 Other Americas 7.8 3.7 6.3 2.9 Total Americas $ 84.1 39.6 % $ 75.2 34.3 % Asia-Pacific: Hong Kong $ 30.8 14.5 % $ 28.7 13.1 % Japan 25.0 11.8 35.9 16.4 Other Asia-Pacific 40.0 18.8 41.1 18.8 Total Asia-Pacific $ 95.8 45.1 % $ 105.7 48.3 % EMEA $ 32.7 15.4 % $ 38.1 17.4 % Total net revenue $ 212.6 $ 219.0 During the three months ended September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014, net revenue from customers outside the United States, based on customer shipping location, represented 83.8% and 80.6% of net revenue, respectively. Our net revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, including our net revenue from customers outside the United States as presented above. We expect revenue from customers outside of the United States to continue to be an important part of our overall net revenue and an increasing focus for net revenue growth opportunities. Gross Margin and Segment Gross Margin The following table summarizes segment gross margin and combined gross margin for the three months ended September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014 ( in millions, except for percentages ): Gross Profit Gross Margin Three Months Ended Three Months Ended September 26, 2015 September 27, 2014 September 26, 2015 September 27, 2014 OpComms $ 55.6 $ 52.8 31.4 % 29.8 % Lasers 14.2 21.3 39.9 % 50.6 % Segment total $ 69.8 $ 74.1 32.8 % 33.8 % Unallocated corporate items (1) (2.9 ) (3.8 ) Total $ 66.9 $ 70.3 31.5 % 32.1 % (1) The unallocated corporate items for the periods presented include the effects of amortization of acquired developed technology, intangible assets, share-based compensation and certain other charges related to non-recurring activities. We do not allocate 26 these items to the gross margin for each segment because Management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. Gross Margin Gross margin decreased 0.6% from 32.1% in the same period a year ago to 31.5% in the three months ended September 26, 2015. This decrease was primarily due to decreases in Lasers gross margins, partially offset by an increase in OpComms gross margins. We sell products in certain markets that are consolidating, undergoing product, architectural and business model transitions, have high customer concentrations, are highly competitive (increasingly due to Asia-Pacific-based competition), are price sensitive and/or are affected by customer seasonal and mix variant buying patterns. We expect these factors to continue to result in variability of our gross margin. Segment Gross Margin OpComms OpComms gross margin increased 1.6% to 31.4% in the three months ended September 26, 2015 from 29.8% in the same period a year ago. This increase was primarily due to cost reductions driven by improved pricing terms and favorable product mix. Lasers Lasers gross margin decreased 10.7% to 39.9% in the three months ended September 26, 2015 from 50.6% in the same period a year ago. This decrease was primarily due to low gross margin products comprising a larger portion of our overall product mix for lasers in the Commercial market. Research and Development (R&D) R&D expense decreased $0.6 million, or 1.7%, for the three months ended September 26, 2015 compared to the same period a year ago. The decrease of $0.6 million was primarily due to lower R&D investment. We believe that continuing our investments in R&D is critical to attaining our strategic objectives. We plan to continue to invest in R&D and new products that we believe will further differentiate us in the marketplace and expect our investment to increase in absolute dollars in future quarters. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) SG&A expense increased by $5.7 million, or 20.1%, in the three months ended September 26, 2015 compared to the same period a year ago. This was primarily related to Viavis SG&A allocation of $5.1 million of Separation related costs. We intend to continue to focus on reducing our SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenue. However, we may experience certain non-core expenses in the future, such as mergers and acquisitions-related expenses and litigation expenses, which could increase our SG&A expenses and potentially impact our profitability expectations in any particular quarter. Restructuring and Related Charges Beginning in fiscal Q4 2014, we consolidated our operations in order to drive operational efficiencies and align our business with market conditions. As of September 26, 2015, our total restructuring accrual was $5.1 million. During the three months ended September 26, 2015, we recorded $0.9 million in restructuring. These charges are primarily due to a previously announced restructuring plan for our Bloomfield, Connecticut site for severance and benefits. Refer to Note 9. Restructuring and Related Charges to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q for more information. 27 During the thr ee months ended September 27, 2014, we recorded $1.8 million in restructuring and related charges. The charges are primarily the result of a plan approved by Management in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 to optimize operations and gain efficiencies in the CCOP segment by closing the Robbinsville, New Jersey site and consolidating roles and responsibilities across North America. Our Ottawa lease obligation is net of sublease income of approximately $1.0 million. Our ability to generate sublease income, as well as our ability to terminate lease obligations and recognize the anticipated related savings, is highly dependent upon economic conditions, particularly commercial real estate market conditions in certain geographies, at the time we negotiate the lease termination and sublease arrangements with third parties, as well as the performances by such third parties of their respective obligations. While the amount we have accrued represents the best estimate of the remaining obligations we expect to incur in connection with these plans, estimates are subject to change. Routine adjustments may be required in the future as conditions and facts change through the implementation period. If macroeconomic conditions decline, particularly as they pertain to the commercial real estate market, or if, for any reason, tenants under subleases fail to perform their obligations, we may be required to reduce estimated future sublease income and adjust the estimated amounts of future settlement agreements, and accordingly, increase estimated costs to exit certain facilities. Amounts related to the lease expense, net of anticipated sublease proceeds, will be paid over the respective lease terms through the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Unrealized Gain on Derivative Liability The unrealized gain on the derivative liability is to adjust the value of the derivative liability to fair value at September 26, 2015. For the three months ended September 26, 2015 the unrealized gain was $2.2 million. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net is comprised substantially of gains and losses associated with the re-measurement of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, an allocation from Viavi of gains and losses on the foreign currency forward contracts utilized in Viavis balance sheet hedging program, as well as other non-recurring transactions outside of the normal course of business. Interest and other income (expense), net was $(0.2) million during the three months ended September 26, 2015 as compared to $(0.3) million during the same period a year ago. Benefit for Income Taxes We recorded a tax benefit of $0.3 million for the three months ended September 26, 2015, and a tax provision of $0.6 million for the three months ended September 27, 2014. The quarterly provision for income taxes is based on the estimated annual effective tax rate, plus any discrete items for the respective year. The benefit for income taxes for the three months ended September 26, 2015 and the provision for the three months ended September 27, 2014 were primarily related to tax in foreign jurisdictions. The difference between the provision for income taxes that would be derived by applying the statutory rate to our income (loss) before income taxes and the provision for income taxes recorded was primarily attributable to the difference in foreign tax rates, utilization of US tax attributes that were subject to a full valuation allowance, and certain Canadian tax incentives. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at September 26, 2015, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow over the next five years ( in millions ): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years More than 5 years Contractual Obligations Asset retirement obligationsexpected cash payments $ 2.6 $ 0.3 $ 0.6 $ 0.5 $ 1.2 Purchase obligations (1) 151.8 149.2 2.6 Operating lease obligations (1) 24.9 4.6 10.3 4.9 5.1 Pension and post-retirement benefit payments 2.1 0.1 0.2 1.8 Total $ 181.4 $ 154.1 $ 13.6 $ 5.6 $ 8.1 28 (1) Refer to Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q for more information. As of September 26, 2015, other current liabilities and other non-current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets includes $0.5 million for each period, respectively, for restructuring and related activities in connection with our operating lease obligations disclosed above. Purchase obligations represent legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and other commitments made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements. Of the $151.8 million of purchase obligations as of September 26, 2015, $85.6 million are related to inventory and the other $66.2 million are non-inventory items of which $15.0 million is committed to Viavi. As of September 26, 2015, our other non-current liabilities primarily relate to asset retirement obligations and pension which are presented in various lines in the preceding table. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as such term is defined in rules promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 26, 2015 and June 27, 2015, our cash and cash equivalents of $142.1 million and $14.5 million, respectively, were held predominantly in the United States, Cayman Islands, Canada, China and Japan. Although the cash generated in the United States from future operations is expected to cover our normal operating requirements, a substantial amount of additional cash could be required for other purposes, such as dividends that may be declared, future stock repurchase programs or acquisitions. Our intent is to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside the United States and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our domestic operations. However, if in the future, we encounter a significant need for liquidity domestically or at a particular location that we cannot fulfill through borrowings, equity offerings, or other internal or external sources, we may determine that cash repatriations are necessary. Repatriation could result in additional material U.S. federal and state income tax payments in future years. Such adverse consequences would occur, for example, if the transfer of cash into the United States is taxed and no foreign tax credit is available to offset the U.S. tax liability, resulting in higher taxes. These factors may cause us to have an overall tax rate higher than other companies or higher than our tax rates have been in the past. As of September 26, 2015, our consolidated balance of cash and cash equivalents increased by $127.6 million, to $142.1 million from $14.5 million as of June 27, 2015. The increase in cash and cash equivalents was a result of the initial capitalization from Viavi. Operating Cash Flow Cash provided by operating activities was $10.6 million during the three months ended September 26, 2015, primarily resulting from $0.2 million of net loss and $17.5 million of non-cash items such as depreciation, stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles and unrealized gain on derivative liability, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $6.7 million. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities related primarily to a decrease in accounts receivable of $8.6 million, an increase in deferred taxes of $0.2 million, a decrease in prepayments other current and non-currents assets of $6.4 million, an increase in accounts payable of $8.3 million, a decrease in inventories of $5.4 million, and an increase in accrued payroll and related expenses, accrued expenses and other current and non-current liabilities of $5.2 million. Cash provided by operating activities was $0.4 million during the three months ended September 27, 2014, primarily resulting from $4.3 million of net income and $17.2 million of non-cash items such as depreciation, stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangibles, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $21.1 million. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities related primarily to a decrease in accounts receivable of $12.4 million, and an increase in accounts payable of $12.1 million, a decrease in other current and non-currents assets of $4.6 million, a decrease in income taxes payable of $14.7 million, an increase in deferred tax of $1.9 million, and an increase in inventories of $1.6 million and a decrease in accrued payroll and related expenses, accrued expenses and other current and non-current liabilities of $5.0 million. 29 Investing Cash Flow Cash used in investing activities was for capital expenditures of $13.9 million and $13.8 million during the three months ended September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014, respectively. Financing Cash Flow Cash provided by financing activities was $130.7 million during the three months ended September 26, 2015 resulting primarily from net transfers from Viavi. Cash provided by financing activities was $9.0 million during the three months ended September 27, 2014 resulting primarily from net transfers from Viavi. Liquidity and Capital Resources Requirement We believe that the cash on hand of $142.6 million as of September 26, 2015, combined with expected cash flows from our operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity and capital spending requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, there are a number of factors that could positively or negatively impact our liquidity position, including: global economic conditions which affect demand for our products and services and impact the financial stability of our suppliers and customers; changes in accounts receivable, inventory or other operating assets and liabilities which affect our working capital; increase in capital expenditures to support the revenue growth opportunity of our business; the tendency of customers to delay payments or to negotiate favorable payment terms to manage their own liquidity positions; timing of payments to our suppliers; factoring or sale of accounts receivable; volatility in fixed income and credit which impact the liquidity and valuation of our investment portfolios; volatility in foreign exchange markets which impacts our financial results; possible investments or acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies; issuance of debt or equity securities; and potential funding of pension liabilities either voluntarily or as required by law or regulation.