Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 14. Restructuring and Related Charges in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges. Research and Development During fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , we incurred R&D expenses of $ 184.6 million , $156.8 million, and $148.3 million, respectively. The number of employees engaged in R&D was approximately 790 as of June 29, 2019 , 587 as of June 30, 2018 and 598 as of July 1, 2017 . We devote substantial resources to R&D for the development of new and enhanced products to serve our markets. Once the design of a product is complete, our engineering efforts shift to enhancing both product performance and our ability to manufacture it in greater volume and at lower cost. In our OpComms segment , we are maintaining our capability to provide products throughout the network, while focusing on several important sub-segments. We continue to maintain strong investments in Telecom components and modules such as ROADMs and tunable devices needed for long-haul and metro markets, as well as high performance DML, EML, and VCSEL chips for Datacom transceivers. We are also responding to our customers requests for higher levels of integration, including the integration of optics, electronics and software in our modules, subsystems and circuit packs. We are providing optical technology for 3D sensing systems that simplify the way that people interact with technology. These solutions are initially being used in computing, mobile, and industrial applications, including automotive applications. In our Lasers segment, we continue to develop new product offerings in both solid-state and fiber lasers that take advantage of technologies and components we develop. These products are targeted at serving customers engaging in biotechnology, graphics and imaging, remote sensing, and materials processing and precision micromachining markets. Manufacturing Our significant manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Thailand, China, the United Kingdom, Slovenia, Italy, Japan, and Switzerland. In our fiscal fourth quarter of 2019, we moved into our Slovenia factory, which we expect to be fully operational by the fiscal third quarter of 2020. In fiscal 2019, we announced our plan to discontinue development and manufacturing of Lithium Niobate modulators, and we plan to wind down these operations in San Donato, Italy during fiscal year 2020. Development and manufacturing will also be discontinued in our San Jose, California manufacturing locations within the next few quarters in order to facilitate our customers transition to new products. We expect our Indium Phosphide photonic integrated circuits will replace Lithium Niobate modulators over time. In fiscal 2019, we also announced our plan to discontinue the development and manufacturing of future Datacom transceiver products which impacted our Milpitas and Shenzhen Datacom module teams. While we expect strong growth in Datacom volumes in the future, the market at the transceiver level is gross margin challenged due to extreme competition. Following the Oclaro acquisition, we have a differentiated leadership position across a range of photonic chips on which the Datacom, wireless, and access markets critically rely. Our significant contract manufacturing partners are located primarily in Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia. We rely on the capabilities of our contract manufactures to procure components and manage the inventory in these locations. During fiscal 2018, we entered into a Transition Services Agreement (TSA) with one of our contract manufacturers to wind down the production of our products at their facility in China and to facilitate an orderly transition of manufacturing to our manufacturing facility in Thailand, including the purchase of the manufacturing equipment. Under the terms of the TSA, we were required to pay $5.3 million in cash upon completion of certain milestones related to the purchase of equipment. During the year ended June 29, 2019 , we paid $1.3 million and accrued $4.0 million for the manufacturing equipment acquired under this TSA. The equipment acquired is included in machinery and equipment within property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance 9 Table of Contents sheet as of June 29, 2019 . We were also required to share cost of retention and severance, and to reimburse for certain other direct and indirect costs incurred by our contract manufacturer for transition services provided. These costs were expensed as incurred. We have now fully exited from operations with this contract manufacturer. Please refer to Note 8. Asset Acquisition in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials We use various suppliers and contract manufacturers to supply parts and components for the manufacture and support of multiple product lines. Although our intention is to establish at least two sources of supply for materials whenever possible, for certain components we have sole or limited source supply arrangements. We may not be able to procure these components from alternative sources at acceptable prices and quality within a reasonable time, or at all; therefore, the risk of loss or interruption of such arrangements could impact our ability to deliver certain products on a timely basis. Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products include patents, trade secrets and trademarks. We do not intend to broadly license our intellectual property rights unless we can obtain adequate consideration or enter into acceptable patent cross-license agreements. As of June 29, 2019 , we owned 1,063 U.S. patents and 798 foreign patents with expiration dates ranging from July 2019 through June 2038, and had 490 patent applications pending throughout the world. Seasonality Our revenue may be influenced on a quarter to quarter basis by customer demand patterns and new product introductions. Some of our products may be incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Backlog Backlog consists of purchase orders for products for which we have assigned shipment dates. As of June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 , our backlog was $ 453.1 million and $370.6 million , respectively. Due to possible changes in product delivery schedules and cancellation of product orders, and because our sales often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual revenue or the level of orders for any succeeding period. A portion of our revenue arises from vendor-managed inventory arrangements where the timing and volume of customer utilization is difficult to predict. Employees As of June 29, 2019 , we employed approximately 5,161 full-time employees, including approximately 3,748 employees in manufacturing, 790 employees in R&D and 623 employees in SG&A. Outside of the United States, our business is subject to labor laws that differ from those in the United States. We follow the statutory requirements of those countries where we operate. We consider our employee relations to be good. Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the United States, even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future. In connection with the Separation, we agreed to indemnify Viavi for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred to us from Viavi, to the extent the resulting issues primarily related to our business. We have not been presented with any claims to date. 10 Table of Contents International Operations During fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , net revenue from customers outside the United States based on the geographic region and country where our product is initially shipped, represented 93.6%, 90.8% and 85.2% of net revenue, respectively. In certain circumstances customers may request shipment of our products to a contract manufacturer in one country, which may differ from the location of their end customers. During fiscal 2019 , our net revenue from Hong Kong, Mexico, South Korea, and Japan represented 24.8%, 13.7%, 10.4%, and 11.2% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. During fiscal 2018, our net revenue from Hong Kong, Mexico, South Korea, and Japan represented 14.7%, 11.7%, 11.7%, and 15.6% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. During fiscal 2017, our net revenue from Hong Kong, Mexico, and Japan represented 22.6%, 18.5% and 9.9% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. Our net revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, including our net revenue from customers outside the United States based on customer shipment locations as presented above. As of June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 , long-lived assets, namely our net property, plant and equipment, located outside of the United States comprised 64.0% and 68.2% of our total property, plant and equipment, net, respectively. As of June 29, 2019 , 7.7% and 36.3% of our net property, plant and equipment were located in China and Thailand, respectively. As of June 30, 2018 , 22.8% and 35.0% of our net property, plant and equipment were located in China and Thailand, respectively. Please refer to Note 20. Operating Segments and Geographic Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Available Information Our website is located at www.lumentum.com, and our investor relations website is located at www.investor.lumentum.com. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings at www.sec.gov. Investors and others should note that we routinely use the Investors section of our website to announce material information to investors and the marketplace. While not all of the information that the Company posts on its corporate website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. Accordingly, the Company encourages investors, the media and others interested in the Company to review the information that it shares on www.lumentum.com. Information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including the following factors that could affect our results of operations, financial condition or stock price. Risks Related to Our Business Changing technology and intense competition require us to continuously innovate while controlling product costs, and our failure to do so may result in decreased revenues and profitability. The markets in which we operate are dynamic and complex, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver both our current product offerings and new products and technologies on time and at acceptable prices to our customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements, continued price pressures and a constantly evolving industry. Historically, these pricing pressures have led to a continued decline of average selling prices across our business. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and the accurate prediction of technology and market trends. The introduction of new products also often requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, the benefit of which may not be realized if we are not successful in the production of such products or if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of new product introductions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. We also cannot assure you that potential markets for our new products will materialize on the timelines we anticipate, or at all, or that our technology will meet our customers specifications. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, deployment and market acceptance of new and enhanced features and products that meet our customers current and future needs. The market for optical communications products in particular has matured over time and these products have increasingly become subject to commoditization. Both legacy competitors as well as new entrants, predominantly Asia-based competitors, have intensified market competition in recent years leading to pricing pressure. To preserve our revenues and product margin structures, we remain reliant on an integrated customer and market approach that anticipates end customer needs as Telecom and Datacom requirements evolve. We also must continue to develop more advanced, differentiated products that command a premium with customers, while conversely continuing to focus on streamlining product costs for established legacy products. If we fail to continue to develop enhanced or new products, or over time are unable to adjust our cost structure to continue to competitively price more mature products, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales; and the majority of our customers do not have contractual purchase commitments. We have consistently relied on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales and in certain of our markets, such as 3D sensing and commercial lasers, this customer concentration is particularly acute. We expect that this customer concentration will continue in the future and we expect that our growth prospects will continue to be concentrated in a small number of customers. Many of our customers purchase products under purchase orders or under contracts that do not contain volume purchase commitments. Some customers provide us with their expected forecasts for our products several months in advance, but these customers may decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place, including on short notice, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a limited number of large customers. In addition, changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased or timing of purchases) of our key customers, or any real or perceived quality issues related to the products that we sell to such customers, could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. There are also continuing trade tensions with the U.S. and countries in Asia, which could materially impact our sales to key customers in these regions. Further, we may be required to purchase raw materials, increase production capacity or make other changes to our business to accommodate certain large customers. If forecasted orders do not materialize, we may need to reduce investment in R&D activities, we may fail to optimize our manufacturing capacity, we may incur liabilities with our suppliers for reimbursement of capital expenditures, or we may have excess inventory. In addition, if we incur expenses in response to forecasted demand and do not have a corresponding increase in revenue, our profitability may suffer. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to sell our products to a significant customer has been restricted. On May 16, 2019, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. and 68 designated non-U.S. affiliates (collectively, Huawei) were added to the Entity List of the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce, which imposes limitations on the 12 Table of Contents supply of certain U.S. items and product support to Huawei. Sales to Huawei accounted for 15.2% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2019 . We suspended shipments of all products to Huawei until we were able to review our product portfolio and determine whether our products are subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), and therefore within the scope of the Entity List restrictions. We resumed shipments of certain of our products to Huawei during the quarter ended June 29, 2019 after determining that such products are not subject to the EAR. Notwithstanding our determination that we are able to ship certain products in compliance with applicable law, we believe that under the current regulatory regime, our business with Huawei may be more limited than it was in the past. For example, we may be unable to supply certain other products or be limited or unable to work with Huawei on future product development while Huawei remains on the Entity List, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Huawei may seek to obtain similar or substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions, or to develop similar or substitute products themselves. We also cannot be certain what additional actions the U.S. government may take with respect to Huawei, including changes to the Entity List restrictions, export regulations, tariffs or other trade restrictions. We are unable to predict the duration of the restrictions enacted in May 2019 or of additional actions, which could have a long-term adverse effect on our business. We also manufacture customized products for Huawei, and therefore may be unable to sell certain finished goods inventory to alternative customers, or may be unable to utilize such manufacturing capabilities for products for alternative customers, which may result in excess and obsolete changes in future periods. Continued competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues and market share. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems, components and laser diodes are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international public and private companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. Our competitors include II-VI (which has announced an agreement to acquire Finisar), Acacia Communications (which has entered an agreement to be acquired by Cisco), AMS, Broadcom, Coherent, Finisar, Fujitsu Optical Components, Furukawa Electric, IPG Photonics, MACOM, Mitsubishi Electric, Molex, Neophotonics, nLight, O-net Communications, OSRAM, Sumitomo Electric Industries and Trumpf. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Our competitors may continue to enter markets or gain or retain market share through introduction of new or improved products or with aggressive low pricing strategies that may impact the efficacy of our approach. Additionally, if significant competitors were to merge or consolidate, for example, the pending acquisitions of Finisar by II-VI and Acacia Communications by Cisco, they may be able to offer a lower cost structure through economies of scale that we may be unable to match and which may intensify competition in the various markets. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. The manufacturing of our products may be adversely affected if we are unable to manufacture certain products in our manufacturing facilities or if our contract manufacturers and suppliers fail to meet our production requirements. We manufacture some of our finished good products as well as some of the components that we provide to our contract manufacturers, in our China, Italy, Japan, Thailand, U.K., and San Jose, California manufacturing facilities. For some of the components and finished good products we are the sole manufacturer. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, and issues are often difficult to detect and correct. From time to time we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields in our manufacturing facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of our products. In addition, if we experience problems with our manufacturing facilities, it would be costly and require a long period of time to move the manufacture of these components and finished good products to a different facility or contract manufacturer which could then result in interruptions in supply, and would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain products. For many products, a particular contract manufacturer may be the sole source of the finished good products. We depend on these manufacturers to meet our production and capacity requirements and to provide quality products to our customers. Despite rigorous testing for quality, both by us and the contract manufacturers to whom we sell products, we may receive and ship defective products. We may incur significant costs to correct defective products which could result in the loss of future sales, indemnification costs or costs to replace or repair the defective products, litigation and damage to our reputation and customer relations. Defective products may also cause diversion of management attention from our business and product development efforts. Additionally, our ability to fulfill our customers demand, or the ability of our contract manufacturers to fulfill their obligations, may be affected by natural disasters, changes in legal requirements, labor strikes and other labor unrest and economic, political or other forces that are beyond our control. For example, in the past we experienced a labor strike at one of our contract manufacturers 13 Table of Contents which threatened the contract manufacturers ability to fulfill its product commitments to us and, in turn, our ability to fulfill our obligations to our customers. Further, certain of our contract manufacturers are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with Chinese laws and regulations and U.S. laws, regulations and policies with respect to China, such as those related to import and export policies, tariffs, taxation and intellectual property. Chinese laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and if our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain or retain the requisite legal permits or otherwise to comply with Chinese legal requirements, we may be forced to obtain products from other manufacturers or to make other operational changes, including transferring our manufacturing to another manufacturer or to our own manufacturing facilities. Any such developments could have a material impact on our ability to meet our customers expectations and may materially impact our operating results. The United States has recently imposed tariffs on the import of certain products manufactured in China, and may propose further tariffs in the future, which could increase costs associated with the manufacturing of our products in China, and potentially other countries, and negatively impact our sales levels and profit margins. In addition, for a variety of reasons, including changes in circumstances at our contract manufacturers or regarding our own business strategies, we may choose or be required to transfer the manufacturing of certain products to other manufacturing sites, including to our own manufacturing facilities. For example, we are in the process of transitioning the manufacturing of our products with one of our contract manufacturers in China to our Shenzhen and Thailand manufacturing facilities and to other contract manufacturers. As a result of such transfers, our contract manufacturers may prioritize other customers or otherwise be unable to meet our demand. There also may be delays with the transfer of manufacturing equipment and successfully setting up that equipment at the transfer sites and training new operators. If such transfers are unsuccessful or take a longer period of time than expected, it could result in interruptions in supply and would likely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers are not cancellable which may impact our results of operations if customer forecasts driving these purchase commitments do not materialize and we are unable to sell the products to other customers. Alternatively, our contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our demand which would inhibit our ability to meet our customers demands and maintain or grow our revenues. Furthermore, it could be costly and require a long period of time to move products from one contract manufacturer to another which could result in interruptions in supply and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our products are sourced from suppliers based outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. Uncertainty with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries has recently increased. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of tariffs on imported products, could increase our product and product-related costs or require us to seek alternative suppliers, either of which could result in decreased sales or increased product and product-related costs. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer. Certain of our customers do not purchase products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with certain of our customers. Some of our customers require that our manufacturing lines pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards. We may encounter quality control issues as a result of setting up new manufacturing lines in our facilities, relocating our manufacturing lines or introducing new products to fill production. We may be unable to obtain, or we may experience delays in obtaining, customer qualification of our manufacturing lines. If we introduce new contract manufacturing partners and move any production lines from existing internal or external facilities, the new production lines will likely need to be re-qualified with our customers. Any delays or failure to obtain qualifications would harm our operating results and customer relationships. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials, packages and components, and any failure or delay by these suppliers in meeting our requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase raw materials, packages and components from a limited number of suppliers, who are often small and specialized. Additionally, some of our suppliers are our sole sources for certain materials, equipment and components. We depend on the timely and continued supply and quality of the materials, packages and components that our suppliers supply to us. We have not entered into long-term agreements with many of these suppliers. As a result, these suppliers may stop supplying us materials and equipment at any time. Our business and results of operations have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by this dependency. Specific concerns we periodically encounter with our sole suppliers or limited number of suppliers include receipt of defective parts or contaminated materials, stoppages or delays of supply, insufficient resources to supply our requirements, substitution of more expensive or less reliable materials, increases in the price of supplies, and an inability to obtain reduced pricing from our suppliers in response to competitive pressures. Additionally, supply of and costs of raw materials may be negatively impacted by trade protection policies such as tariffs, or escalating trade tensions, particularly with countries in Asia. Any disruption in the 14 Table of Contents supply of the raw materials, packaging or components used in the manufacture and delivery of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We contract with a number of large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies that have considerable bargaining power, which may require us to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. Large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies comprise a significant portion of our customer base. These customers generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers, including us. As we seek to expand our sales to existing customers and acquire new customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are favorable to our customers and that may affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, large customers have increased buying power and ability to require onerous terms in our contracts with them, including pricing, warranties, and indemnification terms. If we are unable to satisfy the terms of these contracts, it could result in liabilities of a material nature, including litigation, damages, additional costs, loss of market share and loss of reputation. Additionally, the terms these large customers require, such as most-favored nation or exclusivity provisions, may impact our ability to do business with other customers and generate revenues from such customers. Our products may contain defects that could cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers. Our products are complex and defects may be found from time to time. Networking products in particular frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We derive a majority of our revenue from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. In addition, we have extensive international manufacturing capabilities through third-party contract manufacturers, as well as through our own international facilities, with employees engaged in R&D, administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities. As a result of our international operations, in addition to similar risks we face in our U.S. operations, we are affected by economic, business, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general IT spending; the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes in or limitations imposed by trade protection laws or other regulatory orders or requirements in the United States or in other countries, including tariffs, sanctions, or other costs or requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries or increase the cost to do so, including government action to restrict our ability to sell to foreign customers where sales of products may require export licenses (such as the U.S. Department of Commerces addition of Huawei to the Entity List in May 2019 and the prohibition of export and sale of certain products to ZTE Corporation in early 2018) and increased tariffs on various products that have been proposed by the U.S. government and other non-U.S. governments; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; fluctuations in local economies; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; political developments of foreign nations; and the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns as well as our contract and internal manufacturing: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, unfavorable events that affect foreign currencies, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, 15 Table of Contents misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the United States or other countries in which we operate. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationships with customers and suppliers, financial reporting problems, fines and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The threat of increasing tariffs, particularly to goods traded between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding instituting tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials. More specifically, since 2018, the United States and China applied or proposed to apply tariffs to certain of each others exports, and we expect these actions to continue for the foreseeable future. The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the United States and China specifically carries the risk of negatively impacting overall economic conditions, which could have negative repercussions on our industry and our business. Furthermore, imposition of tariffs or new or revised export, import or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions, could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and results of operations. We face a number of risks related to our strategic transactions. We have in the past acquired several companies, including our acquisition of Oclaro in December 2018. We may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. We may be unable to identify or complete prospective acquisitions for many reasons, including increasing competition from other potential acquirers, the effects of consolidation in our industries and potentially high valuations of acquisition candidates. In addition, applicable antitrust laws and other regulations may limit our ability to acquire targets or force us to divest an acquired business. If we are unable to identify suitable targets or complete acquisitions, our growth prospects may suffer, and we may not be able to realize sufficient scale and technological advantages to compete effectively in all markets. In connection with acquisitions, risks to us and our business include: diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business; unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions imposed upon the acquisition or transaction, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; unanticipated changes in the acquired business, including due to regulatory action or changes in the operating results or financial condition of the business; the inability to retain and obtain required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; difficulties and costs in integrating the operations, technologies, products, IT and other systems, facilities and personnel of the purchased businesses; loss of customers, suppliers or partners; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process R&D; an acquisition or strategic transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments; We have in the past, and may in the future, also divest or reduce its investment in certain businesses or product lines from time to time. For example, during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we announced the divestiture of our Datacom module business in Japan which was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. Such divestitures involve risks, such as difficulty 16 Table of Contents separating portions of or entire businesses, distracting employees, incurring potential loss of revenue, negatively impacting margins, and potentially disrupting customer relationships. We may also incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impairment charges, or both. If we are unable to successfully manage any of these risks in relation to any future acquisitions or divestitures, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to successfully implement our acquisitions strategy or integrate acquired companies and personnel with existing operations. To the extent we are successful in making acquisitions, we may be unsuccessful in implementing our acquisitions strategy, or integrating acquired companies or product lines and personnel with existing operations, or the integration may be more difficult or more costly than anticipated. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: loss of customers, suppliers or partners; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process R&D; an acquisition or strategic transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments; we may face unanticipated liabilities or our exposure for known contingencies and liabilities may exceed our estimates; insufficient net revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; unexpected losses of key employees of the acquired company, or inability to maintain our company culture; conforming the acquired companys standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, including integrating Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems and other key business applications; coordinating new product and process development; increasing complexity from combining operations; increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; and diversion of managements attention from other business concerns. dilution of our current stockholders as a result of any issuance of equity securities as acquisition consideration; expenditure of cash that would otherwise be available to operate our business; incurrence of indebtedness on terms that are unfavorable to us, limit our operational flexibility or that we are unable to repay; In addition, following an acquisition, we may have difficulty forecasting the financial results of the combined company the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if the effect of any acquisitions on our consolidated financial results is dilutive or is below the market's or financial analysts' expectations, or if there are unanticipated changes in the business or financial performance of the target company or the combined company. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may disrupt our business and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in demand and customer requirements for our products may reduce manufacturing yields, which could negatively impact our profitability. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs, introduction of new product lines and changes in contract manufacturers may reduce manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process, before, during or after 17 Table of Contents manufacture, results in lower gross margins from lower yields and additional rework costs. Any reduction in our manufacturing yields will adversely affect our gross margins and could have a material impact on our operating results. We may not be able to realize tax savings from our international tax structure, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We initiated a new international corporate structure more closely aligned with our international operations during the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The new corporate structure is intended to reduce our overall effective tax rate through changes among our wholly-owned subsidiaries in how we use our intellectual property, and how we structure our international procurement and sales operations. The new structure includes legal entities located in jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The intercompany arrangements are intended to result in income earned by such entities in accordance with arms-length principles and commensurate with functions performed, risks assumed and ownership of valuable corporate assets. We have not yet operationalized the new structure to the full extent possible due to various factors including the acquisition of Oclaro in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. We are currently in the process of assessing the Oclaro transactions impact to our tax structure and, depending on the outcome, we may make modifications to the new structure in order to achieve better tax and operational efficiency. If we are unable to fully adopt a new international structure, if substantial modifications to the new international structure or the way we operate our business are made in light of the Oclaro acquisition or for other reasons, if changes in domestic and international tax laws negatively impact the structure, if we do not operate our business consistent with the new structure and applicable tax provisions, if we fail to achieve our revenue and profit goals, or if it is successfully challenged by the U.S. or foreign tax authorities, we may be unable to realize the anticipated tax savings which could materially and adversely affect our operating and financial results. We have agreed to reimburse Viavi for certain tax liabilities and related costs that may be incurred by Viavi, under certain circumstances, as a result of implementing the new corporate structure or a modified structure in the future. In addition, the implementation of such a structure has required us to incur expenses, and may require that we incur additional expenses, for which we may not realize the anticipated benefit or it may take us several years to fully realize the anticipated benefit. Changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant uncertainties exist with respect to the amount of our tax liabilities, including those arising from potential changes in laws in the countries in which we do business and the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws. Many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are under audit by various tax authorities, which often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. Any unfavorable resolution of these uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate. Increasingly, countries around the world are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations. In particular, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) contains many significant changes to the U.S. tax laws that affected our fiscal year ended June 29, 2019 , and which will continue to affect our fiscal years thereafter. Information regarding the Tax Act and the impact of the Tax Act on our tax profile is included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. The reduction in the U.S. federal statutory rate is expected to positively impact our federal cash tax liability. However, the ultimate impact is subject to the effect of other complex provisions in the Tax Act (including the BEAT and GILTI), and it is possible that any impact of BEAT, GILTI, or other provisions of the Tax Act could significantly reduce, or outweigh, the benefit of the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory rate. Due to the uncertain practical and technical application of many of these provisions, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts where possible for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. The U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and other standards-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the Tax Act will be applied that is different from our interpretation. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required or produced, and significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of the law were made in producing our provisional estimates. During the period ended December 29, 2018, we completed our accounting for the Tax Act with no material adjustment to our provisional estimates. We also anticipate that uncertainty in the application of the Tax Act to our ongoing operations as well as possible adverse future law changes attributable to changes in the U.S. political environment could have an adverse impact on our future tax rate. Other countries also continue to enact and consider enacting new laws, which could adversely affect us. The foregoing items could increase our future tax expense, could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of foreign earnings, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The income and non-income tax regimes we are subject to or operate under are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a set of internationally accepted tax rules as a part of a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (BEPS) Project aimed at tax avoidance, and that the roll-out of BEPS action steps by various jurisdictions may change aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. On June 7, 2019, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing a previous decision of the U.S. Tax Court, held that the U.S. Treasury Departments regulations requiring the inclusion of stock-based compensation expense in a taxpayers cost-sharing calculations were valid. We have a research and development cost sharing arrangement with one of our foreign affiliates. Our financial statements have been prepared consistent with the ruling and we will continue to monitor any ongoing developments, including the possibility of rehearing or appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, to determine if future changes are required. Our subsidiary in Thailand currently operates under a tax holiday which will expire in fiscal 2025 unless extension is granted by the Thailand government and we continue to meet the requirements thereunder. If we do not meet the tax holiday requirements, if we are not granted an extension by the Thailand government, or if we decide not to apply for an extension of the tax holiday, income earned in Thailand will be subject to a higher statutory income tax rate, which may cause our effective tax rate to increase and reduce our liquidity and cash flow. Our operating results may be subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks with regard to our international operations which may affect our operating results. Since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although we price our products primarily in U.S. dollars, a portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. For example, a portion of our expenses are denominated in U.K. pound sterling, Chinese yuan and Thai baht. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these currencies and other currencies in which we collect revenues and/or pay expenses could have a material effect on our future operating results. If the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to certain other foreign currencies, it would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could raise the relative cost of our products to non-U.S. customers, especially as compared to foreign competitors, and could reduce demand. Our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider, enterprise and commercial laser markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including supporting the development and introduction of new products, addressing new markets, engaging in strategic transactions and partnerships, improving or expanding our operating infrastructure or acquiring complementary businesses and technologies. On December 10, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch for a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the Term Loan Facility). In March 2017, we issued and sold a total of $450 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes due in 2024 (the 2024 Notes) and we may in the future engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us 19 Table of Contents when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. Our ability to hire and retain employees may be negatively impacted by changes in immigration laws, regulations and procedures. Foreign nationals who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents constitute an important part of our U.S. workforce, particularly in the areas of engineering and product development. Our ability to hire and retain these workers and their ability to remain and work in the United States are impacted by laws and regulations, as well as by procedures and enforcement practices of various government agencies. Changes in immigration laws, regulations or procedures, including those that may be enacted by the current U.S. presidential administration and in the United Kingdom, may adversely affect our ability to hire or retain such workers, increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our ability to deliver our products and services. Any failure, disruption or security breach of our information technology infrastructure or information management systems could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our business depends significantly on effective and efficient information management systems, and the reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure are essential to the health and expansion of our business. For example, the information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in managing our supply chain, monitoring customer accounts, and protecting our proprietary and confidential business information, plans, trade secrets, and intellectual property, among other things. In addition, these systems may also contain personal data or other protected information about our employees, our customers employees, or others. We must continue to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing requirements as well as evolving security standards and risks. In some cases, we may rely upon third-party providers of hosting, support and other services to meet our information technology requirements. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure, including our ERP system and other applications, any failure in the extension implementation or operation of this infrastructure, or any failure by our hosting and support partners or other third-party service providers in the performance of their services could materially harm our business. In addition, we have partnered with third parties to support our information technology systems and to help design, build, test, implement and maintain our information management systems. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity, including our acquisition of Oclaro in December 2018, will also require transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems within our overall enterprise architecture, including our ERP system and other applications. Those systems that we acquire may also pose security risks of which we are unaware or unable to mitigate, particularly during the transition of these systems. Like other companies, we are subject to ongoing attempts by malicious actors, including through hacking, malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering, exploitation of internet-connected devices, and other attacks, to obtain unauthorized access or acquisition of confidential information or otherwise affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information on our systems. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to social engineering and other cybersecurity attacks. Further, our third party service providers may have been and may be in the future subject to such attacks. In addition, actions by our employees, service providers, partners, contractors or others, whether malicious or in error, could affect the security of our systems. Further, a breach of our information technology infrastructure could result in the misappropriation of intellectual property, business plans or trade secrets. Any failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers could result in unauthorized access or acquisition of such proprietary information, and any actual or perceived security breach could cause significant damage to our reputation and adversely impact our relationships with our customers. Additionally, while our security systems are designed to maintain the physical security of our facilities and information systems, accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access by third parties to our facilities or our information systems could lead to misappropriation of proprietary and confidential information. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage from these types of attacks or errors. In addition, our systems may be impacted by natural disasters, terrorism or other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach affecting us or our third-party providers could result in disruptions to our operations and loss of, or unauthorized access or damage to, our data or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information. Any actual or alleged disruption to, or security breach affecting, our systems or those of our third-party partners could cause significant damage to our reputation, lead to theft of our protected intellectual property and trade secrets, result in legal obligations or liability, affect our relationships with our customers, and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or mitigate damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. Our revenues, operating results, and cash flows may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors including unfavorable economic and market conditions, which makes predicting financial results difficult. 20 Table of Contents Spending on optical communication and laser products is subject to cyclical and uneven fluctuations, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate unevenly and unpredictably. It can be difficult to predict the degree to which end-customer demand and the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of our OEM partners or other customers will affect our business in the future, particularly as we or they release new or enhanced products. While our fourth fiscal quarters are typically strongest, future buying patterns may differ from historical seasonality. Further, if the mix of revenue changes, it may also cause results to differ from historical seasonality. Accordingly, our quarterly and annual revenues, operating results, cash flows, and other financial and operating metrics may vary significantly in the future, and the results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Adverse changes to and uncertainty in the global economy may lead to decreased demand for our products and revenue fluctuations, increased price competition for our products, and may increase the risk of excess and obsolete inventories and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. Declines or uncertainty in particular geographic regions, such as China or Europe, may impact IT-related spending generally and consequently, may lead to lower growth or a decline in our markets. The loss or delay of orders from any of our significant customers could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. The impact of economic challenges on the global financial markets could further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, the solvency of our key suppliers or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If economic conditions deteriorate or remain uncertain, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely impacted. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect our rights, our business would be materially harmed. We seek to protect our products and product roadmaps in part by developing and/or securing proprietary rights relating to those products, including patents, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. Other companies may be investigating or developing technologies that are similar to our own. It is possible that patents may not be issued from any of our pending applications or those we may file in the future and, if patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from making, using or selling products that are similar to ours, or such patents could be invalidated or ruled unenforceable. We do not own patents in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to offer identical products in countries where we do not have intellectual property protections. In addition, the laws of some territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Europe, Asia-Pacific or Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Additionally, we are currently a licensee for a number of third-party technologies including software and intellectual property rights from academic institutions, our competitors and others, and we are required to pay royalties to these licensors for the use thereof. In the future, if such licenses are unavailable or if we are unable to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to rely on such third-party technologies which could inhibit our development of new products, impede the sale of some of our current products, substantially increase the cost to provide these products to our customers, and could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. We also seek to protect our important trademarks by endeavoring to register them in certain countries. We have not registered our trademarks in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to use the same or confusingly similar marks in countries where we do not have trademark registrations. We have adopted Lumentum as a house trademark and trade name for our company, and are in the process of establishing rights in this name and brand. We have also adopted the Lumentum logo as a house trademark for our company, and are in the process of establishing rights in this brand. Trademarks associated with the Lumentum brand have been registered in the United States or other jurisdictions, however, the efforts we take to maintain registration and protect trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, may not be sufficient or effective. Although we have registered marks associated with the Lumentum brand, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. There is the possibility that, despite efforts, the scope of the protection obtained for our trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, will be insufficient or that a registration may be deemed invalid or unenforceable in one or more jurisdictions throughout the world. Further, a breach of our information technology infrastructure could result in the misappropriation of intellectual property, business plans or trade secrets. Any failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers could result in unauthorized access or acquisition of such proprietary information, and any actual or perceived security breach could cause significant damage to our reputation and adversely impact our relationships with our customers. 21 Table of Contents Our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. Lawsuits and allegations of patent infringement and violation of other intellectual property rights occur regularly in our industry. We have in the past received, and anticipate that we will receive in the future, notices from third parties claiming that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights, with two distinct sources of such claims becoming increasingly prevalent. First, large technology companies, including some of our customers and competitors, are seeking to monetize their patent portfolios and have developed large internal organizations that may approach us with demands to enter into license agreements. Second, patent-holding companies that do not make or sell products (often referred to as patent trolls) may claim that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. We respond to these claims in the course of our business operations. The litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. We may not be successful in such development, or such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Without such a license, or if we are the subject of an exclusionary order, our ability to make our products could be limited and we could be enjoined from future sales of the infringing product or products, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Additionally, we often indemnify our customers against claims of infringement related to our products and may incur significant expenses to defend against such claims. If we are unsuccessful defending against such claims, we may be required to indemnify our customers against any damages awarded. We also face risks that third parties may assert trademark infringement claims against us in one or more jurisdictions throughout the world related to our Lumentum and Oclaro brands and/or other trademarks. The litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, trademark infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some or all of our products or services under the challenged trademark. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to alter our products, labels or packaging, license rights from third parties, or cease using the challenged trademark altogether, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We face certain litigation risks that could harm our business. We are now, and in the future we may become, subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of the complaints filed against us may not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore may be unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. While we may be unable to estimate the potential damages arising from such lawsuits, certain of them assert types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Even if these lawsuits are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved lawsuits could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Litigation is generally costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The costs of defending these lawsuits have been significant in the past, will continue to be costly and may not be covered by our insurance policies. The defense of these lawsuits could also result in continued diversion of our managements time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. For additional discussion regarding litigation, see Part II, Item 1. Legal Proceedings. Our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could potentially require us to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to laws and other regulations worldwide including with respect to environmental matters, securities laws, privacy and data protection, compliance with which could increase our expenses and harm our operating results. Our operations and our products are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and protection of human health and the environment in the jurisdictions in which we operate or sell our products. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, wastewater discharges and the handling and disposal of hazardous materials in our products. Our failure to comply with current and future environmental or health or safety requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs, including significant capital expenditures, to comply with such environmental laws and regulations and to clean up contaminated properties that we own or operate. Such clean-up or compliance obligations could result in disruptions to our operations. Additionally, if we are found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines or civil liability for damages resulting from such violations. These costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or operating results. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) enacted in the European Union which regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain products we manufacture. These regulations and similar legislation may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials, which could have an adverse impact on the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or other similar effects. We believe we comply with all such legislation where our products are sold and we continuously monitor these laws and the regulations being adopted under them to determine our responsibilities. In addition, pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC has promulgated rules requiring disclosure regarding the use of certain conflict minerals that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals. Complying with these disclosure requirements involves substantial diligence efforts to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products and may require third-party auditing of our diligence process. These efforts may demand internal resources that would otherwise be directed towards operations activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the conflict minerals used in our products. Additionally, if we are unable to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are determined to be conflict free, they may choose a competitors products which could materially impact our financial condition and operating results. We are also subject to laws and regulations with respect to personal data we collect from our employees, customers, and others. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent modifications and updates and require ongoing supervision. For example, the European Union adopted a General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that became effective in May 2018, and has established new, and in some cases more stringent, requirements for data protection in Europe, and which provides for substantial penalties for noncompliance. We have made certain modifications to our practices in order to comply with these or other requirements, and may be required to make additional modifications in order to comply with these or other requirements relating to privacy and data protection in the future, each of which may require us to incur significant costs and expenses. Additionally, California enacted legislation in June 2018, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which will, among other things, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers when it goes into effect on January 1, 2020. Legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA before it goes into effect, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to this legislation or how it will be interpreted. The effects of the CCPA are potentially significant, however, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection continue to evolve in various jurisdictions, with existing laws and regulations subject to new and differing interpretations and new laws and regulations being proposed and adopted. It is possible that our practices may be deemed not to comply with those privacy and data protection legal requirements that apply to us now or in the future. Further, in June 2016, a referendum was passed in the United Kingdom to leave the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit. This created an uncertain political and economic environment in the United Kingdom and other European Union countries, even though the formal process for leaving the European Union may take years to complete and may not ultimately be effectuated. For example, while the United Kingdom has enacted a Data Protection Bill that substantially implements GDPR, which became law in May 2018, there remains uncertainty with regard to whether the European Union will view this regulation as adequate under GDPR and how data transfers between the United Kingdom and the European Union will be regulated. 23 Table of Contents Our failure or perceived failure to comply with any of the foregoing legal and regulatory requirements could result in increased costs for our products, monetary penalties, damages to our reputation, government inquiries and investigations, and legal action. Furthermore, the legal and regulatory requirements that are applicable to our business are subject to change from time to time, which increases our monitoring and compliance costs and the risk that we may fall out of compliance. Additionally, we may be required to ensure that our suppliers comply with applicable laws and regulations. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with such laws or regulations, we could face sanctions for such noncompliance, and our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales may decline if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products, and we may be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. government and administered by the U.S. Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the Department of States Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. Certain of our fiber optics products are subject to EAR and certain of our RF-over-fiber products, as well as certain products and technical data, are developed with government funding, and are currently subject to ITAR. Products and the associated technical data developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation. Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with U.S. government regulations also subjects us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. Further, there is increased attention from the government and the media regarding potential threats to U.S. national security and foreign policy relating to certain foreign entities, particularly Chinese entities, and the imposition of enhanced restrictions or sanctions regarding the export of our products or on specific foreign entities that would restrict their ability to do business with U.S. companies may materially adversely affect our business. For example, on May 16, 2019, Huawei was added to the Entity List of the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce, which imposes limitations on the supply of certain U.S. items and product support to Huawei. We cannot predict what additional actions the U.S. government may take with respect to Huawei or other of our customers, including modifications to or interpretations of Entity List restrictions, export restrictions, tariffs, or other trade limitations or barriers. Our association with customers that are or become subject to U.S. regulatory scrutiny or export restrictions could negatively impact our business. Governmental actions such as these could subject us to actual or perceived reputational harm among current or prospective investors, suppliers or customers, customers of our customers, other parties doing business with us, or the general public. Any such reputational harm could result in the loss of investors, suppliers or customers, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. In addition, certain of our significant customers and suppliers have products that are subject to U.S. export controls, and therefore these customers and suppliers may also be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if they do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Such regulatory consequences could disrupt our ability to obtain components from our suppliers, or to sell our products to major customers, which could significantly increase our costs, reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and Nasdaq listing requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure