ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "CenturyLink," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CenturyLink, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See the last paragraph of this Item 2 and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report for a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our anticipated results or otherwise impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 , and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The results of operations for the first three months of the year are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that might be expected for the entire year. We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, broadband, private line (including special access), Multi-Protocol Label Switching ("MPLS"), data integration, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, Ethernet, network access, public access, wireless, video and other ancillary services. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. At March 31, 2014 , we operated 12.9 million access lines in 37 states, served approximately 6.1 million broadband subscribers, and operated 56 data centers throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Our methodology for counting access lines, subscriber lines and data centers may not be comparable to those of other companies. We report the following four segments in our consolidated financial statements: Consumer. Consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to residential consumers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our broadband, wireless and video services, including our Prism TV services. Our legacy services offered to these customers include local and long-distance service. Business. Consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to commercial, enterprise, global and governmental customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our private line, broadband, Ethernet, MPLS, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP"), and network management services. Our legacy services offered to these customers include local and long-distance service. Wholesale. Consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to other communications providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers are mainly private line (including special access), dedicated internet access, digital subscriber line ("DSL") and MPLS. Our legacy services offered to these customers include the resale of our services, the sale of unbundled network elements ("UNEs") which allow our wholesale customers to use our network or a combination of our network and their own networks to provide voice and data services to their customers, long-distance and switched access services and other services, including billing and collection, pole rental, floor space and database services. Hosting. Consists primarily of providing colocation, managed hosting and cloud hosting services to commercial, enterprise, global, governmental and wholesale customers. Our segment information does not include capital expenditures, total assets, or certain revenues and expenses that we manage on a centralized basis and are reviewed by our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") only on a consolidated basis. Our segment results are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that our segments would have achieved had they operated as stand-alone entities during the periods presented. For additional information about our segments, see Note 7Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report and "Results of OperationsSegment Results" below. 20 Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions except per share amounts) Operating revenues $ 4,538 4,513 Operating expenses 3,885 3,731 Operating income 653 782 Other income (expense), net (322 ) (277 ) Income tax expense 128 207 Net income $ 203 298 Basic earnings per common share $ 0.35 0.48 Diluted earnings per common share $ 0.35 0.48 The following table summarizes our broadband subscribers, access lines, data centers and number of employees: As of March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2014 2013 (2) (in thousands except for data centers, which are actual amounts) Operational metrics: Total broadband subscribers (1) 6,057 5,917 140 2.4 % Total access lines (1) 12,882 13,561 (679 ) (5.0 )% Total data centers (3) 56 54 2 3.7 % Total employees 46.5 46.6 (0.1 ) (0.2 )% ______________________________________________________________________ (1) Broadband subscribers are customers that purchase high-speed Internet connection service through their existing telephone lines and fiber-optic cables, and access lines are lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public network. (2) The prior year numbers have been adjusted to include the operational metrics of our wholly owned subsidiary, El Paso County Telephone Company, which had been previously excluded. The increase (in thousands) related to including El Paso County Telephone Company's broadband subscribers and access lines, in the table above, is approximately 2 and 3 , respectively. (3) Data centers are located throughout North America, Europe and Asia. During the last several years, we have experienced revenue decline (excluding the impact of acquisitions) primarily due to declines in access lines, intrastate access rates and minutes of use. To mitigate these declines, we remain focused on efforts to, among other things: promote long-term relationships with our customers through bundling of integrated services; provide new services, such as video, cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation and other additional services that may become available in the future due to, among other things, advances in technology or improvements in our infrastructure; provide our broadband and premium services to a higher percentage of our customers; pursue acquisitions of additional assets if available at attractive prices; increase usage of our networks; and market our products and services to new customers. 21 Operating Revenues We categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily broadband, private line (including special access, which we market to wholesale and business customers), MPLS (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video service), hosting (including cloud hosting and managed hosting), colocation, Ethernet, video (including our facilities-based video services, which we now offer in twelve markets, and our resold satellite service), VoIP and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, switched access, Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), and traditional wide area network ("WAN") services (which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration , which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers; and Other revenues, which consists primarily of USF revenue and surcharges. Unlike the first three revenue categories, other revenues are not included in our segment revenues. The following table summarizes our operating revenues under our revenue categorization: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Strategic services $ 2,281 2,164 117 5 % Legacy services 1,829 1,952 (123 ) (6 )% Data integration 174 140 34 24 % Other 254 257 (3 ) (1 )% Total operating revenues $ 4,538 4,513 25 1 % Our operating revenues increased by $25 million , or approximately 1% , during the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase in operating revenues is primarily due to growth in our strategic services revenues and data integration revenues, which were partially offset by declines in legacy services revenues compared to the prior year. During 2013, operating revenues attributable to certain bundled and CLEC services were revised, which resulted in a net increase to strategic service revenues of $22 million and a corresponding net reduction to legacy services revenues of $22 million. For additional information on the revisions to certain bundled and CLEC services, see Note 7Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The growth in our strategic services revenues is primarily due to increases in broadband, Ethernet, MPLS, facilities-based video, managed hosting and colocation services, which were slightly offset by declines in private line (including special access) services. The increase in data integration revenues, which are typically more volatile than several of our other sources of revenue, is primarily due to higher sales of customer premise equipment to governmental and business customers during the period. The decrease in legacy services revenues is attributable to declining local and long-distance and access services which reflect the continuing loss of access lines and loss of access revenues associated with internet and wireless substitution in our markets. At March 31, 2014, we had approximately 12.9 million access lines, or approximately 5.0% less than the number of access lines we operated at March 31, 2013. We believe the decline in the number of access lines was primarily due to the displacement of traditional wireline telephone services by other competitive products and services. We estimate that our access lines loss will be at a rate between 4.8% and 5.7% over the full year of 2014. Further analysis of our operating revenues by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." 22 Operating Expenses Total operating expenses increased by $154 million , or 4% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . The following table summarizes our operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,935 1,796 139 8 % Selling, general and administrative 843 818 25 3 % Depreciation and amortization 1,107 1,117 (10 ) (1 )% Total operating expenses $ 3,885 3,731 154 4 % Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased by $139 million , or 8% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in professional fees, customer premise equipment installation expense, facility costs, network expense, real estate and power costs and employee related costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $25 million , or 3% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in employee related costs, marketing and advertising, property and other taxes and external commissions, which were slightly offset by a decrease in professional fees. Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased by $10 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . Depreciation expense decreased by $1 million from $718 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 to $717 million in the three months ended March 31, 2014 due primarily to depreciation rate changes, which was partially offset by changes in our estimates of the remaining economic lives of certain switch and circuit network equipment and the growth in new plant. The rate changes were the result of our plant aging and becoming fully depreciated or retired at a faster rate than the addition of new plant. We expect that the impact of the depreciation rate changes will be increasingly offset over the remaining nine months of 2014 as we upgrade or build additional plant. Amortization expense decreased by $9 million from $399 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 to $390 million in the three months ended March 31, 2014 due primarily to the use of accelerated amortization methods for a portion of the customer relationship assets that were acquired with the acquisitions of Embarq in 2009 and Qwest in 2011 and due to our software investments becoming fully amortized faster than new software is acquired, which were partially offset by a change in the estimate of the remaining economic lives of the Savvis trade name and certain cloud software. For more information about the changes in our estimates of the remaining economic lives, see Note 1Basis of Presentation to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Further analysis of our operating expenses by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Other Consolidated Results The following table summarizes our total other income (expense) and income tax expense: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (331 ) (316 ) 15 5 % Other income (expense) 9 39 (30 ) (77 )% Total other income (expense), net $ (322 ) (277 ) 45 16 % Income tax expense $ 128 207 (79 ) (38 )% Interest Expense Interest expense increased $15 million , or 5% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to a higher average outstanding debt balance and a reduction in the amortization of debt premiums. 23 Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) reflects certain items not directly related to our core operations, including our share of income from our 49% interest in a cellular partnership, interest income, gains and losses from non-operating asset dispositions and foreign currency gains and losses. Other income was lower by $30 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to a $32 million gain on the sale of wireless spectrum in January 2013, which was partially offset by gains on foreign currency transactions in 2014. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense decreased by $79 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , and 2013 , our effective income tax rate was 38.7% , and 41.0% , respectively. The 2013 effective tax rate reflects the impact of an accounting adjustment for nondeductible life insurance costs. Segment Results General Segment results are summarized below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Total segment revenues $ 4,284 4,256 Total segment expenses 2,099 1,928 Total segment income $ 2,185 2,328 Total margin percentage 51 % 55 % Consumer: Revenues $ 1,509 1,511 Expenses 583 549 Income $ 926 962 Margin percentage 61 % 64 % Business: Revenues $ 1,559 1,505 Expenses 966 857 Income $ 593 648 Margin percentage 38 % 43 % Wholesale: Revenues $ 862 906 Expenses 276 274 Income $ 586 632 Margin percentage 68 % 70 % Hosting: Revenues $ 354 334 Expenses 274 248 Income $ 80 86 Margin percentage 23 % 26 % 24 During the first quarter of 2014, we adopted several changes with respect to the assignment of certain expenses to our segments. We have restated the previously reported segment results for the three months ended March 31, 2013 to conform to the current presentation. The nature of the most significant changes and the related effect on segment expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013 are as follows: The method for allocating certain shared costs of consumer sales and care, including bad debt expense and credit card fees, was revised, which resulted in an increase in consumer segment expenses of $20 million and a corresponding decrease in business segment expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013; and Hosting segment expenses have been conformed to the reporting of our other segments expenses. Specifically, our integration efforts and centralization of certain administrative functions reached the point where it has become more practical to discontinue including certain finance, information technology, legal and human resources expenses in the hosting segment, which resulted in a decrease of $18 million in hosting segment expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2013. Our segment revenues include all revenues from our strategic and legacy services and data integration as described in more detail above. Segment revenues are based upon each customer's classification to an individual segment. We report our segment revenues based upon all services provided to that segment's customers, with the exception of hosting revenue generated from business and wholesale customers, which is reported in hosting segment revenues. We report our segment expenses for our four segments as follows: Direct expenses , which primarily are specific expenses incurred as a direct result of providing services and products to segment customers, along with selling, general and administrative expenses that are directly associated with specific segment customers or activities; and Allocated expenses , which include network expenses, facilities expenses and other expenses such as fleet and real estate expenses. We do not assign depreciation and amortization expense or impairments to our segments, as the related assets and capital expenditures are centrally managed and are not monitored by or reported to the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") by segment. Similarly, severance expenses, restructuring expenses and, certain centrally managed administrative functions (such as finance, information technology, legal and human resources) are not assigned to our segments. Interest expense is also excluded from segment results because we manage our financing on a total company basis and have not allocated assets or debt to specific segments. Other income (expense) is not monitored as a part of our segment operations and is therefore excluded from our segment results. Consumer The operations of our consumer segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. In order to remain competitive and attract additional residential broadband subscribers, we believe it is important to continually increase our broadband network's scope and connection speeds. As a result, we continue to invest in our broadband network, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services to a greater number of customers. We compete in a maturing broadband market in which most consumers already have broadband services and growth rates in new subscribers have slowed. Moreover, as described further in Item 1A of Part II of this report, demand for our broadband services could be adversely affected by competitors providing services at higher broadband speed than ours or using advanced wireless data technologies. We also continue to expand our strategic product offerings, including facilities-based video services. The expansion of our facilities-based video service infrastructure requires us to incur start-up expenses in advance of the revenue that this service is expected to generate. Although, over time, we expect that our revenue for facilities-based video services will offset the expenses incurred, the timing of this revenue growth is uncertain. We believe these efforts will improve our ability to compete and increase our strategic revenues; Legacy services. Our voice revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice services and electronic mail, texting and social networking non-voice services for traditional voice telecommunications services. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business. As a result of the expected loss of revenues associated with access lines, we continue to offer our customers service bundling and other product promotions to help mitigate this trend, as described below; 25 Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While we believe our bundled service offerings can help retain customers, they also tend to lower our profit margins in the consumer segment; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. The following table summarizes the results of operations from our consumer segment: Consumer Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 702 645 57 9 % Legacy services 806 864 (58 ) (7 )% Data integration 1 2 (1 ) (50 )% Total revenues 1,509 1,511 (2 ) % Segment expenses: Direct 466 436 30 7 % Allocated 117 113 4 4 % Total expenses 583 549 34 6 % Segment income $ 926 962 (36 ) (4 )% Segment margin percentage 61 % 64 % Segment Revenues Consumer revenues decreased $2 million , or less than 1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . Growth in strategic services revenues were more than offset by the decline in legacy services revenues. The increase in strategic services revenues is due primarily to volume increases in our facilities-based video services and increases in the number of broadband subscribers, as well as from price increases on various services. Legacy services revenues decreased primarily due to declines in local and long-distance services associated with access line losses resulting from the competitive and technological changes described above. Segment Expenses Consumer expenses increased by $34 million , or 6% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in marketing and advertising expense, programming expenses associated with rate increases from Prism TV content providers, modem costs for Prism TV as a result of base subscriber growth in our existing and new markets and allocated expenses, which were partially offset by decreases in facility costs and employee related costs. The increase in allocated expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 was primarily due to higher real estate and power costs. Segment Income Consumer income decreased by $36 million , or 4% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to an increase in operating expenses. 26 Business The operations of our business segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. Our mix of total segment revenues continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our commercial, enterprise, global and governmental customers increasingly demand customized and integrated data, Internet and voice services. We offer diverse combinations of emerging technology products and services such as private line, MPLS, and VoIP services. We believe these services afford our customers more flexibility in managing their communications needs and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their operations. Although we are experiencing price compression on our strategic services due to competition, we expect strategic revenues from these services to continue to grow during 2014; Legacy services. We face intense competition with respect to our legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services and into strategic services. In addition, our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price compression; Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal, state and local governmental customers, many of whom have recently experienced substantial budget cuts with the possibility of additional future budget cuts; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions, while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. However, our ongoing efforts to increase revenue will continue to require that we incur higher costs in some areas, particularly sales employee related expenses attributable to headcount increases. We also expect our business segment to benefit indirectly from efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. The following table summarizes the results of operations from our business segment: Business Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) %Change 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 655 614 41 7 % Legacy services 731 753 (22 ) (3 )% Data integration 173 138 35 25 % Total revenues 1,559 1,505 54 4 % Segment expenses: Direct 854 753 101 13 % Allocated 112 104 8 8 % Total expenses 966 857 109 13 % Segment income $ 593 648 (55 ) (8 )% Segment margin percentage 38 % 43 % Segment Revenues Business segment revenues increased by $54 million , or 4% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . The increase in business segment revenues is primarily due to growth in our strategic services revenues and data integration revenues, which were partially offset by declines in legacy services revenues. The growth in our strategic services revenues is primarily due to strong MPLS unit growth and higher Ethernet volume, which were slightly offset by declines in private line (including special access) services. The increase in data integration revenues is primarily due to higher sales of customer premise equipment to governmental and business customers during the period. The decrease in legacy services revenues is attributable to declines in local and traditional WAN services, which were partially offset by increases in long-distance services. 27 Segment Expenses Business expenses increased by $109 million , or 13% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in employee related expenses attributable to higher headcount, customer premise equipment and maintenance costs resulting from higher governmental and business sales noted above, marketing and advertising expense, and facility costs driven by MPLS unit growth. Allocated expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to higher real estate and power costs. Segment Income Business income decreased by $55 million , or 8% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to an increase in direct expenses. Wholesale The operations of our wholesale segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. Demand for our private line services (including special access) has begun to decline due to our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our wholesale segment, we believe the demand for our fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will partially offset the decline in copper-based special access services provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain; Legacy services. Our access, local services and long-distance revenues have been and we expect will continue to be adversely affected by customer migration to more technologically advanced services, declining demand for traditional voice services, industry consolidation and price compression caused by regulation and rate reductions. For example, wholesale consumers are substituting cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued access revenue loss. Our switched access revenues have been and will continue to be impacted by changes related to the Connect America and Intercarrier Compensation Reform order ("CAF order") adopted by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") on October 27, 2011 that we believe has increased the pace of reductions in the amount of switched access revenues we receive in our wholesale segment. Conversely, the FCC instituted an access recovery charge that we believe will allow us to recover the majority of these lost revenues directly from end users in our consumer and business segments. We expect the effect of these factors will continue to adversely impact our wholesale segment; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. We also expect our wholesale segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 28 The following table summarizes the results of operations from our wholesale segment: Wholesale Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 570 571 (1 ) % Legacy services 292 335 (43 ) (13 )% Total revenues 862 906 (44 ) (5 )% Segment expenses: Direct 41 30 11 37 % Allocated 235 244 (9 ) (4 )% Total expenses 276 274 2 1 % Segment income $ 586 632 (46 ) (7 )% Segment margin percentage 68 % 70 % Segment Revenues Wholesale revenues decreased by $44 million , or 5% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . These decreases reflect lower revenues from both legacy and strategic services. The decrease in legacy services revenues reflects continuing declines in access and long-distance services volumes and revenues due to the substitution of cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services. The decline in strategic services revenues was due to decreases in our private line and special access services revenues, which was substantially offset by an increase in Ethernet revenues from higher volume. Segment Expenses Wholesale expenses increased by $2 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . Total direct expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in direct facility costs and miscellaneous nonemployee expenses. Allocated expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 decreased primarily due to a reduction in allocated facility costs. Segment Income Declines in both strategic and legacy services revenues largely contributed to a decrease in our wholesale segment income of $46 million , or 7% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . The decrease in income was primarily due to the decline in revenue while operating expenses remained mostly unchanged. Hosting The operations of our hosting segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Colocation. Colocation services are designed for clients seeking data center space and power for their server and networking equipment needs. Our data centers provide our clients around the world with a secure, high-powered, purpose-built location for their IT equipment. We anticipate continued pricing pressure for these services as wholesale vendors continue to expand their enterprise colocation operations; however, we believe that our hybrid data centers, which offer multiple products (including colocation, managed hosting, cloud and network) will differentiate our offerings; 29 Managed hosting. Managed hosting services provide a fully managed solution for a customer's IT infrastructure and network needs, and include dedicated and cloud hosting services, computing capacity, consulting and managed security services. In recent years, our competitors, as well as several large diversified technology companies, have made substantial investments in cloud computing, which has intensified competitive pressures. We believe that this expansion in competitive cloud computing offerings has led to increased pricing pressure and competition for enterprise customers, and expect those trends to continue. However, we have remained focused on expanding our managed hosting business, specifically in our cloud service offerings, by adding differentiating features to our cloud products and acquiring additional companies that we believe have strengthened our cloud products; Network services. Network services are comprised of our hosting area network products supporting colocation and managed hosting service offerings. Network services also include managed VPN and bandwidth services. Segment income for these services has been relatively flat due to pricing pressures on VPN and bandwidth services, offset by increases in hosting area network services; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our segment workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. However, our ongoing efforts to increase revenue will continue to require that we incur higher costs in some areas, particularly sales employee related expenses attributable to headcount increases. The following table summarizes the results of operations from our hosting segment, which are all categorized as strategic services: Hosting Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues $ 354 334 20 6 % Segment expenses 274 248 26 10 % Segment income $ 80 86 (6 ) (7 )% Segment margin percentage 23 % 26 % Segment Revenues Hosting revenues increased by $20 million , or 6% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 . The increase in segment revenues is primarily due to growth in managed hosting, colocation and hosting area network services, which were slightly offset by a decline in MPLS services. The increase in revenues was driven by new customer growth, the impact of revenues contributed from the recent acquisitions and a favorable impact from foreign currency translations. Segment Expenses Hosting expenses increased by $26 million , or 10% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in employee related costs resulting from our recent acquisitions and added headcount, professional fees, network expenses and real estate and power costs, which were partially offset by a decrease in facility costs. Segment Income Hosting income decreased by $6 million , or 7% , for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to an increase in operating expenses. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At March 31, 2014 , we held cash and cash equivalents of $219 million and we had $1.2 billion of borrowing capacity available under our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility (referred to as our "Credit Facility", which is described further below). At March 31, 2014 , cash and cash equivalents of $86 million were held in foreign bank accounts for the purpose of funding our foreign operations. Due to various factors, our access to foreign cash is generally much more restricted than our access to domestic cash. We and our Board of Directors monitor our use of cash throughout the year, but with enhanced scrutiny early each year in connection with the review of annual budgets. In connection with our budgeting process in early 2014 , our executive officers and our Board of Directors reviewed our sources and potential uses of cash over the next several years, including among other things the previously-disclosed effect of the anticipated depletion of our federal net operating loss carryforwards by 2015 and the implementation of a new share repurchase program. Based on the current capital allocation objectives, during the remaining nine months of 2014 we anticipate expending approximately $2.3 billion of cash for capital investment in property, plant and equipment and up to $933 million for dividends on our common stock, based on the current quarterly common stock dividend rate of $0.54 and the current number of outstanding common shares. We have debt maturities of approximately $630 million , scheduled debt principal payments of $17 million , and scheduled capital lease and other obligation payments of $90 million due during the remainder of 2014 . We also anticipate expending cash for repurchasing common stock, but the amount will largely depend on market conditions. We will continue to monitor our future sources and uses of cash, and anticipate that we will make adjustments to our capital allocation strategies when, as and if determined by our Board of Directors. We may also draw on our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity for operating activities and to give us additional flexibility to finance, among other things, our capital investments, repayments of debt, pension contributions, dividends, or stock repurchases. We currently expect to continue our current practice of paying quarterly cash dividends in respect of our common stock, subject to our board's discretion to modify or terminate this practice at any time and for any reason. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted impact on revenue growth, productivity, expenses, service levels and customer retention) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations. Based on our current objectives, we estimate our total capital expenditures to be approximately $2.3 billion for the remaining nine months of 2014 . Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as video, broadband and managed hosting services. In particular, we expect to continue to focus on expanding our fiber infrastructure, including installations of "fiber to the tower," which is a type of telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network and on software development. For more information on capital spending, see Items 1 and 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Debt and Other Financing Arrangements On April 1, 2014, a subsidiary of Embarq paid at maturity the $30 million principal amount of its 7.46% Notes. Qwest Corporation's $600 million 7.5% senior notes will mature on October 1, 2014 . Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to issue debt securities from time to time in the future to refinance a substantial portion of our maturing debt, including issuing Qwest Corporation debt securities to refinance its maturing debt to the extent feasible. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned to us and Qwest Corporation by the credit rating agencies, among other factors. 31 As of the date of this report, the credit ratings for the senior unsecured debt of CenturyLink, Inc. and Qwest Corporation were as follows: Agency CenturyLink, Inc. Qwest Corporation Standard & Poor's BB BBB- Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Ba2 Baa3 Fitch Ratings BB+ BBB- In early 2013, CenturyLink's senior unsecured debt ratings were downgraded from "investment grade" to "non-investment grade" by two of the rating agencies, which we believe increased our borrowing costs. Any additional downgrades of CenturyLink's senior unsecured debt ratings could under certain circumstances incrementally increase the cost of our borrowing under the Credit Facility. In addition, any additional downgrades of CenturyLink's or Qwest Corporation's senior unsecured debt ratings could impact our access to debt capital or further raise our borrowing costs. See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Dividends We currently expect to continue our current practice of paying quarterly cash dividends in respect of our common stock subject to our Board of Director's discretion to modify or terminate this practice at any time and for any reason. In early 2013, our Board of Directors approved a 25.5% reduction in our quarterly common stock dividend rate to $0.54 per share, which we believe resulted in a dividend payout rate that is more sustainable over the long-term, and thereby increased our flexibility to balance our multiple objectives of managing our business, paying our fixed commitments and returning cash to our shareholders. Assuming continued payment at this rate of $0.54 per share, our total dividends paid each quarter would be approximately $311 million based on our current number of outstanding shares (which does not reflect shares that we might repurchase or issue in future periods). See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of Part II of this report and the discussion of our stock repurchase program below. Stock Repurchase Programs In February 2013, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $2 billion of our outstanding common stock. As of March 31, 2014 , we had approximately $114 million in stock remaining available for repurchase under the stock repurchase program (includes common shares that, as of March 31, 2014 , we had agreed to purchase under the program for $18 million in transactions that settled early in the second quarter of 2014). As of May 6, 2014 , we had repurchased 58.7 million shares for $1.97 billion or an average purchase price of $33.60 per share. The repurchased common stock has been retired. We expect to continue executing this share repurchase program primarily in open market transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors. For additional information on repurchases made during the three months ended March 31, 2014 , see Item 2 of Part II of this report. In late February 2014, our board authorized a 24-month program to repurchase up to an aggregate of $1 billion of our outstanding common stock. This new program will take effect immediately upon the completion of our current repurchase program, which we expect to complete during the second quarter of 2014 based on current market conditions. We expect to execute this share repurchase program in open market transactions, subject to market conditions and other factors, and expect to complete the new program within 18 to 24 months from its effective date. Credit Facilities We have access to up to $2 billion aggregate principal amount of revolving credit under an amended and restated revolving credit facility that matures in April 2017. The credit facility (the "Credit Facility") has 18 lenders, with commitments ranging from $2.5 million to $181 million and allows us to obtain revolving loans and to issue up to $400 million of letters of credit, which upon issuance reduce the amount available for other extensions of credit. Interest is assessed on borrowings using either the LIBOR or the base rate (each as defined in the Credit Facility) plus an applicable margin between 1.25% and 2.25% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.25% and 1.25% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are currently guaranteed by three of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Embarq, QCII and Savvis, Inc., one of QCII's wholly-owned subsidiaries and one of Savvis, Inc.'s wholly-owned subsidiaries. At March 31, 2014 , we had $755 million in borrowings and no amounts of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility. 32 Under the Credit Facility, we, and our indirect subsidiary, Qwest Corporation, must maintain a debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined in our Credit Facility) ratio of not more than 4.0:1.0 and 2.85:1.0, respectively, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter for the four quarters then ended. The Credit Facility also contains a negative pledge covenant, which generally requires us to secure equally and ratably any advances under the Credit Facility if we pledge assets or permit liens on our property for the benefit of other debtholders. The Credit Facility also has a cross payment default provision, and the Credit Facility and certain of our debt securities also have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. To the extent that our EBITDA (as defined in our Credit Facility) declines for any reason, our debt to EBITDA ratios under certain debt agreements will be adversely affected. This could reduce our financing flexibility due to potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements or, in certain circumstances, could result in a default under certain provisions of such agreements. In April 2011, we entered into a $160 million uncommitted revolving letter of credit facility which enables us to provide letters of credit under terms that may be more favorable than those under the Credit Facility. At March 31, 2014 our outstanding letters of credit totaled $131 million under this facility. Future Contractual Obligations For information regarding our estimated future contractual obligations, see the MD&A discussion included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans. The accounting unfunded status or benefit obligations as of December 31, 2013 of our defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement plans were $1.055 billion and $3.153 billion , respectively. See Note 8Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 for additional information about our pension and post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plans are paid through a trust that holds all plan assets. Based on current laws and circumstances, we expect to be required to make approximately $120 million in contributions to the plans during the remaining nine months of 2014. The amount of required contributions to our plans in 2015 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest rates, demographic experience, changes in plans benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. Several trusts hold assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of December 31, 2013 , the fair value of these trust assets was $535 million ; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately three years. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trusts as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected three year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on changes in healthcare cost trends, our actual returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets, the actual timing of reimbursement payments and future changes in benefits. For 2014, our estimated annual long-term rate of return on the pension plans trust assets is 7.5% and for the post-retirement plans trust assets is 7.3% based on the assets currently held; however, actual returns could be substantially different. For additional information on factors that could influence our funding commitments under these and other plans, see "Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesPension and Post-Retirement Benefits" in this Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital ResourcesIncreases in costs for pension and healthcare benefits for our active and retired employee may reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Net Operating Loss Carryforwards We are currently using NOLs to offset a portion of our federal taxable income. We expect to deplete a significant portion of these NOLs and certain other deferred tax attributes by the end of 2014, and substantially all of these tax benefits by 2015. Once our NOLs are fully utilized, we expect that the amounts of our cash flows dedicated to the payment of federal taxes will increase substantially. The amounts of those payments will depend upon many factors, including future earnings, tax law changes and future tax circumstances. For additional information, see "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" appearing in Item 1A of Part II of this report. 33 Historical Information The following table summarizes our consolidated cash flow activities: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2014 2013 (Dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,380 1,387 (7 ) Net cash used in investing activities (682 ) (584 ) 98 Net cash used in financing activities (647 ) (538 ) 109 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $ 7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to negative variances in net income adjusted for non-cash items and a decrease in the change in other current assets and liabilities, net, which includes a payment of approximately $235 million in 2014 to settle certain litigation. These decreases were substantially offset by positive variances in the changes in accounts payable, retirement benefits and accounts receivable. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. For additional information about the settlement payment, see Note 8Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $ 98 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to less proceeds received from the sale of intangible assets. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $109 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily due to net debt paydowns in 2014 versus net debt proceeds in 2013 offset somewhat by reductions in the dividends paid and in common stock repurchases. During the three months ended March 31, 2014 , we repurchased 10.4 million shares of the company's outstanding common stock in the open market. These shares were repurchased for an aggregate market price of $319 million , or an average purchase price of $30.63 per share. The repurchased common stock has been retired. For additional information, see "Liquidity and Capital ResourcesStock Repurchase Programs" above. Certain Matters Related to Acquisitions Qwest's pre-acquisition debt obligations consisted primarily of debt securities issued by QCII and two of its subsidiaries while Savvis' remaining long-term debt obligations consist primarily of capital leases, all of which are now included in our consolidated debt balances. The indentures governing Qwest's debt securities contain customary covenants that restrict the ability of Qwest or its subsidiaries from making certain payments and investments, granting liens and selling or transferring assets. Based on current circumstances, we do not anticipate that these covenants will significantly restrict our ability to manage cash balances or transfer cash between entities within our consolidated group of companies as needed. In accounting for the Qwest acquisition, we recorded Qwest's debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $12.292 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value of Qwest's debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $693 million, which we recorded as a premium. The table below summarizes the portions of this premium recognized as a reduction to interest expense or extinguished during the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 From April 1, 2011 thru December 31, 2013 Total Since Acquisition (Dollars in millions) Amortized $ 12 302 314 Extinguished (1) 276 276 Total premiums recognized $ 12 578 590 _______________________________________________ (1) See "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements" for more information The remaining premium of $103 million as of March 31, 2014 will reduce interest expense in future periods, unless otherwise extinguished. 34 Other Matters CenturyLink has cash management arrangements with certain of its principal subsidiaries, in which substantial portions of the subsidiaries' cash is regularly advanced to CenturyLink. Although CenturyLink periodically repays these advances to fund the subsidiaries' cash requirements throughout the year, at any given point in time CenturyLink may owe a substantial sum to our subsidiaries under these advances, which, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are eliminated in consolidation and therefore not recognized on our consolidated balance sheets. We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. See Note 8Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for the current status of such legal proceedings. Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations and fluctuations in certain foreign currencies. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and periodically implements strategies to manage the exposure. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of March 31, 2014 , we had no such instruments outstanding. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We do not believe that there were any material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements, (ii) disclosed in Note 15Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 or (iii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" above. Other Information Our website is www.centurylink.com. We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. Certain of the industry and market data (such as the size of certain markets and our position within these markets) used throughout this report are based on independent industry publications, government publications, reports by market research firms or other published independent sources. Some market data and statistical information are also based on our good faith estimates, which are derived from our review of internal surveys, as well as the independent sources listed above. This information may prove to be inaccurate because of the method by which we obtain some of the data for our estimates or because this information cannot always be verified with certainty due to the limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and other limitations and uncertainties. As a result, although we believe these sources are reliable, we have not independently verified the information and cannot guarantee its accuracy and completeness. 35 In addition to historical information, this MD&A includes certain forward-looking statements that are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date of this report concerning future developments and events, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are inherently speculative and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or implied by us in those statements if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change, including product displacement; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including the outcome of regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment, data protection and net neutrality); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions; our ability to successfully integrate recently-acquired operations into our incumbent operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from our recent acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demand for high-speed broadband services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; the adverse impact on our business and network from possible equipment failures, security breaches or similar attacks on our network; our ability to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in projected amounts; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; our ability to maintain favorable relations with our key business partners, suppliers, vendors, landlords and financial institutions;any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us; changes in our operating plans, corporate strategies, dividend payment plans or other capital allocation plans, including those caused by changes in our cash requirements, capital expenditure needs, debt obligations, pension funding requirements, cash flows, or financial position, or other similar changes; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced in this report (including in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report) or from time to time in other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business and our recent acquisitions are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 , as updated and supplemented by our subsequent SEC reports, including this report. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Furthermore, any information about our intentions contained in any of our forward-looking statements reflects our intentions as of the date of this report, and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory and technological environment, industry and competitive conditions, and economic and market conditions, and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, strategies or plans (including our dividend or stock repurchase plans) at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. 36