ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "CenturyLink," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CenturyLink, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 of Part I refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See the last paragraph of this Item 2 of Part I and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report for a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our anticipated results or otherwise impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 , and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report. The results of operations and cash flows for the first three months of the year are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations and cash flows that might be expected for the entire year. We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of services to our residential and business customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance voice, broadband, Multi-Protocol Label Switching ("MPLS"), private line (including special access), Ethernet, colocation, hosting (including cloud hosting and managed hosting), data integration, video, network, public access, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP"), information technology and other ancillary services. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. At March 31, 2017 , we operated 10.9 million access lines in 37 states and served 5.9 million broadband subscribers. Our methodology for counting access lines and broadband subscribers, which is described further in the operational metrics table below under "Results of Operations", may not be comparable to those of other companies. Pending Acquisition of Level 3 On October 31, 2016, we entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we propose to acquire Level 3 Communications, Inc. (Level 3) in a cash and stock transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, Level 3 shareholders will receive $26.50 per share in cash and 1.4286 of CenturyLink shares for each share of Level 3 common stock they own at closing. CenturyLink shareholders are expected to own approximately 51% and Level 3 shareholders are expected to own approximately 49% of the combined company at closing. On December 31, 2016 , Level 3 had outstanding $ 10.9 billion of long-term debt. The merger agreement was approved by CenturyLink and Level 3 shareholders at special meetings held on March 16, 2017. Completion of the transaction is subject to (i) the receipt of regulatory approvals, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, (ii) approvals from the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") and certain state regulatory authorities and (iii) other customary closing conditions. Subject to these conditions, we anticipate closing this transaction by the end of the third quarter 2017. During the first quarter of 2017, we recognized $10 million of acquisition and integration expenses associated with our activities related to the pending Level 3 acquisition. We have not yet recognized various other expenses that are contingent on completion of the acquisition. These expenses include financial advisory fees and compensation expense comprised of severance and stock-based compensation for stock-based awards that will vest in connection with the acquisition. Most of these contingent expenses will be recognized in our consolidated financial statements in the period in which the acquisition occurs, with the remainder recognized thereafter. Compensation expense related to retention bonuses are accrued from the date of the offer through the date they are paid. The final amount of compensation expense to be recognized is partially dependent upon personnel decisions that will be made as part of integration planning. These amounts may be material. 25 Upon completion of the acquisition, Level 3's assets and liabilities will be revalued and recorded at fair value. The assignment of fair value will require a significant amount of judgment. The use of fair value measures will affect the comparability of our post-acquisition financial information and may make it more difficult to predict earnings in future periods. For example, Level 3 has certain deferred costs and deferred revenues on its balance sheet associated with capacity leases. Based on the accounting guidance for business combinations, these existing deferred costs and deferred revenues are expected to be assigned little or no value in the purchase price allocation process and will thus be eliminated. For unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information relating to the acquisition, see the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC by us on February 13, 2017. This pro forma financial information is based upon preliminary purchase price allocations and various assumptions and estimates, all of which we urge you to carefully consider in connection with your review of such information. Sale of Data Centers and Colocation Business On November 3, 2016, we entered into a definitive stock purchase agreement to sell our data centers and colocation business to a consortium led by BC Partners, Inc. and Medina Capital ("the Purchaser") in exchange for cash and a minority stake in the consortium's newly-formed global secure infrastructure company, Cyxtera Technologies. As part of the transaction, the Purchaser assumed our capital lease obligations, which amounted to $297 million as of March 31, 2017 , related to the properties that we sold. Cyxtera Technologies acquired the 57 data centers May 1, 2017. This business generated revenues of $153 million and $155 million (excluding revenue with affiliates) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively (a small portion of which will be retained by us). We received initial pre-tax cash proceeds of $1.86 billion , which is subject to customary post-closing adjustments. We plan to use a portion of these after-tax net cash proceeds to partly fund our acquisition of Level 3. See Note 3Sale of Data Centers and Colocation Business to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information. New Organizational Structure Effective January 11, 2017, we implemented a new organizational structure designed to further strengthen our ability to attain our operational, strategic and financial goals. Prior to this reorganization, we operated and reported as two segments, business and consumer. As a result of this reorganization, we changed the name of the predecessor business segment to the "enterprise" segment. We now report the following two segments: Enterprise Segment. This segment consists generally of providing strategic, legacy and data integration products and services to small, medium and enterprise business, wholesale and governmental customers, including other communication providers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our MPLS, Ethernet, colocation, broadband, VoIP and other ancillary services. Our legacy services offered to these customers primarily include local and long-distance voice, including the sale of unbundled network elements ("UNEs"), which allow our wholesale customers to use all or part of our network to provide voice and data services to their customers, private line (including special access), switched access and other ancillary services. Our data integration offerings include the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related products and professional services, all of which are described further below under the heading "Product and Service Categories"; and Consumer Segment. This segment consists generally of providing strategic and legacy products and services to residential customers. Our strategic products and services offered to these customers include our broadband, video (including our Prism TV services) and other ancillary services. Our legacy services offered to these customers include local and long-distance voice and other ancillary services. In connection with our January 2017 reorganization, we also reassigned our information technology, managed hosting, cloud hosting and hosting area network services from our former business segment to a new non-reportable operating segment. 26 Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions except per share amounts) Operating revenues $ 4,209 4,401 Operating expenses 3,578 3,713 Operating income 631 688 Interest expense and other (expense) income, net (324 ) (308 ) Income tax expense 144 144 Net income $ 163 236 Basic earnings per common share $ 0.30 0.44 Diluted earnings per common share $ 0.30 0.44 The following table summarizes our access lines, broadband subscribers and number of employees: As of March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2017 2016 (in thousands) Operational metrics: Total access lines (1) 10,945 11,611 (666 ) (6 )% Total broadband subscribers (1) 5,945 6,056 (111 ) (2 )% Total employees 40.0 42.8 (2.8 ) (7 )% ______________________________________________________________________ (1) Access lines are lines reaching from the customers' premises to a connection with the public network and broadband subscribers are customers that purchase broadband connection service through their existing telephone lines, stand-alone telephone lines, or fiber-optic cables. Our methodology for counting our access lines and broadband subscribers includes only those lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. It also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. We count lines when we install the service. During the last decade, we have experienced revenue declines primarily due to declines in access lines, private line customers, switched access rates and minutes of use. To mitigate these revenue declines, we remain focused on efforts to, among other things: promote long-term relationships with our customers through bundling of integrated services; provide a wide array of diverse services, including enhanced or additional services that may become available in the future due to, among other things, advances in technology or improvements in our infrastructure; provide our broadband and premium services to a higher percentage of our customers; pursue acquisitions of additional assets if available at attractive prices; increase prices on our products and services if and when practicable; increase the capacity, speed and usage of our networks; and market our products and services to new customers. 27 Operating Revenues From time to time, we change the categorization of our products and services, and we may make similar changes in the future. During the second quarter of 2016, we determined that because of declines due to customer migration to other strategic products and services, certain of our enterprise low-bandwidth data services, specifically our private line (including special access) services in our enterprise segment, are more closely aligned with our legacy services than with our strategic services. As described in greater detail in Note 9Segment Information, these operating revenues are reflected as legacy services. We categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily broadband, MPLS, Ethernet, colocation, hosting (including cloud hosting and managed hosting), video (including our facilities-based video services, which we offer in 16 markets), VoIP, information technology and other ancillary services; Legacy services , which include primarily local and long-distance voice, including the sale of UNEs, private line (including special access), Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") (which use regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), switched access and other ancillary services; Data integration , which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related products and professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our governmental and business customers; and Other operating revenues, which consists primarily of Connect America Fund ("CAF") support payments, Universal Service Fund ("USF") support payments and USF surcharges. We receive federal support payments from both Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the CAF program, and support payments from both federal and state USF programs. These support payments are government subsidies designed to reimburse us for various costs related to certain telecommunications services, including the costs of deploying, maintaining and operating voice and broadband infrastructure in high-cost rural areas where we are not able to fully recover our costs from our customers. We also collect USF surcharges based on specific items we list on our customers' invoices to fund the Federal Communications Commission's ("FCC") universal service programs. We also generate other operating revenues from the leasing and subleasing of space in our office buildings, warehouses and other properties. Because we centrally manage the activities that generate these other operating revenues, these revenues are not included in our segment revenues. The following table summarizes our consolidated operating revenues recorded under our four revenue categories: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Strategic services $ 2,000 1,989 11 1 % Legacy services 1,803 1,988 (185 ) (9 )% Data integration 118 116 2 2 % Other 288 308 (20 ) (6 )% Total operating revenues $ 4,209 4,401 (192 ) (4 )% Our total operating revenues decreased by $192 million , or 4% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in our total operating revenues was primarily due to lower legacy services revenues, which decreased by $ 185 million , or 9% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decline in our legacy services revenues reflects the continuing loss of access lines and loss of long-distance revenues primarily due to the displacement of traditional wireline telephone services by other competitive products and services, including data and wireless communication services, and reductions in the volume of our private line (including special access) services. We estimate that the rate of our access lines losses will be between 4.0% and 6.0% over the full year of 2017. The growth in our strategic services revenues was primarily due to increased demand for our Ethernet, MPLS and facilities-based video services, which were partially offset by declines in our managed hosting services and our satellite video services revenues due to the restructuring of one of our contractual agreements and losses of broadband subscribers. 28 Data integration revenues, which are typically more volatile than our other sources of revenues, increased by $2 million , or 2% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in our data integration revenues was primarily due to increases in governmental and business sales and maintenance services. Other operating revenues decreased by $20 million , or 6% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily due to lower federal USF surcharge revenues as a result of decreases in rates and a reduction in high-cost support revenues. Further analysis of our segment operating revenues and trends impacting our performance are provided below in "Segment Results." Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our consolidated operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,888 1,900 (12 ) (1 )% Selling, general and administrative 810 837 (27 ) (3 )% Depreciation and amortization 880 976 (96 ) (10 )% Total operating expenses $ 3,578 3,713 (135 ) (4 )% Cost of Services and Products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) decreased by $ 12 million , or 1% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in our cost of services and products was primarily due to reductions in salaries and wages and employee benefits from lower headcount and USF rates, which were partially offset by increases in network expense, facility costs and content costs for Prism TV resulting from increases in content volume and rates. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $ 27 million , or 3% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to reductions in salaries and wages from lower headcount, property and other taxes, professional fees and external commissions, which were partially offset by increases in marketing and advertising expenses and employee benefits and an impairment loss on assets held for sale associated with our data centers and colocation business. Depreciation and Amortization The following table provides detail of our depreciation and amortization expense: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Depreciation $ 605 661 (56 ) (8 )% Amortization 275 315 (40 ) (13 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 880 976 (96 ) (10 )% 29 Depreciation expense decreased by $56 million , or 8% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Depreciation expense is impacted by several factors, including changes in our depreciable cost basis, changes in our estimates of the remaining economic life of certain network assets, the addition of new plant and our entry into an agreement to sell our data centers and colocation business. The depreciation expense related to our plant for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was lower than the depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 due to full depreciation and retirement of certain plant placed in service prior to 2017 . Additionally, we ceased depreciating property, plant and equipment assets of our data centers and colocation business when we entered into the agreement to sell that business. We estimate that we would have recorded additional depreciation expense during the first quarter 2017 of $40 million if we had not agreed to sell the data centers and colocation business. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense attributable to new plant placed in service since March 31, 2016 . Amortization expense decreased by $40 million , or 13% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in amortization expense was primarily due to the use of accelerated amortization for a portion of our customer relationship assets and our entry into an agreement to sell our data centers and colocation business. The effect of using an accelerated amortization method results in an incremental decline in expense each period as the intangible assets amortize. We ceased amortizing the intangible assets of our data centers and colocation business when we entered into the agreement to sell that business. We estimate that we would have recorded additional amortization expense during the first quarter 2017 of $10 million if we had not agreed to sell the data centers and colocation business. In addition, amortization of capitalized software was lower due to software becoming fully amortized faster than new software was acquired or developed. Further analysis of our segment operating expenses by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Other Consolidated Results The following table summarizes our total other expense, net and income tax expense: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (318 ) (331 ) (13 ) (4 )% Other (expense) income, net (6 ) 23 (29 ) nm Total other expense, net $ (324 ) (308 ) 16 5 % Income tax expense $ 144 144 % _______________________________________________________________________________ nm-Percentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $13 million , or 4% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decline in interest expense was primarily due to a reduction in the amount of coupon interest on senior notes and an increase in the amount of interest capitalized into property, plant and equipment. Other (Expense) Income, Net Other (expense) income, net reflects certain items not directly related to our core operations, including our share of income from partnerships we do not control, interest income, gains and losses from non-operating asset dispositions, foreign currency gains and losses and components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs. Other (expense) income, net decreased by $ 29 million , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in other (expense) income, net was primarily due to the increase in pension and post-retirement benefit expense, which is now recorded to other (expense) income, net. See Note 1Background, "Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements" on our adoption of ASU 2017-07 and Note 6Employee Benefits for additional information. 30 Income Tax Expense For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , our effective income tax rate was 46.9% and 37.9% , respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 includes the tax impact of certain employee stock based compensation transactions, the tax impact of the sale and related corporate actions we have taken regarding certain subsidiaries involved in the data centers and colocation business as described in Note 3Sale of Data Centers and Colocation Business and the effects of changes in state apportionment factors. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 includes the effects of changes in state apportionment factors. Segment Results General For financial reporting purposes, we have determined that we have two reportable segments, enterprise and consumer. The results of our enterprise and consumer segments are summarized below: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Total segment revenues $ 3,768 3,931 Total segment expenses 1,930 1,930 Total segment income 1,838 2,001 Total margin percentage 49 % 51 % Enterprise segment: Revenues $ 2,356 2,442 Expenses 1,321 1,319 Income 1,035 1,123 Margin percentage 44 % 46 % Consumer segment: Revenues $ 1,412 1,489 Expenses 609 611 Income 803 878 Margin percentage 57 % 59 % Allocation of Revenues and Expenses Our segment revenues include all revenues from our strategic services, legacy services and data integration as described in more detail above under "Operating Revenues." Segment revenues are based upon each customer's classification as either enterprise or consumer. We report our segment revenues based upon all services provided to that segment's customers. For information on how we allocate expenses to our segments, as well as other additional information about our segments, see Note 9Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. 31 Enterprise Segment The operations of our enterprise segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. Our mix of total enterprise segment revenues continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our small, medium and enterprise business, wholesale and governmental customers increasingly demand integrated data, broadband and voice services. We compete against other telecommunication providers, as well as other regional and national carriers, other data transport providers, cable companies, CLECs and other enterprises, some of whom are substantially larger than us. Competition is based on price, bandwidth, quality and speed of service, promotions and bundled offerings. In providing broadband services, we compete primarily with cable companies, wireless providers, technology companies and other broadband service providers. Our Ethernet-based services in the wholesale market face competition from cable companies and competitive fiber-based telecommunications providers. Customers' demand for new technology has also increased the number of competitors offering strategic services similar to ours. Price compression resulting from these above-mentioned competitive pressures has negatively impacted the operating margins of our strategic services, and we expect this trend to continue. Operating costs also impact the operating margins of our strategic services, but to a lesser extent than price compression and customer disconnects. These operating costs include employee costs, sales commissions, software costs on selected services, installation costs and third-party facility costs. We believe increases in operating costs have generally had a greater impact on the operating margins of our strategic services as compared to our legacy services, principally because our strategic services rely more heavily upon the above-listed support functions; Legacy services. We continue to experience customers migrating away from our higher margin legacy services into lower margin strategic services. Our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price compression. In particular, our access, local services and long-distance revenues have been, and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected by customer migration to more technologically advanced services offered by us and our competitors, an increase in the use of non-voice communications and a related decrease in the demand for traditional voice services, industry consolidation and price compression caused by regulation and rate reductions. For example, many of our enterprise segment customers are substituting cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued declines of our legacy services revenues. Demand for our private line services (including special access) continues to decline due to our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration to higher-speed services. Although our legacy services generally face fewer direct competitors than certain of our strategic services, customer migration and, to a lesser degree, price compression from competitive pressures have negatively impacted our legacy revenues and the operating margins of our legacy services. We expect this trend to continue. Operating costs, such as installation costs and third-party facility costs, have also negatively impacted the operating margins of our legacy services, but to a lesser extent than customer loss, customer migration and price compression. Operating costs also tend to impact our legacy services to a lesser extent than strategic services as noted above; Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from year to year as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal, state and local governmental customers, many of whom have experienced substantial budget cuts over the past several years, with the possibility of additional future budget cuts. Our data integration operating margins are typically smaller than most of our other offerings; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our segment operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions, while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. However, our ongoing efforts to increase revenue will continue to require that we incur higher costs in some areas. We also expect our enterprise segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 32 The following table summarizes the results of operations from our enterprise segment: Enterprise Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) %Change 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: Strategic services High-bandwidth data services (1) $ 769 738 31 4 % Other strategic services (2) 315 315 % Total strategic services revenues 1,084 1,053 31 3 % Legacy services Voice services (3) 573 622 (49 ) (8 )% Low-bandwidth data services (4) 314 365 (51 ) (14 )% Other legacy services (5) 268 287 (19 ) (7 )% Total legacy services revenues 1,155 1,274 (119 ) (9 )% Data integration 117 115 2 2 % Total revenues 2,356 2,442 (86 ) (4 )% Segment expenses 1,321 1,319 2 % Segment income $ 1,035 1,123 (88 ) (8 )% Segment margin percentage 44 % 46 % ____________________________________________________________________ (1) Includes MPLS and Ethernet revenue (2) Includes primarily colocation, broadband, VOIP and video revenue (3) Includes local and long-distance voice revenue (4) Includes private line (including special access) revenue (5) Includes UNEs, public access, switched access and other ancillary revenue Segment Revenues Enterprise segment revenues decreased by $ 86 million , or 4% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in enterprise segment revenues was primarily due to declines in our legacy services revenues. The decline in legacy services revenues was attributable to a reduction in local service access lines and lower volumes of long-distance and access services resulting from the competitive and technological factors noted above and to reductions in the volume of private line (including special access) services. The increase in our strategic services revenues was primarily due to increases in MPLS unit growth and higher Ethernet and VOIP volumes. The increase in our data integration revenues was primarily due to increases in governmental and business sales and maintenance services. Segment Expenses Enterprise segment expenses increased by $ 2 million , or less than 1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in our enterprise segment expenses was primarily due to increases in facility costs, bad debt expense and network expense, which were partially offset by decreases in salaries and wages and marketing and advertising expenses. Segment Income Enterprise segment income decreased by $ 88 million , or 8% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decline in our enterprise segment income was due predominantly to the loss of customers and lower service volumes in our legacy services. 33 Consumer Segment The operations of our consumer segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below: Strategic services. In order to remain competitive and attract additional residential broadband subscribers, we believe it is important to continually increase our broadband network's scope and connection speeds. As a result, we continue to invest in our broadband network, which allows for the delivery of higher-speed broadband services to a greater number of customers. We compete in a maturing broadband market in which most consumers already have broadband services and growth rates in new subscribers have slowed. Moreover, as described further in Item 1A of Part II of this report, certain of our competitors continue to provide broadband services at higher average transmission speeds than ours or through advanced wireless data service offerings, both of which we believe have impacted the competitiveness of certain of our broadband offerings. Our associated content costs continue to increase and the video business has become more competitive as more options become available to customers to access video services through new technologies. The demand for new technology has increased the number of competitors offering strategic services similar to ours. Price compression and new technology from our competitors have negatively impacted the operating margins of our strategic services, and we expect this trend to continue. Operating costs also impact the operating margins of our strategic services. These operating costs include employee costs, marketing and advertising expenses, sales commissions, Prism TV content costs and installation costs. We believe increases in operating costs have generally had a greater impact on our operating margins of our strategic services as compared to our legacy services, principally because our strategic services rely more heavily upon the above-listed costs; Legacy services. Our voice revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and lower long-distance voice service volumes. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice services and electronic mail, texting and social networking non-voice services for traditional voice telecommunications services. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business. As a result of the expected loss of higher margin services associated with access lines, we continue to offer our customers service bundling and other product promotions to help mitigate this trend, as described below. Customer migration and price compression from competitive pressures have not only negatively impacted our legacy revenues, but they have also negatively impacted the operating margins of our legacy services and we expect this trend to continue. Operating costs, such as installation costs and facility costs, have also negatively impacted the operating margins of our legacy services, but to a lesser extent than customer migration and price compression. Operating costs also tend to impact our legacy services margins to a lesser extent than our strategic services margins as noted above; Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle broadband services with other services such as local voice, video, long-distance and wireless. While we believe our bundled service offerings can help retain customers, they also tend to lower our profit margins in the consumer segment due to the related discounts; and Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our segment operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. We also expect our consumer segment to benefit indirectly from enhanced efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 34 The following table summarizes the results of operations from our consumer segment: Consumer Segment Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) % Change 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Segment revenues: Strategic services Broadband services (1) $ 661 667 (6 ) (1 )% Other strategic services (2) 103 107 (4 ) (4 )% Total strategic services revenues 764 774 (10 ) (1 )% Legacy services Voice services (3) 575 634 (59 ) (9 )% Other legacy services (4) 73 80 (7 ) (9 )% Total legacy services revenues 648 714 (66 ) (9 )% Data integration 1 (1 ) nm Total revenues 1,412 1,489 (77 ) (5 )% Segment expenses 609 611 (2 ) % Segment income $ 803 878 (75 ) (9 )% Segment margin percentage 57 % 59 % _____________________________________________________________________ nm-Percentages greater than 200% and comparisons between positive and negative values or to/from zero values are considered not meaningful. (1 ) Includes broadband and related services revenue (2 ) Includes video and other revenue (3 ) Includes local and long-distance voice revenue (4 ) Includes other ancillary revenue Segment Revenues Consumer segment revenues decreased by $ 77 million , or 5% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in our consumer segment revenues was primarily due to declines in both our strategic services revenues and our legacy services revenues. The decrease in our strategic services revenues was primarily due to a decline in the number of broadband subscribers and a reduction in our satellite video services revenues due to the restructuring of one of our contractual agreements, which were partially offset by increases in the number of our Prism TV customers. The decrease in our legacy services revenues was primarily due to lower local and long-distance voice service volumes associated with access line losses resulting from the competitive and technological factors noted above. Segment Expenses Consumer segment expenses decreased by $ 2 million , or less than 1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in our consumer segment expenses was primarily due to decreases in marketing and advertising expenses, bad debt expense and external commissions, which were partially offset by increases in costs related to Prism TV (resulting from higher content volume and rates). Segment Income Consumer segment income decreased by $ 75 million , or 9% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease was primarily due to loss of customers from legacy services and increases in the costs related to the growth in Prism TV. 35 Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview At March 31, 2017 , we held cash and cash equivalents of $214 million and we had $1.625 billion of borrowing capacity available under our $2 billion amended and restated revolving credit facility (referred to as our "Credit Facility", which is described further below). At March 31, 2017 , cash and cash equivalents of $75 million were held in foreign bank accounts for the purpose of funding our foreign operations. Due to various factors, our access to foreign cash is generally much more restricted than our access to domestic cash. Our executive officers and our Board of Directors periodically review our sources and potential uses of cash in connection with our annual budgeting process. Generally speaking, our principal funding source is cash from operating activities, and our principal cash requirements include operating expenses, capital expenditures, income taxes, debt repayments, dividends, periodic stock repurchases, periodic pension contributions and other benefits payments. As discussed below, the amount we pay for income taxes is expected to increase for most of 2017, and the amount we pay for retiree healthcare benefits is expected to increase substantially in 2017. The impact of the sale of our data centers and colocation business and the potential impact of the pending acquisition of Level 3 are further described below. Based on our current capital allocation objectives, during the remaining nine months of 2017 we anticipate expending approximately $1.9 billion of cash for capital investment in property, plant and equipment and almost $293 million per quarter of dividends on our common stock (based on the assumptions described below under "Dividends"), assuming solely for these purposes no impact from the Level 3 acquisition. During the remainder of 2017 , we have debt maturities of $1.421 billion , scheduled debt principal payments of $17 million and capital lease and other fixed payments of $41 million , excluding liabilities that we expect to assume later in 2017 in connection with consummating the Level 3 acquisition. Each of the expenditures are described further below. We will continue to monitor our future sources and uses of cash, and anticipate that we will make adjustments to our capital allocation strategies when, as and if determined by our Board of Directors. We typically use our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity for operating activities and our other cash requirements. Impact of the Sale of Our Data Centers and Colocation Business As discussed in Note 3Sale of Data Centers and Colocation Business to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, we sold our data centers and colocation business on May 1, 2017 and received pre-tax cash proceeds of $1.86 billion from the sale, which is subject to customary post-closing adjustments. We anticipate we will make additional tax payments relating to the sale of approximately $75 million to $150 million , which are triggered by the sale and certain corporate restructuring actions we took regarding certain subsidiaries involved in the colocation business. We also expect ongoing cash flows from operating activities will be negatively impacted by approximately $30 million to $45 million per quarter. Potential Impact of the Pending Acquisition of Level 3 If, as anticipated, we complete the acquisition of Level 3 by the end of third quarter of 2017 in the manner discussed in Note 2Pending Acquisition of Level 3 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, we expect our operations, financial position and cash flows to be significantly impacted following the closing of the transaction. We expect to issue a significant amount of new debt to finance the Level 3 acquisition, and we would assume approximately $10.9 billion of Level 3s outstanding debt upon consummating the acquisition. With this additional debt, we would expect our cash paid for interest payments to be significantly higher following the closing of the transaction. We project that our capital expenditures would increase significantly. Based on information included in Level 3s publicly available annual guidance regarding its estimated 2017 capital expenditures, we anticipate that Level 3 will spend approximately $100 million to $125 million per month on average, in the period prior to closing, but that amount could be significantly different than amounts that we expect to spend in the months following the closing of the transaction. In connection with consummating the acquisition, we would expect to issue approximately 538 million shares of our common stock to Level 3 stockholders (including shares of CenturyLink common stock expected to be issued in exchange for outstanding Level 3 equity awards), based on the number of Level 3 shares held of record on January 25, 2017. Based on our current quarterly common stock dividend rate of $0.54 per share, this issuance of additional shares would result in an additional incremental dividend payment of approximately $290 million per quarter. Also, we expect our upcoming cash payments for transaction costs, integration costs and debt financing costs to be material primarily following the closing of the transaction. These above factors are expected to result in a net cash outflow for the period of 2017 following the closing. However, we expect we will have sufficient liquidity to more than offset the impact of the net cash outflows. As noted below under "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements," the Level 3 transaction could also adversely impact our credit ratings. 36 Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted impact on revenue growth, productivity, expenses, service levels and customer retention) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash flow generated by operating activities, cash required for other purposes and regulatory considerations (such as our CAF Phase 2 infrastructure buildout requirements). Based on current circumstances, we estimate that our total capital expenditures for the remainder of 2017 will be approximately $1.9 billion , inclusive of CAF Phase 2 related capital expenditures, but exclusive of additional capital expenditures with respect to Level 3's operations that we expect to acquire later this year. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services. For more information on our capital spending, see Item 1 of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Debt and Other Financing Arrangements On May 4, 2017 , Qwest Corporation redeemed all $500 million of its 6.5% Notes due 2017, which resulted in an immaterial loss . On April 27, 2017 , Qwest Corporation issued $ 575 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% Notes due 2057 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and other expenses, of $ 555 million . All of the 6.75% Notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed by Qwest Corporation, in whole or in part, on or after June 15, 2022, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. On April 3, 2017 , CenturyLink, Inc. paid at maturity the $500 million principal and accrued and unpaid interest due under its 6.00% Notes. Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to issue debt securities from time to time in the future to refinance a substantial portion of our maturing debt, including issuing Qwest Corporation debt securities to refinance its maturing debt to the extent feasible. The availability, interest rate and other terms of any new borrowings will depend on the ratings assigned to us and Qwest Corporation by credit rating agencies, among other factors. As of the date of this report, the credit ratings for the senior unsecured debt of CenturyLink, Inc. and Qwest Corporation were as follows: Agency CenturyLink, Inc. Qwest Corporation Standard & Poor's BB BBB- Moody's Investors Service, Inc. Ba3 Ba1 Fitch Ratings BB+ BBB- Our credit ratings are reviewed and adjusted from time to time by the rating agencies, and downgrades of CenturyLink, Inc.'s senior unsecured debt ratings could, under certain circumstances, incrementally increase the cost of our borrowing under the Credit Facility. Moreover, any additional downgrades of CenturyLink, Inc.'s or Qwest Corporation's senior unsecured debt ratings could impact our access to debt capital or further raise our borrowing costs. See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Following the announcement of our pending acquisition of Level 3, Standard & Poor's indicated that CenturyLink, Inc.'s current unsecured senior debt rating of BB has been placed on watch with negative implications, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. indicated that CenturyLink, Inc.'s current senior unsecured debt rating of Ba3 has been placed on review for downgrade and Fitch Ratings indicated that CenturyLink, Inc.'s current unsecured senior debt rating of BB+ has been placed on negative watch. Additionally, Qwest Corporation's current unsecured senior debt rating of Ba1 has been placed on review for downgrade by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its current unsecured senior debt rating of BBB- has been placed on negative watch by Fitch Ratings. It is expected that any downgrades would be made only following the completion of the Level 3 acquisition. 37 Net Operating Loss Carryforwards In recent years, we have been using Net Operating Loss ("NOL") carryforwards to offset a large portion of our federal taxable income. As of December 31, 2016 , we have substantially utilized our federal NOL carryforwards. A portion of these remaining NOL carryforwards are subject to the limitations imposed by section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code"). As a result of the substantial utilization of the NOL carryforwards in prior years and the limitations imposed on portions of the remaining NOL carryforward balance, the amounts of our cash flows dedicated to or required for the payment of federal taxes has increased and is expected to continue to increase substantially during 2017 prior to our anticipated acquisition of additional NOLs later this year in connection with the Level 3 acquisition, as described further below. The amounts of our near-term tax payments will depend upon many factors, including our future earnings and tax circumstances. Based on current laws (including the extension of bonus depreciation) and our current estimates of 2017 earnings, we estimate our cash income tax liability related to 2017 will be between $400 million to $500 million , exclusive of (i) tax payments relating to the sale of our data centers and colocation business of approximately $75 million to $150 million and (ii) the impact of acquiring Level 3. Based on information publicly available, as of December 31, 2016, Level 3 had approximately $9.0 billion of NOL carryforwards that we expect to acquire in connection with the Level 3 transaction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to use these NOL carryforwards fully. See "Risk FactorsRisk Relating to Our Pending Acquisition of Level 3We cannot assure you, whether, when or in what amounts we will be able to use Level 3's net operating loss carryforwards following the Level 3 acquisition" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Dividends We currently expect to continue our current practice of paying quarterly cash dividends in respect of our common stock subject to our Board of Directors' discretion to modify or terminate this practice at any time and for any reason without prior notice. Our current quarterly common stock dividend rate is $0.54 per share, as approved by our Board of Directors, which we believe is a dividend rate per share that gives us the flexibility to balance our multiple objectives of managing our business, paying our fixed commitments and returning cash to our shareholders. Assuming continued payment during 2017 at this rate of $0.54 per share, our average total dividends paid each quarter prior to the Level 3 acquisition would be $293 million based on our current number of outstanding shares (which does not reflect shares that we expect to issue in connection with the Level 3 acquisition or any other shares that we might issue or repurchase in future periods). See "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting Our Business" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. Credit Facility Our $2 billion Credit Facility matures on December 3, 2019 and has 16 lenders, each with commitments ranging from $3.5 million to $198.5 million . The Credit Facility allows us to obtain revolving loans and to issue up to $400 million of letters of credit, which upon issuance reduces the amount available for other extensions of credit. Interest is assessed on borrowings using either the LIBOR or the base rate (each as defined in the Credit Facility) plus an applicable margin between 1.00% and 2.25% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.00% and 1.25% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by nine of our subsidiaries. At March 31, 2017 , we had $375 million in borrowings and no amounts of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility. Under the Credit Facility, we, and our indirect subsidiary, Qwest Corporation, must maintain a debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined in our Credit Facility) ratio of not more than 4.0:1.0 and 2.85:1.0 , respectively, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter for the four quarters then ended. The Credit Facility also contains a negative pledge covenant, which generally requires us to secure equally and ratably any advances under the Credit Facility if we pledge assets or permit liens on our property for the benefit of other debtholders. The Credit Facility also has a cross payment default provision, and the Credit Facility and certain of our debt securities also have cross acceleration provisions. When present, these provisions could have a wider impact on liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. Our debt to EBITDA ratios could be adversely affected by a wide variety of events, including unforeseen expenses or contingencies. This could reduce our financing flexibility due to potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements or, in certain circumstances, could result in a default under certain provisions of such agreements. Term Loans and Revolving Letter of Credit At March 31, 2017 , CenturyLink, Inc. owed $330 million under a term loan maturing in 2019 and Qwest Corporation owed $100 million under a term loan maturing in 2025. Both of these term loans include covenants substantially similar to those set forth in the Credit Facility. 38 We have a $160 million uncommitted revolving letter of credit facility which enables us to provide letters of credit under terms that may be more favorable than those under the Credit Facility. At March 31, 2017 , our outstanding letters of credit totaled $106 million under this facility. For information on our outstanding debt securities, see Note 4Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Level 3 Financing Commitment Letter In connection with entering into our merger agreement with Level 3, we obtained a commitment letter from a group of lenders to provide debt financing to us under certain conditions. See Note 4Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans. At December 31, 2016 , the accounting unfunded status of our qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and qualified post-retirement benefit plans was $2.409 billion and $3.360 billion , respectively. See Note 9Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 for additional information about our pension and post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plan are paid through a trust that holds all of the plan's assets. Based on current laws and circumstances, we do not expect any contributions to be required for our qualified pension plan during the remainder of 2017. The amount of required contributions to our qualified pension plan in 2018 and beyond will depend on a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including earnings on plan investments, prevailing interest rates, demographic experience, changes in plan benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. We occasionally make voluntary contributions in addition to required contributions. We currently expect to make a voluntary contribution of $100 million to the trust for our qualified pension plan during the remaining nine months of 2017. Substantially all of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. Several trusts hold assets that have been used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. Assets in the post-retirement trusts have been substantially depleted as of December 31, 2016; however, we will continue to pay certain benefits through the trusts. The fair value of these trust assets was $53 million at December 31, 2016, with a portion comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. Benefits not paid through the trusts are expected to be paid directly by us. As described further in Note 9Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K, aggregate benefits paid by us under these plans (net of participant contributions and direct subsidy receipts) were $129 million , $116 million and $88 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, while the amounts paid from the trust were $145 million , $163 million and $219 million , respectively. For additional information on our expected future benefits payments for our post-retirement benefit plans, please see Note 9Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our annual report Form 10-K. For 2017 , our estimated annual long-term rates of return are 6.5% and 5.0% for the pension plan trust assets and post-retirement plans trust assets, respectively, based on the assets currently held. However, actual returns could be substantially different. Future Contractual Obligations For information regarding our estimated future contractual obligations, see the MD&A discussion included in Item 7 of Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Workforce Reductions In response to the continued decline of our legacy services revenues and to better align our workforce with our workload requirements, we periodically implement workforce reduction programs. In the third quarter of 2016, we announced plans to reduce our workforce, initially through voluntary severance packages and the balance through involuntary reductions. The payments of severance benefits to terminated employees began in the fourth quarter of 2016 and continued through the first quarter of 2017. We made severance and other one-time termination benefit payments of $74 million in the first quarter of 2017 associated with the 2016 workforce reduction plan and additional customary workforce reductions. Connect America Fund As a result of accepting CAF Phase 2 support payments for 33 states, we will be obligated to make substantial capital expenditures to build broadband infrastructure over the next several years. See "Capital Expenditures" above. 39 For additional information on the FCC's CAF order and the USF program, see "BusinessRegulation" in Item 1 of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 and see "Risk FactorsRisks Affecting our Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 1A of Part II of this report. In 2013, under the CAF Phase 1 Round 2 program, we received $40 million in funding for deployment of broadband services in rural areas. In compliance with program terms, during the second half of 2016 we returned $23 million for failing to meet interim buildout milestones within the FCC specified time frames. As of March 31, 2017 , we have included $16 million of funding in deferred credits and other liabilities - other on our consolidated balance sheet. At the conclusion of the CAF 1 Round 2 program in the second quarter of 2017, we will have an opportunity to reclaim a significant portion of the interim refund if we ultimately meet the CAF 1 Round 2 buildout targets. Historical Information The following table summarizes our consolidated cash flow activities: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,057 1,423 (366 ) Net cash used in investing activities (732 ) (605 ) 127 Net cash used in financing activities (333 ) (506 ) (173 ) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $366 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily due to negative variances in other current assets and liabilities, net, accounts payable and net income adjusted for non-cash items, which were partially offset with positive variances in accounts receivable and changes in other noncurrent current assets and liabilities, net. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased by $127 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 substantially due to an increase in payments for property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $173 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily due to a substantial reduction in net paydowns on the credit facility and revolving line of credit, which was partially offset by a reduction in the net proceeds received from the issuance of long-term debt. See Note 4Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for additional information on our outstanding debt securities. Other Matters In February 2015, the FCC adopted new regulations that regulate broadband services as a public utility service under Title II of the Communications Act. In light of pending litigation and changes in the composition of the FCC, we believe it is premature for us to determine the ultimate impact of the new regulations on our operations. For additional information, see Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters in Item 1A of Part II of this report. CenturyLink, Inc. has cash management arrangements with certain of its principal subsidiaries, in which substantial portions of the subsidiaries' cash is regularly advanced to it. Although CenturyLink, Inc. periodically repays these advances to fund the subsidiaries' cash requirements throughout the year, at any given point in time it may owe a substantial sum to its subsidiaries under these advances, which, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are eliminated in consolidation and therefore not recognized on our consolidated balance sheets. We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could substantially impact our financial position. See Note 10Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report for the current status of such legal proceedings. 40 Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations and fluctuations in certain foreign currencies. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. Management periodically reviews our exposure to interest rate fluctuations and periodically implements strategies to manage the exposure. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of March 31, 2017 , we had no such instruments outstanding. We have established policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative instrument activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. By operating internationally, we are exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the foreign currencies used by our international subsidiaries, primarily the British Pound and secondarily the Canadian Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Hong Kong Dollar and the Singapore Dollar. Although the percentages of our consolidated revenues and costs that are denominated in these currencies are immaterial, future volatility in exchange rates and an increase in the number of transactions could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations. We do not believe that there were any material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates or fluctuations in foreign currencies for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , when compared to the disclosures provided in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the computation of exposures to market risks. Actual values may differ materially from those disclosed by us from time to time if market conditions vary from the assumptions used in the analyses performed. These analyses only incorporate the risk exposures that existed at March 31, 2017 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements, (ii) disclosed in Note 16Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 , or in the Future Contractual Obligations table included in Item 7 of Part II of the same report, or (iii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" above. Other Information Our website is www.centurylink.com. We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). From time to time, we also use our website to webcast our earnings calls and certain of our meetings with investors or other members of the investment community. 41 In addition to historical information, this quarterly report includes certain forward-looking statements that are based upon our judgment and assumptions as of the date of this report concerning future developments and events, many of which are beyond our control. These forward-looking statements, and the assumptions upon which they are based, are not guarantees of future results, are inherently speculative and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected or implied by us in those statements if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers, including decreased demand for our legacy offerings and increased pricing pressures; the effects of new, emerging or competing technologies, including those that could make our products less desirable or obsolete; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry, including the outcome of regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, interconnection obligations, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment, data protection and net neutrality; our ability to successfully complete our pending acquisition of Level 3, including the timely receipt of all requisite financing and all regulatory approvals free of any detrimental conditions, and to timely realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including our ability to attain anticipated cost savings, to use Level 3s net operating losses in the amounts projected, to retain key personnel and to avoid unanticipated integration disruptions; our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix; possible changes in the demand for our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demand for high-speed broadband service; our ability to successfully maintain the quality and profitability of our existing product and service offerings, to provision them efficiently to our customers, and to introduce new offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; the adverse impact on our business and network from possible equipment failures, service outages, security breaches or similar events impacting our network; our ability to generate cash flows sufficient to fund our financial commitments and objectives, including our capital expenditures, operating costs, periodic share repurchases, dividends, pension contributions and other benefits payments, and debt repayments; changes in our operating plans, corporate strategies, dividend payment plans or other capital allocation plans, whether based upon changes in our cash flows, cash requirements, financial performance, financial position, market conditions or otherwise; our ability to effectively retain and hire key personnel and to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; increases in the costs of our pension, health, post-employment or other benefits, including those caused by changes in markets, interest rates, mortality rates, demographics or regulations; adverse changes in our access to credit markets on favorable terms, whether caused by changes in our financial position, lower debt credit ratings, unstable markets or otherwise; our ability to maintain favorable relations with our key business partners, suppliers, vendors, landlords and financial institutions; our ability to effectively manage our network buildout project and our other expansion opportunities; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled customers; any adverse developments in legal or regulatory proceedings involving us; changes in tax, communications, pension, healthcare or other laws or regulations, in governmental support programs, or in general government funding levels; the effects of changes in accounting policies or practices, including potential future impairment charges; the effects of adverse weather or other natural or man-made disasters; the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in operating costs, in general market, labor, economic or geo-political conditions, or in public policy; and other risks referenced in Item 1A or elsewhere in this quarterly report or other of our filings with the SEC. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely upon our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Furthermore, any information about our intentions contained in any of our forward-looking statements reflects our intentions as of the date of this report, and is based upon, among other things, existing regulatory, technological, industry, competitive, economic and market conditions, and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, strategies or plans (including our dividend or stock repurchase plans) at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. 42