ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "CenturyLink," "we," "us" and "our" refer to CenturyLink, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Qwest Communications International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (referred to as "Qwest") for periods on or after April 1, 2011 and including SAVVIS, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (referred to as "Savvis") for periods on or after July 15, 2011. All references to "Notes" in this Item 2 refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this quarterly report. Certain statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. See "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Overview Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") included herein should be read in conjunction with MD&A and the other information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. The results of operations for the first three months of the year are not indicative of the results of operations that might be expected for the entire year. We are an integrated communications company engaged primarily in providing an array of communications services to our residential, business, governmental and wholesale customers. Our communications services include local and long-distance, network access, private line (including special access), public access, broadband, data, managed hosting (including cloud hosting), colocation, wireless, and video services. In certain local and regional markets, we also provide local access and fiber transport services to competitive local exchange carriers and security monitoring. We strive to maintain our customer relationships by, among other things, bundling our service offerings to provide our customers with a complete offering of integrated communications services. As of March 31, 2012, we operated 14.4 million access lines in 37 states, and served 5.6 million broadband subscribers. During 2011, we updated our methodology for counting access lines and broadband subscribers. Our access line methodology includes only those access lines that we use to provide services to external customers and excludes lines used solely by us and our affiliates. Our methodology also excludes unbundled loops and includes stand-alone broadband subscribers. Our methodology for counting access lines may not be comparable to those of other companies. We also operate 51 data centers throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of CenturyLink, Inc. ("CenturyLink") and its majority-owned subsidiaries. These subsidiaries include Savvis beginning July 15, 2011, and Qwest beginning April 1, 2011. For more information, see Note 2Acquisitions. Due to the significant size of these acquisitions, direct comparisons of our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012 to the three months ended March 31, 2011 are less meaningful than usual. We discuss below, under "Segment Results", certain trends that we believe are significant to the combined company. We have recognized the assets and liabilities of Savvis based on our preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values. The determination of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. As such, we have not completed our valuation analysis and calculations in sufficient detail necessary to arrive at the final estimates of the fair value of Savvis' assets acquired and liabilities assumed, along with the related allocations to goodwill and intangible 27 Table of Contents assets. The fair values of certain tangible assets, intangible assets, contingent liabilities and residual goodwill are the most significant areas not yet finalized and therefore are subject to change. We expect to complete our final fair value determinations no later than the second quarter of 2012. Our final fair value determinations may be significantly different than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements at March 31, 2012. In the discussion that follows, we refer to the business that we operated prior to the Qwest acquisition as "Legacy CenturyLink" and refer to the incremental business activities that we now operate as a result of the Savvis acquisition as "Legacy Savvis" and the Qwest acquisition as "Legacy Qwest." Due to the magnitude of our recent acquisitions in relation to Legacy CenturyLink operations, in the combined company variance discussions below we have separately reflected the impacts of both the Legacy Qwest and Legacy Savvis operations for enhanced visibility, although we actively manage the combined company through our four segments, as discussed further below. We have incurred operating expenses related to our acquisition of Savvis in July 2011, Qwest in April 2011 and Embarq Corporation ("Embarq") in July 2009. These expenses are reflected in cost of services and products and selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of operations as summarized below. Cost of services and products: Integration and other expenses associated with acquisitions $ 4 13 Severance expenses, accelerated recognition of share-based awards and retention compensation associated with acquisitions 1 $ 4 14 Selling, general and administrative: Integration and other expenses associated with acquisitions $ 9 19 Severance expenses, accelerated recognition of share-based awards and retention compensation associated with acquisitions 26 2 $ 35 21 This table does not include costs incurred by Qwest or Savvis prior to being acquired by us. Based on current plans and information, we estimate that, in relation to our Qwest acquisition, we will incur approximately $800 million to $1 billion of operating expenses associated with transaction and integration costs (which includes approximately $429 million of cumulative expenses incurred through March 31, 2012) and approximately $200 million of capital expenditures associated with integration activities (which includes approximately $32 million of cumulative capital expenditures incurred through March 31, 2012). Our business is organized into the following operating segments: Regional markets , which consists primarily of providing products and services to residential consumers, small to medium-sized businesses and regional enterprise customers; 28 Table of Contents Business markets , which consists primarily of providing products and services to enterprise and government customers; Wholesale markets , which consists primarily of providing products and services to other communications providers; and Savvis operations, which consists primarily of providing hosting and network services primarily to business customers provided by Legacy Savvis. The business markets segment currently provides some of the same services as our Savvis operations segment. We report financial information separately for each of these segments; however, our segment information does not include capital expenditures, total assets, or certain revenues and expenses that we manage on a centralized basis. As we continue to integrate our recent acquisitions, we plan to make further changes to the way we assess performance and make decisions about allocating resources, which will likely change our segment reporting. Our segment results are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that our segments would have achieved had they operated as stand-alone entities during the periods presented. For additional information about our segments, see Note 9Segment Information and "Results of OperationsSegment Results" below. In the first quarter of 2012, we announced we were restructuring our operating segments effective April 1, 2012. We will consolidate our operations serving our business and government customers into two organizations. National and international business markets customers, all Savvis customers (except as noted below) and federal government customers will be served by the new enterprise markets group which we intend on managing in two segments: the network services segment and the data hosting services segment. Large business customers and state and local government customers in our local service area will be served by the existing regional markets segment. Wholesale customers currently in our Savvis operations segment will be served by the wholesale markets segment after our restructuring. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, presented in a manner that we believe will be useful for understanding the relevant trends affecting our business. Our operating results include operations of Savvis for periods after July 15, 2011, and Qwest for periods after April 1, 2011. Operating revenues $ 4,610 1,696 Operating expenses 3,956 1,232 Operating income 654 464 Other income (expense) (323 ) (125 ) Income tax expense 131 128 Net income $ 200 211 Employees (as of March 31) 47,900 20,300 EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Basic $ .32 .69 Diluted $ .32 .69 29 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our operational metrics: Operational metrics: Broadband subscribers 5,643 2,403 104 3,136 3,240 Access lines 14,379 6,382 (416 ) 8,413 7,997 During the last several years, we have experienced revenue declines (excluding the impact of acquisitions) primarily due to declines in access lines, intrastate access rates and minutes of use. Prior to its acquisition, Qwest had experienced similar declines in its revenues. To mitigate these declines, we remain focused on efforts to, among other things: promote long-term relationships with our customers through bundling of integrated services; provide new services, such as video, cloud hosting, managed hosting, colocation services and other additional services that may become available in the future due to advances in technology, wireless spectrum sales by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") or improvements in our infrastructure; provide our broadband and premium services to a higher percentage of our customers; pursue acquisitions of additional communications properties if available at attractive prices; increase usage of our networks; and market our products and services to new customers. Operating Revenues We currently categorize our products, services and revenues among the following four categories: Strategic services , which include primarily private line (including special access which we market to business customers who require dedicated equipment to transmit large amounts of data between sites), broadband, hosting (including cloud hosting and managed hosting), colocation, Multi-Protocol Label Switching ("MPLS") (which is a data networking technology that can deliver the quality of service required to support real-time voice and video), video (including resold satellite and our facilities-based video services), voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") and Verizon Wireless services; Legacy services , which include primarily local, long-distance, switched access, public access, integrated services digital network ("ISDN") (which uses regular telephone lines to support voice, video and data applications), and traditional wide area network ("WAN") services (which allows a local communications network to link to networks in remote locations); Data integration , which includes the sale of telecommunications equipment located on customers' premises and related professional services, such as network management, installation and maintenance of data equipment and building of proprietary fiber-optic broadband networks for our government and business customers; and 30 Table of Contents Other, which consists primarily of universal service fund ("USF") revenue and surcharges. Strategic services $ 2,056 539 44 1,207 266 1,517 Legacy services 2,143 995 (100 ) 1,248 1,148 Data integration 145 31 (2 ) 116 114 Other 266 131 3 132 135 Total operating revenues $ 4,610 1,696 (55 ) 2,703 266 2,914 Total operating revenues increased due to our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis. Legacy CenturyLink operating revenues decreased $55 million, or 3.2%, during the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. This decrease was primarily attributable to declines in legacy services revenues, which reflected the continuing loss of access lines in our markets. At March 31, 2012, we had 14.4 million access lines, of which 8.4 million were in Legacy Qwest's markets. Access lines in our Legacy CenturyLink markets declined to 6.0 million at March 31, 2012 from 6.4 million at March 31, 2011, a decrease of 6.7%. We believe the decline in the number of access lines was primarily due to the displacement of traditional wireline telephone services by other competitive products and services. We estimate that our access lines loss will be between 5.9% and 6.6% in 2012. Our legacy services revenues were also negatively impacted in 2012 by the continued migration of customers to bundled service offerings at lower effective rates. The decreases in our legacy services revenues were partially offset by higher revenues from strategic services revenues. Private line and broadband services accounted for a majority of the growth in strategic services revenues. Further analysis of our operating revenues by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." Operating Expenses As discussed in Note 1Basis of Presentation, we changed the definitions we use to classify expenses as cost of services and products and selling, general and administrative, and have reclassified prior period amounts to conform to our new definitions. Our operating expenses increased substantially in comparison to 2011 primarily due to our acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis. 31 Table of Contents The following tables summarize our operating expenses: Cost of services and products (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,877 626 29 1,082 140 1,251 Selling, general and administrative 871 237 82 483 69 634 Depreciation and amortization 1,208 369 23 741 75 839 Total operating expenses $ 3,956 1,232 134 2,306 284 2,724 As discussed in the "overview" section, our operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2012 included substantial severance and integration costs related to the Qwest and Savvis acquisitions, as well as significant acquisition accounting adjustments to depreciation and amortization expense (see Note 2Acquisitions and Note 3Goodwill, Customer Relationships and Other Intangible Assets). Cost of services and products for Legacy CenturyLink operations increased slightly for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to increased costs associated with expanding our facilities-based video infrastructure. Legacy CenturyLink selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to increased salaries and wages and employee benefits. There was also a slight increase in bad debt expense for the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011. Effective January 1, 2012, we changed our rates of capitalized labor as we transitioned certain of Qwest's legacy systems to our historical company systems. This transition resulted in an estimated $15 million to $20 million increase in the amount of labor capitalized as an asset compared to the amount that would have been capitalized if Qwest had labor related to the same projects with its legacy systems and a corresponding estimated $15 million to $20 million decrease in operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2012. This change is expected to result in an estimated operating expense reduction of approximately $60 million to $80 million for the year ending December 31, 2012. Excluding the effects of the acquisitions of Qwest and Savvis, depreciation expense for Legacy CenturyLink increased primarily due to the impact of changes to our estimates of the economic lives of certain telecommunications equipment. Further analysis of our operating expenses by segment is provided below in "Segment Results." 32 Table of Contents Other Consolidated Results The following tables summarize our total other income (expense) and income tax expense: Interest expense $ (343 ) (128 ) 40 169 6 215 Other income 20 3 8 9 17 Total other income (expense) $ (323 ) (125 ) 32 160 6 198 Income tax expense 131 128 nm nm nm 3 nmAttributing changes in income tax expense to the acquisitions of Savvis, Qwest and Embarq is considered not meaningful. Interest Expense Interest expense increased primarily due to debt assumed in the Qwest acquisition and incurred subsequent to that acquisition. See Note 4Long-term Debt and Credit Facilities and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for additional information about our debt. Interest expense for Legacy CenturyLink increased $40 million, or 31.3%, during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to interest on our $2 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes that we issued in June 2011 to finance the Savvis acquisition, partially offset by principal repayments made during 2011 and the first quarter of 2012. Other Income Other income reflects certain items not directly related to our core operations, including gains and losses from non-operating asset dispositions and impairments, our share of income from our 49% interest in a cellular partnership, interest income and foreign currency gains and losses. Other income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to the gain on the redemption of QCII's 7.50% Notes due in 2014 and a gain on the sale of our auction rate securities. See Note 4Long-term Debt and Credit Facilities and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for additional information about our debt. Income Tax Expense For the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, our pre-tax income and our income tax expense was relatively unchanged. 33 Table of Contents Segment Results Segment information is summarized below: Total segment revenues $ 4,344 1,565 Total segment expenses 1,990 582 Total segment income $ 2,354 983 Total margin percentage 54% 63% Regional markets: Revenues $ 2,204 1,119 Expenses 922 433 Income $ 1,282 686 Margin percentage 58% 61% Business markets: Revenues $ 917 64 Expenses 581 28 Income $ 336 36 Margin percentage 37% 56% Wholesale markets: Revenues $ 957 382 Expenses 278 121 Income $ 679 261 Margin percentage 71% 68% Savvis operations: Revenues $ 266 Expenses 209 Income $ 57 Margin percentage 21% In connection with the reorganization of our segments during 2011, we also revised the way we categorize our segment revenues and segment expenses. Our major categories of products and services are strategic services, legacy services, data integration and other, each of which is described in more detail in "Operating Revenues" above. We report our segment expenses for regional markets, business markets and wholesale markets as follows: Direct expenses , which primarily are specific, incremental expenses incurred as a direct result of providing services and products to segment customers, along with selling, general and administrative expenses that are directly associated with specific segment customers or activities; and Allocated expenses , which are determined by applying activity-based costing and other methodologies to include network expenses, facilities expenses and other expenses such as fleet, product management and real estate expenses. 34 Table of Contents During the first quarter of 2012, as we transitioned certain of Qwest's legacy systems to our historical company systems, we have updated how we report our direct expenses and have updated our methodology for how we allocate our expenses to our segments. Specifically, we no longer include certain fleet expenses for our regional markets segment in direct expenses; they are now allocated expenses in our regional markets, business markets and wholesale markets segments. In addition, we now more fully allocate network building rent and power expenses to our regional markets, business markets and wholesale markets segments. We have not recast our segment results for prior periods to reflect these changes in methodology, as it was deemed impracticable to do so. For Savvis operations, segment expenses incorporate the entire centrally-managed operations of our Savvis subsidiaries as we have yet to fully integrate them with our other segments. Consequently, all Savvis operations segment expenses have been categorized as direct expenses. We intend to continue to refine our expense methodology in conjunction with the reorganization of our operating segments as discussed earlier. We do not assign depreciation and amortization expense to our segments, as the related assets and capital expenditures are centrally-managed. Other unassigned operating expenses consist primarily of expenses for centrally-managed administrative functions (such as finance, information technology, legal and human resources), severance expenses and restructuring expenses. Interest expense is also excluded from segment results because we manage our financing on a total company basis and have not allocated assets or debt to specific segments. In addition, other income (expense) does not relate to our segment operations and is therefore excluded from our segment results. Regional Markets The operations of our regional markets segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below. The discussion that follows generally applies to both our Legacy CenturyLink markets and our Legacy Qwest markets for periods after the April 1, 2011 acquisition date. Strategic services. We continue to focus on increasing subscribers of our broadband services in our regional markets segment. In order to remain competitive, we believe continually increasing connection speeds is important. As a result, we continue to invest in our fiber to the node, or FTTN, deployment, which allows for the delivery of higher speed broadband services. While traditional ATM-based broadband services are declining, they have been more than offset by growth in fiber-based broadband services. We also continue to expand our product offerings including facilities-based video services and enhance our marketing efforts as we compete in a maturing market in which most consumers already have broadband services. We expect these efforts will improve our ability to compete and increase our strategic revenues. Facilities-based video expenses. As we continue to expand our facilities-based video service infrastructure, we are incurring start-up expenses in advance of the revenue that this service is expected to generate. Although, over time, we expect that our revenue for facilities-based video services will offset the expenses incurred, the timing of this revenue growth is uncertain. Access lines. Our voice revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses. Intense competition and product substitution continue to drive our access line losses. For example, many consumers are substituting cable and wireless voice and electronic mail and social networking services for traditional voice telecommunications services. We expect that these factors will continue to impact our business. Service bundling and other product promotions, as described below, continue to be some of our responses to offset the loss of revenues as a result of access line losses. 35 Table of Contents Service bundling and product promotions. We offer our customers the ability to bundle multiple products and services. These customers can bundle local services with other services such as broadband, video, long-distance and wireless. While our video and wireless services are an important piece of our customer retention strategy, they do not significantly contribute to our strategic services revenues. However, we believe customers value the convenience of, and price discounts associated with, receiving multiple services through a single company. While bundle price discounts have resulted in lower average revenues for our individual products, we believe service bundles continue to positively impact our customer retention. In addition to our bundle discounts, we also offer from time to time limited time promotions on our broadband service, which we believe further aids our ability to attract and retain customers and increase usage of our services. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our workload requirements, productivity improvements and changes in industry, competitive, technological and regulatory conditions. The following table summarizes the results of operations from our regional markets segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 764 315 15 434 449 Legacy services 1,411 777 (57 ) 691 634 Data integration 29 27 2 2 Total revenues 2,204 1,119 (42 ) 1,127 1,085 Segment expenses: Direct 903 447 1 455 456 Allocated 19 (14 ) 21 12 33 Total expenses 922 433 22 467 489 Segment income $ 1,282 686 (64 ) 660 596 Segment margin percentage 58% 61% Segment Income The acquisition of Qwest on April 1, 2011 largely contributed to an increase in our regional markets segment income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. Segment Revenues Excluding 2012 revenues attributable to the Qwest acquisition, regional markets revenues decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. Growth in strategic services revenues did not fully offset a decline in legacy services revenues. The higher amounts of strategic services revenues are due principally to volume increases in our facilities-based video and increases in the number of broadband subscribers. Legacy services revenues decreased primarily due to declines in local and long-distance services associated with access line losses resulting from competitive pressures. 36 Table of Contents Segment Expenses Regional markets expenses, exclusive of Legacy Qwest expenses, increased for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011, primarily due to increased allocated expenses, while direct expenses remained flat. Allocated expenses increased primarily due to our updated methodology of allocating expenses to our segments during the first quarter of 2012. As described above, we now more fully allocate network building rent and power expenses, which accounted for the increase in our allocated expenses. Our regional markets segment incurs expenses to support the network on behalf of our business markets and wholesale markets operations. These expenses are reported as direct expenses in our regional markets segment and allocated to business markets and wholesale markets through our expense allocation methodology. Business Markets The operations of our business markets segment have been impacted by several significant trends, including those described below. The discussion that follows generally applies to both our Legacy CenturyLink markets and our Legacy Qwest markets for periods after the April 1, 2011 acquisition date. Strategic services. Our mix of total segment revenues continues to migrate from legacy services to strategic services as our enterprise and government customers increasingly demand customized and integrated data, Internet and voice services. We offer diverse combinations of emerging technology products and services such as private line, MPLS, hosting, and VoIP services. We believe these services afford our customers more flexibility in managing their communications needs and enable us to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their operations. Although we are experiencing price compression on our strategic services due to competition, we expect overall revenues from these services to grow. Legacy services. We face intense competition with respect to our legacy services and continue to see customers migrating away from these services and into strategic services. In addition, our legacy services revenues have been, and we expect they will continue to be, adversely affected by access line losses and price compression. Data integration. We expect both data integration revenue and the related costs will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as this offering tends to be more sensitive than others to changes in the economy and in spending trends of our federal government customers. Operating efficiencies. We continue to evaluate our operating structure and focus. This involves balancing our workforce in response to our productivity improvements while achieving operational efficiencies and improving our processes through automation. We also expect our business markets segment to benefit indirectly from efficiencies in our company-wide network operations. 37 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the results of operations from our business markets segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 450 14 2 434 436 Legacy services 351 46 (4 ) 309 305 Data integration 116 4 (2 ) 114 112 Total revenues 917 64 (4 ) 857 853 Segment expenses: Direct 244 1 5 238 243 Allocated 337 27 14 296 310 Total expenses 581 28 19 534 553 Segment income $ 336 36 (23 ) 323 300 Segment margin percentage 37% 56% Segment Income The acquisition of Qwest on April 1, 2011 substantially increased the scale of our business markets segment, resulting in an increase in our segment income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. Our segment margin percentage declined in 2012 as a result of a change in product mix as more services are now provided outside of our local service area. Legacy Qwest operations accounted for 93.4% of our business markets segment revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2012. Segment Revenues Legacy CenturyLink business markets revenues decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. This decrease primarily reflected lower revenues from legacy services driven by access line losses and lower data integration revenues due to lower sales of data integration equipment. Growth in our strategic services revenues was not enough to offset the decreases in our legacy services and data integration revenues. Segment Expenses Legacy CenturyLink business markets expenses increased for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. Direct expenses increased primarily due to increased employee related expenses resulting from a larger sales force in 2012. Allocated expenses increased due to an increased allocation of network and facilities expenses along with additional network building rent and power expenses due to our updated methodology of allocating expenses as described above. Wholesale Markets The discussion that follows generally applies to both our Legacy CenturyLink markets and our Legacy Qwest markets for periods after the April 1, 2011 acquisition date. 38 Table of Contents Private line services (including special access). Demand for our private line services continues to increase, despite our customers' optimization of their networks, industry consolidation and technological migration. While we expect that these factors will continue to impact our wholesale markets segment, we ultimately believe the growth in our fiber-based special access services provided to wireless carriers for backhaul will, over time, offset the decline in copper-based special access services provided to wireless carriers as they migrate to Ethernet services, and bandwidth consumption grows, although the timing and magnitude of this technological migration is uncertain. Access and local services revenues. Our access and local services revenues have been and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected by regulation, technological migration, industry consolidation and rate reductions. For example, wholesale consumers are substituting cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services, resulting in continued access revenue loss. We expect these factors will continue to adversely impact our wholesale markets segment. Long-distance services revenues. Wholesale long-distance revenues continue to decline as a result of customer migration to more technologically advanced services, price compression, declining demand for traditional voice services and industry consolidation. The following table summarizes the results of operations from our wholesale markets segment: Segment revenues: Strategic services $ 576 210 27 339 366 Legacy services 381 172 (39 ) 248 209 Total revenues 957 382 (12 ) 587 575 Segment expenses: Direct 47 32 2 13 15 Allocated 231 89 (2 ) 144 142 Total expenses 278 121 157 157 Segment income $ 679 261 (12 ) 430 418 Segment margin percentage 71% 68% Segment Income The acquisition of Qwest on April 1, 2011 largely contributed to an increase in our wholesale markets segment income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. Segment income for our Legacy CenturyLink operations decreased slightly for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011, primarily reflecting declines in our legacy services revenues as discussed further below. Segment Revenues Excluding 2012 revenues attributable to the Qwest acquisition, wholesale markets revenues decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended 39 Table of Contents March 31, 2011. This decrease reflects substantially lower revenues from legacy services, partially offset by growth in revenues from strategic services. The decrease in legacy services revenues reflects continuing declines in access, long-distance and local services volumes and revenues due to the substitution of cable, wireless and VoIP services for traditional voice telecommunications services. Growth in strategic services revenues was due to increases in our private line and special access services revenues. Segment Expenses Wholesale markets expenses, exclusive of Legacy Qwest expenses, were flat for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. Wholesale markets allocated expenses decreased due to a lower allocation of network and facilities expenses. This decrease was partially offset by the allocation of certain network building rent and power expenses due to our updated expense allocation methodology. Savvis Operations The operations of our Savvis operations segment could be impacted by several significant trends, including those described below. Colocation. Colocation is designed for clients seeking data center space and power for their server and networking equipment needs. Our data centers provide our clients around the world with a secure, high-powered, purpose-built location for their IT equipment. We anticipate continued pricing pressure for these services as wholesale vendors enter the enterprise colocation market; however, we believe that our data center expansion strategy can help mitigate these pricing challenges. Managed hosting. Managed hosting services provide a fully managed solution for a customer's IT infrastructure and network needs, and include dedicated and cloud hosting services, utility and computing storage, consulting and managed security services. We expect increasing pricing pressure on the managed hosting business from competing cloud computing offerings. However, we remain focused on expanding our managed hosting business, specifically in our cloud service offerings, which we believe is a key to growth. We believe that we have continued to strengthen our cloud position in the market by adding differentiating features to our cloud products. Network services. Network services are comprised of our managed network services, including managed VPN, hosting area network and bandwidth services. Segment income for these services has been relatively flat due to pricing pressures on VPN and bandwidth services, offset by increases in network services that support our colocation and managed hosting service offerings. 40 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the operating results of Savvis operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to March 31, 2011; which was prior to the July 15, 2011 acquisition date: Strategic services $ 266 266 Segment expenses 209 209 Segment income $ 57 57 Segment margin percentage 21% Segment Revenues Segment revenues for our Savvis operations were mainly derived from (i) colocation services of $103 million which were 38.7% of our segment revenues, (ii) managed hosting services of $99 million which were 37.2% of our segment revenues and (iii) network services of $64 million, which were 24.1% of our segment revenues. Segment Expenses Segment expenses attributed to Savvis operations were derived primarily from cost of services and products of $140 million, selling, general and administrative expenses of $69 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of March 31, 2012, we held cash and cash equivalents of $1.530 billion compared to $128 million as of December 31, 2011 and had $1.7 billion available under our revolving credit facility, which is described further below. During the first quarter of 2012, we received net proceeds of $2.032 billion from the issuance of senior notes issued in anticipation of paying down portions of our long-term debt (including using a portion of these net proceeds to redeem $800 million of debt on March 1, 2012), causing our cash balances to be unusually high at March 31, 2012. We have generally relied on cash provided by operations and our revolving credit facility to fund our operating and capital expenditures, make our dividend payments and repay a portion of our maturing debt. Our operations have historically provided a stable source of cash flow that has helped us meet the needs of the business. As of March 31, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $761 million, reflecting current liabilities of $5.643 billion and current assets of $4.882 billion, compared to a working capital deficit of $511 million as of December 31, 2011. The change in our working capital position is primarily due to $2.200 billion in current maturities of long-term debt as of March 31, 2012 compared to $480 million as of December 31, 2012, partially offset by increased cash balances due to proceeds from the issuance of debt as described above. We anticipate that our existing cash balances and net cash provided by operating activities, which were significantly enhanced by our acquisition of Qwest, will enable us to meet our other current obligations, fund capital expenditures and pay dividends to our shareholders. We also may draw on our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity if and when necessary. 41 Table of Contents We currently expect to continue our current annual dividend of $2.90 per common share, subject to our board's discretion. Debt and Other Financing Arrangements On April 23, 2012, Embarq redeemed the remaining $200 million of its 6.738% Notes due 2013, which resulted in an immaterial loss. On April 18, 2012, CenturyLink, Inc. entered into a term loan in the amount of $440 million with CoBank and several other Farm Credit System banks. This term loan is payable in 29 consecutive quarterly installments of $5.5 million in principal plus interest through April 18, 2019, when the balance will be due. We have the option of paying quarterly interest based upon either the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or the base rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus an applicable margin between 1.50% to 2.50% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.50% to 1.50% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. Our term loan is guaranteed by two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Embarq and Qwest Communications International Inc. ("QCII"), and one of QCII's wholly-owned subsidiaries. On April 18, 2012, our subsidiary, Qwest Corporation ("QC"), completed a cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $811 million of 8.375% Notes due 2016 and its $400 million of 7.625% Notes due 2015. With respect to its 8.375% Notes due 2016, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $575 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 71%, for $722 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.625% Notes due 2015, QC received and accepted tenders of approximately $308 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 77%, for $369 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of this tender offer resulted in a loss of $46 million, which we will recognize in the second quarter of 2012. On April 2, 2012, QC issued $525 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Notes due 2052 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $508 million. The notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed, in whole or in part, on or after April 1, 2017 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the redemption date. On April 2, 2012, Embarq completed a cash tender offer to purchase a portion of its $528 million of 6.738% Notes due 2013 and its $2.0 billion of 7.082% Notes due 2016. With respect to its 6.738% Notes due 2013, Embarq received and accepted tenders of approximately $328 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 62%, for $360 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. With respect to its 7.082% Notes due 2016, Embarq received and accepted tenders of approximately $816 million aggregate principal amount of these notes, or 41%, for $944 million including a premium, fees and accrued interest. The completion of these tender offers resulted in a loss of $144 million, which we will recognize in the second quarter of 2012. On March 12, 2012, CenturyLink, Inc. issued $650 million aggregate principal amount of 7.65% Senior Notes due 2042 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of approximately $644 million. The notes are unsecured obligations and may be redeemed at any time. On March 12, 2012, CenturyLink, Inc. issued $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.80% Senior Notes due 2022 in exchange for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses, of $1.388 billion. The notes are also unsecured obligations and may be redeemed at any time. On March 1, 2012, QCII redeemed $800 million of its 7.50% Notes due February 15, 2014, which resulted in an immaterial gain. 42 Table of Contents On April 16, 2012, QCII committed to redeem on May 17, 2012 all $500 million of its 7.50% Notes due 2014 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the redemption date, which we expect will result in an immaterial gain. As of March 31, 2012, we had available a four-year $1.7 billion revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to expire in January 2015. On April 6, 2012, we amended and restated this revolving credit facility to increase the aggregate principal amount available to $2.0 billion and to extend the maturity date to April 2017. This amended credit facility (the "Credit Facility") has 18 lenders, with commitments ranging from $2.5 million to $177 million and allows us to obtain revolving loans and to issue up to $400 million of letters of credit, which will reduce the amount available for other extensions of credit. Interest will be assessed on future borrowings using either LIBOR or the base rate (as defined in the Credit Facility) plus an applicable margin between 1.25% and 2.25% per annum for LIBOR loans and 0.25% and 1.25% per annum for base rate loans depending on our then current senior unsecured long-term debt rating. Our obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Embarq and QCII and one of QCII's wholly-owned subsidiaries. As of March 31, 2012 and April 6, 2012, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. The remaining terms and conditions of our term loan are substantially similar to those set forth in our Credit Facility, as defined and described below. Under the Credit Facility, we are subject to various covenants, including (i) covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain asset sales, mergers or other fundamental changes or to incur liens and (ii) financial covenants that stipulate that we shall not permit our ratio of consolidated total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA to exceed 4.0 to 1.0 and the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to the sum of consolidated interest expense and preferred stock dividends to be less than 1.5 to 1.0. Our obligation to repay amounts outstanding may be accelerated upon specified events of default, including failures to make payments when due, defaults of obligations under certain other debt, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants, commencement of bankruptcy proceedings and certain other failures to discharge specified obligations or comply with specified laws. To the extent that our EBITDA is reduced by cash settlements or judgments, including in respect of any of the matters discussed in Note 10Commitments and Contingencies, our debt to EBITDA ratios under certain debt agreements will be adversely affected (with the above terms and ratios having the meanings and being calculated in the manner stipulated in the Credit Facility agreement). This could reduce our financing flexibility due to potential restrictions on incurring additional debt under certain provisions of our debt agreements or, in certain circumstances, could result in a default under certain provisions of such agreements. In April 2011, CenturyLink, Inc. entered into a $160 million uncommitted revolving letter of credit facility. As of March 31, 2012, our outstanding letters of credit totaled $129 million under this facility. As of March 31, 2012, we believe we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants of our debt agreements. Capital Expenditures We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis in order to enhance and modernize our networks, compete effectively in our markets and expand our service offerings. We evaluate capital expenditure projects based on a variety of factors, including expected strategic impacts (such as forecasted revenue growth or productivity, expense and service impacts) and our expected return on investment. The amount of capital investment is influenced by, among other things, demand for our services and products, cash generated by operating activities and regulatory considerations. We estimate our total 2012 capital expenditures to be approximately $2.7 billion to $2.9 billion. Our capital expenditures continue to be focused on our strategic services such as video, broadband and managed hosting services. Throughout 2012, we anticipate that our fiber investment, which includes fiber to the tower, or FTTT, will be slightly lower to that spent in 2011. FTTT is a type of 43 Table of Contents telecommunications network consisting of fiber-optic cables that run from a wireless carrier's mobile telephone switching office to cellular towers to enable the delivery of higher bandwidth services supporting mobile technologies than would otherwise generally be available through a more traditional copper-based telecommunications network. Pension and Post-retirement Benefit Obligations We are subject to material obligations under our existing defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans. Our plans are measured annually at December 31. As of December 31, 2011, the accounting unfunded status of pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations was $1.782 billion and $3.237 billion, respectively. See Note 6Employee Benefits to our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report for additional information about our pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements. Benefits paid by our qualified pension plans are paid through a trust. We expect to make a cash contribution of approximately $70 million during the remaining nine months of 2012. We currently expect that required and voluntary contributions for 2013 will be approximately $500 million, based on current laws and circumstances. The actual amount of required contributions to our plans in 2013 and beyond will depend on earnings on plan investments, discount rates, demographic experience, changes in plans benefits and changes in funding laws and regulations. Certain of our post-retirement health care and life insurance benefits plans are unfunded. Several trusts hold assets that are used to help cover the health care costs of certain retirees. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of the trust assets was $693 million; however, a portion of these assets is comprised of investments with restricted liquidity. We estimate that the more liquid assets in the trust will be adequate to provide continuing reimbursements for covered post-retirement health care costs for approximately four years, based on current circumstances. Thereafter, covered benefits will be paid either directly by us or from the trusts as the remaining assets become liquid. This projected four year period could be substantially shorter or longer depending on changes in projected health care costs, returns on plan assets, the timing of maturities of illiquid plan assets and future changes in benefits. Our estimated annual long-term rate of return on the pension and post-retirement plans trust assets is 7.5% based on the currently held assets; however, actual returns could vary widely in any given year. Historical Information The following table summarizes our cash flow activities (which include cash flows from Savvis and Qwest after their respective acquisition dates): Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,583 670 913 Net cash used in investing activities (663 ) (208 ) (455 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 481 (365 ) 846 Net cash provided by operating activities increased primarily due to the acquisition of Qwest and Savvis, which contributed net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $784 million and $56 million, respectively. Our consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part I in this report provide information about the components of net income and differences between net income and net 44 Table of Contents cash provided by operating activities. For additional information about our operating results, see "Results of Operations" above. Net cash used in investing activities increased primarily due to the acquisition of Qwest and Savvis, who each invested net cash of approximately $426 million and $89 million toward capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Net cash provided by financing activities increased primarily due to approximately $2.0 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt. The increase was partially offset by increases of $846 million and $132 million in the amount of our payments on our long-term debt and credit facility, respectively. The increase was also offset by a $230 million increase in dividends paid for during the three months ended March 31, 2012 due to an increase in the number of outstanding shares. Certain Matters Related to Acquisitions Qwest's pre-existing debt obligations consisted primarily of debt securities issued by QCII and two of its subsidiaries while Savvis' remaining debt obligations consist primarily of capital leases, all of which are now included in our consolidated debt balances. The indentures governing Qwest's debt securities contain customary covenants that restrict the ability of Qwest or its subsidiaries from making certain payments and investments, granting liens and selling or transferring assets. Based on current circumstances, we do not anticipate that these covenants will significantly restrict our ability to manage cash balances or transfer cash between entities within our consolidated group of companies as needed. In accounting for the Qwest acquisition, we recognized Qwest's debt securities at their estimated fair values, which totaled $12.292 billion as of April 1, 2011. Our acquisition date fair value estimates were based primarily on quoted market prices in active markets and other observable inputs where quoted market prices were not available. The fair value of Qwest's debt securities exceeded their stated principal balances on the acquisition date by $693 million, which is being recognized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining terms of the debt. Of this $693 million, $28 million was recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2012 and $8 million was extinguished in connection with the redemption and tender offer transactions summarized above under "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements". Other Matters We have cash management arrangements with certain of our principal subsidiaries, in which substantial portions of the subsidiaries' cash is regularly transferred to us in exchange for matching receivables. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, these receivables are eliminated as intercompany transactions. Although we periodically repay these receivables to fund the subsidiaries' cash requirements throughout the year, at any given point in time we may owe a substantial sum to our subsidiaries under these receivables, which is not recognized on our consolidated balance sheets. We also are involved in various legal proceedings that could have a material effect on our financial position. See Note 10Commitment and Contingencies for the current status of such legal proceedings, including matters involving Qwest. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no special purpose or limited purpose entities that provide off-balance sheet financing, liquidity, or market or credit risk support and we do not engage in leasing, hedging, or other similar activities that expose us to any significant liabilities that are not (i) reflected on the face of the consolidated financial statements or (ii) discussed under the heading "Market Risk" below. There were no substantial changes to our off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual obligations in the three 45 Table of Contents months ended March 31, 2012, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt obligations and fluctuations in certain foreign currencies. We seek to maintain a favorable mix of fixed and variable rate debt in an effort to limit interest costs and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in rates. From time to time, we have used derivative instruments to (i) lock-in or swap our exposure to changing or variable interest rates for fixed interest rates or (ii) to swap obligations to pay fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. As of the successor date of March 31, 2012, we had no such instruments outstanding. There were no material changes to market risks arising from changes in interest rates for the three months ended March 31, 2012, when compared to the disclosures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Other Information Our website is www.centurylink.com. We routinely post important investor information in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at ir.centurylink.com . The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not part of this quarterly report. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports in the "Investor Relations" section of our website ( ir.centurylink.com ) under the heading "SEC Filings." These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. In addition to historical information, this MD&A includes certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations only, and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the timing, success and overall effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers; the risks inherent in rapid technological change; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry (including those arising out of the FCC's October 27, 2011 order regarding intercarrier compensation and the USF, among other things); our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix caused by our recent acquisitions of Savvis, Qwest and Embarq; our ability to successfully integrate the operations of Savvis, Qwest and Embarq into our operations, including the possibility that the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions cannot be fully realized in a timely manner or at all, or that integrating the acquired operations will be more difficult, disruptive or costly than anticipated; our ability to use net operating loss carryovers of Qwest in projected amounts; the effects of changes in our assignment of the Savvis purchase price to identifiable assets or liabilities after the date hereof; our ability to effectively manage our expansion opportunities, including retaining and hiring key personnel; possible changes in the demand for, or pricing of, our products and services; our ability to successfully introduce new product or service offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; our continued access to credit markets on favorable terms; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled communications companies; any adverse developments in legal proceedings involving us; our ability to pay a $2.90 per common share dividend annually, which may be affected by changes in our cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flows or financial position; unanticipated increases or other changes in our future cash requirements, whether caused by unanticipated increases in capital expenditures, increases in pension funding requirements or otherwise; our ability to 46 Table of Contents successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; the effects of adverse weather; other risks referenced from time to time in this report (including in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part II of this report) or other of our filings with the SEC; and the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in tax rates, in accounting policies or practices, in operating, medical, pension or administrative costs, in general market, labor or economic conditions, or in legislation, regulation or public policy. These and other uncertainties related to our business, our July 2011 acquisition of Savvis, and our April 2011 acquisition of Qwest are described in greater detail in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as updated and supplemented by our subsequent SEC reports, including this report. You should be aware that new factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to identify all such factors nor can we predict the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any one or more factors may cause actual results to differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any of our forward-looking statements for any reason. 47 Table of Contents