Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 14. Restructuring and Related Charges in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on restructuring charges. Research and Development During fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we incurred R&D expenses of $ 148.3 million , $141.1 million and $140.8 million, respectively. The number of employees engaged in R&D was approximately 598 as of July 1, 2017 , 570 as of July 2, 2016 and 550 as of June 27, 2015 . We devote substantial resources to R&D for the development of new and enhanced products to serve our markets. Once the design of a product is complete, our engineering efforts shift to enhancing both product performance and our ability to manufacture it in greater volume and at lower cost. In our OpComms segment , we are maintaining our capability to provide products throughout the network, while focusing on several important sub-segments. We are increasing our emphasis on Datacom products, such as 100G and 400G transceivers while we continue to maintain strong investments in Telecom components and modules such as ROADMs and tunable devices needed for long-haul and metro markets. We are also responding to our customers requests for higher levels of integration, including the integration of optics, electronics and software in our modules, subsystems and circuit packs. We are providing optical technology for 3D sensing systems that simplify the way that people interact with technology. These solutions are initially being used in computing, mobile, and industrial applications, including automotive applications. In our Lasers segment, we continue to develop new product offerings in both solid-state and fiber lasers that take advantage of technologies and components we develop. These products are targeted at serving customers engaging in biotechnology, graphics and imaging, remote sensing, and materials processing and precision micromachining markets. Manufacturing Our significant manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Thailand, and Switzerland. In March 2017, we completed the purchase of a property in Thailand for additional manufacturing capacity for our future growth. Our significant contract manufacturing partners are located primarily in Thailand, Taiwan and China. Contract manufacturers can save a significant amount of dollars on labor, material and other related production expenses. We rely on the capabilities of our contract manufactures to procure the components and manage the inventory in these locations. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials We use various suppliers and contract manufacturers to supply parts and components for the manufacture and support of multiple product lines. Although our intention is to establish at least two sources of supply for materials whenever possible, for certain components we have sole or limited source supply arrangements. We may not be able to procure these components from alternative sources at acceptable prices and quality within a reasonable time, or at all; therefore, the risk of loss or interruption of such arrangements could impact our ability to deliver certain products on a timely basis. Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products include patents, trade secrets and trademarks. We do not intend to broadly license our intellectual property rights unless we can obtain adequate consideration or enter into acceptable patent cross-license agreements. As of July 1, 2017 , we own 681 U.S. patents and 241 foreign patents with expiration dates ranging from 2017 through 2035, and have 153 patent applications pending throughout the world. 9 Table of Contents Seasonality Our revenue may be influenced on a quarter to quarter basis by customer demand patterns and new product introductions. Some of our products may be incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Backlog Backlog consists of purchase orders for products for which we have assigned shipment dates. As of July 1, 2017 , our backlog was $ 218.4 million , as compared to $168.5 million as of July 2, 2016 . Due to possible changes in product delivery schedules and cancellation of product orders, and because our sales often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual revenue or the level of orders for any succeeding period. Employees As of July 1, 2017 , we employed approximately 2,057 full-time employees including approximately 1,084 employees in manufacturing, 598 employees in R&D and 375 employees in SG&A. Outside of the United States, our business is subject to labor laws that differ from those in the United States. We follow the statutory requirements of those countries where we operate. We consider our employee relations to be good. Environmental Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the United States, even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future. In connection with the Separation, we agreed to indemnify Viavi for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred to us from Viavi, to the extent the resulting issues primarily related to our business. International Operations During fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , net revenue from customers outside the United States based on the geographic region and country where our product is initially shipped, represented 85.2%, 82% and 80.6% of net revenue, respectively. In certain circumstances customers may request shipment of our products to a contract manufacturer in one country, which may differ from the location of their end customers. During fiscal 2017 , our net revenue from Hong Kong, Mexico and Japan represented 22.6%, 18.5% and 9.9% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. During fiscal 2016 , our net revenue from Hong Kong, Mexico, and Japan represented 23.7%, 12.5% and 10.3% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. During fiscal 2015 , our net revenue from Hong Kong, Mexico and Japan represented 14.4%, 13.5% and 12.7% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively. Our net revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, including our net revenue from customers outside the United States based on customer shipment locations as presented above. As of July 1, 2017 and July 2, 2016 , long-lived assets, namely our net property, plant and equipment, located outside of the United States comprised 67.8% and 62.4% of our total property, plant and equipment, net, respectively. As of July 1, 2017, 30.1% and 31.2% of our net property, plant and equipment were located in China and Thailand, respectively. As of July 2, 2016 , 25.4% and 23.9% of our net property, plant and equipment were located in China and Thailand, respectively. Please refer to Note 19. Operating Segments and Geographic Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 10 Table of Contents Available Information Our website is located at www.lumentum.com, and our investor relations website is located at www.investor.lumentum.com. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings at www.sec.gov. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including the following factors that could affect our results of operations, financial condition or stock price. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: risks related to our business, risks related to the Separation and risks related to our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Changing technology and intense competition require us to continuously innovate while controlling product costs, and our failure to do so may result in decreased revenues and profitability. The markets in which we operate are dynamic and complex, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver both our current product offerings and new products and technologies on time and at acceptable prices to our customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements, continued price pressures and a constantly evolving industry. Historically, these pricing pressures have led to a continued decline of average selling prices across our business. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and the accurate prediction of technological and market trends. The introduction of new products also requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, for which benefit may not be realized if we are not successful in the production of such products or if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of new product introductions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. We also cannot assure you that potential markets for our new products will materialize on the timelines we anticipate, or at all, or that our technology will meet our customers specifications. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, deployment and market acceptance of new and enhanced features and products that meet our customers current and future needs. The market for optical communications products in particular has matured over time and these products have increasingly become subject to commoditization. Both legacy competitors as well as new entrants, predominantly Asia-based competitors, have intensified market competition in recent years leading to pricing pressure. To preserve our revenues and product margin structures, we remain reliant on an integrated customer and market approach that anticipates end customer needs as Telecom and Datacom requirements evolve. We also must continue to develop more advanced, differentiated products that command a premium with customers, while conversely continuing to focus on streamlining product costs for established legacy products. If we fail to continue to develop enhanced or new products, or over time are unable to adjust our cost structure to continue to competitively price more mature products, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Continued competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues and market share. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems and components are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. These competitors include II-VI, Acacia Communications, Applied Optoelectronics, Coherent (including Rofin-Sinar Technologies), Finisar, Fujitsu Optical Components, Furukawa Electric, InnoLight Technology, IPG Photonics, Neophotonics, Oclaro, and Sumitomo Electric Industries. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Our competitors may continue to enter markets or gain or retain market share through introduction of new or improved products or with aggressive low pricing strategies that may impact the efficacy of our approach. Additionally, if significant competitors were to merge or consolidate, they may be able to offer a lower cost structure through economies of scale that we may be unable to match and which may intensify competition in the Lasers market. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. We compete against various public and private companies in the markets we serve. Publicly traded companies providing optical communications components include II-VI , Acacia Communications, Foxconn Interconnect Technology, Finisar, Fujitsu Optical Components, Furukawa Electric, Neophotonics, Oclaro, Applied Optoelectronic, Innolight Technology, and Sumitomo Electric Industries. The manufacturing of our products may be adversely affected if our contract manufacturers and suppliers fail to meet our production requirements or if we are unable to manufacture certain products in our manufacturing facilities. We rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain products. For many products, a particular contract manufacturer may be the sole source of the finished-good products. We depend on these manufacturers to meet our 12 Table of Contents production and capacity requirements and to provide quality products to our customers. Despite rigorous testing for quality, both by us and the contract manufacturers to whom we sell products, we may receive and ship defective products. We may incur significant costs to correct defective products which could result in the loss of future sales, indemnification costs or costs to replace or repair the defective products, litigation and damage to our reputation and customer relations. Defective products may also cause diversion of management attention from our business and product development efforts. Additionally, the ability of our contract manufacturers to fulfill their obligations may be affected by natural disasters, legal requirements and economic, political or other forces that are beyond our control. In particular, certain of our contract manufacturers are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with Chinese laws and regulations, such as those related to import and export tariffs, taxation and intellectual property. Chinese laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and if our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain or retain the requisite legal permits or otherwise to comply with Chinese legal requirements, we may be forced to obtain products from other manufacturers or to make other operational changes. Any such developments could have a material impact on our ability to meet our customers expectations and may materially impact our operating results. In addition, some of our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers are not cancellable which may impact our earnings if customer forecasts driving these purchase commitments do not materialize and we are unable to sell the products to other customers. Alternatively, our contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our demand which would inhibit our ability to meet customer demand and maintain or grow our revenues. Furthermore, it could be costly and require a long period of time to move products from one contract manufacturer to another which could result in interruptions in supply and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture some of the components that we provide to our contract manufacturers, along with our own finished goods, in our San Jose, California manufacturing facilities and, until its closure in June 2017, our Bloomfield, Connecticut manufacturing facility. For some of the components and finished good products we are the sole manufacturer. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and issues are often difficult to detect and correct. From time to time we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields in our manufacturing facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of our products. In addition, if we experience problems with our manufacturing facilities, it would be costly and require a long period of time to move the manufacture of these components and finished good products to a different facility or contract manufacturer which could then result in interruptions in supply, and would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the closing of our Bloomfield, Connecticut manufacturing facility required the transfer to other manufacturing sites of complex technologies and processes. If the other manufacturing sites are unsuccessful, it could result in interruptions in supply and would likely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in manufacturing processes are often required due to changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new products. These changes may reduce manufacturing yields at our contract manufacturers and at our own manufacturing facilities resulting in reduced margins on those products. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials, packages and components, and any failure or delay by these suppliers in meeting our requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase raw materials, packages and components from a limited number of suppliers, who are often small and specialized. We depend on the continued supply and quality of the materials, packages and components that they supply to us. Our business and results of operations have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by this dependency. Specific concerns we periodically encounter with our suppliers include receipt of defective parts or contaminated materials, stoppages or delays of supply, insufficient resources to supply our requirements, substitution of more expensive or less reliable materials, increases in the price of supplies, and an inability to obtain reduced pricing from our suppliers in response to competitive pressures. Any disruption in the supply of the raw materials, packaging or components used in the manufacture and delivery of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales; and the majority of our customers do not have contractual purchase commitments. We have consistently relied on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales (please refer to Note 19. Operating Segments and Geographic Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and we expect that this customer concentration will continue in the future. The majority of our customers purchase products under purchase orders or under contracts that do not contain volume purchase commitments. Changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers, or any real or perceived quality issues related to the products that we sell to such customers, could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. If forecasted orders do not materialize, we may need to reduce investment in R&D activities, we may fail to optimize our manufacturing capacity, or we may have excess inventory. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We contract with a number of large OEM and end-user service providers that have considerable bargaining power, which may require us to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. Large OEM and end-user service providers comprise a significant portion of our customer base. These customers generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. As we seek to expand our sales to existing customers and acquire new customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are favorable to our customers and that may affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, large customers have increased buying power and ability to require onerous terms in our contracts with them. If we are unable to satisfy the terms of these contracts, it could result in liabilities of a material nature, including litigation, damages, additional costs, loss of market share and loss of reputation. Additionally, the terms these large customers require, such as most-favored nation or exclusivity provisions, may impact our ability to do business with other customers and generate revenues from such customers. Our products may contain defects that could cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers. Our products are complex and defects may be found from time to time. Networking products in particular frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. We expect to change our international corporate structure in the near future in order to minimize our effective tax rate; however, if we are unable to adopt this structure or if it is challenged by U.S. or foreign tax authorities, we may be unable to realize such tax savings which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We have taken certain preliminary steps to implement an international corporate structure more closely aligned with our international operations. This potential corporate structure is intended to reduce our overall effective tax rate through changes among our wholly-owned subsidiaries in how we use our intellectual property, and how we structure our international procurement and sales operations. The contemplated structure includes legal entities located in jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. Such intercompany arrangements would be designed to result in income earned by such entities in accordance with arms-length principles and commensurate with functions performed, risks assumed and ownership of valuable corporate assets. We believe that income taxed in certain foreign jurisdictions at a lower rate relative to the U.S. statutory rate will have a beneficial impact on our worldwide effective tax rate over the medium to long term. We have agreed to reimburse Viavi for certain tax liabilities and related costs that may be incurred by Viavi, under certain circumstances, in the event that we implement this revised corporate structure. In addition, the implementation of such a structure has required us to incur expenses, and may require that we incur additional expenses, for which we may not realize related benefits, and in any event, we do not expect to materially realize such benefits for several years. If we put the intended structure into effect and it is not accepted by the applicable taxing authorities, if changes in domestic and international tax laws negatively impact the proposed structure, including proposed legislation to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities, or if we do not operate our business consistent with the proposed structure and applicable tax provisions, we may fail to achieve the financial and operational efficiencies that we anticipate as a result of the proposed structure, and our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We derive a majority of our revenue from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. In addition, we have extensive international manufacturing capabilities through third-party contract manufacturers, as well as through our own international facilities, with employees engaged in R&D, administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities. As a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: changes in general IT spending; the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; fluctuations in local economies; wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; political developments of foreign nations; the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, unfavorable events that affect foreign currencies, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the United States or other countries in which we operate. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationships with customers and suppliers, financial reporting problems, fines and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks with regard to our operating expenses which may affect our operating results. Although we price our products primarily in U.S. dollars, a portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. If the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to certain other foreign currencies, it would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could raise the relative cost of our products to non-U.S. customers, especially as compared to foreign competitors, and could reduce demand. Although we intend to hedge for a portion of our foreign currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net income (loss). Additionally, hedging programs rely on our ability to forecast accurately and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider, enterprise and commercial laser markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required 15 Table of Contents personnel and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products. Our ability to hire and retain employees may be negatively impacted by changes in immigration laws, regulations and procedures. Foreign nationals who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents constitute an important part of our U.S. workforce, particularly in the areas of engineering and product development. Our ability to hire and retain these workers and their ability to remain and work in the United States are impacted by laws and regulations, as well as by procedures and enforcement practices of various government agencies. Changes in immigration laws, regulations or procedures, including those that may be enacted by the new U.S. presidential administration, may adversely affect our ability to hire or retain such workers, increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our ability to deliver our products and services. We face a number of risks related to our strategic transactions. We have made acquisitions of other businesses or technologies in the past and we will continue to review acquisition and other strategic opportunities. Such strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including the following: diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business; unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions imposed upon the acquisition or transaction, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; the ability to retain and obtain required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; difficulties and costs in integrating the operations, technologies, products, IT and other systems, facilities and personnel of the purchased businesses; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process R&D; an acquisition or strategic transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments; insufficient net revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; difficulty forecasting revenues and margins; dilution of our current stockholders as a result of any issuance of equity securities as acquisition consideration; expenditure of cash that would otherwise be available to operate our business; and incurrence of indebtedness on terms that are unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay. If we are unable to successfully manage any of these risks in relation to any future acquisitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including to support product development and introduce new products, address new markets, engage in strategic transactions and partnerships, improve or expand our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. In March 2017, we issued and sold a total of $450 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due in 2024 (the "2024 Notes") and we may in the future engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing 16 Table of Contents on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. Any failure, disruption or security breach of our information technology infrastructure or information management systems could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our business depends significantly on effective and efficient information management systems, and the reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure are essential to the health and expansion of our business. For example, the information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in managing our supply chain and monitoring customer accounts, among other things. We must continue to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing requirements. In some cases, we may rely upon third-party providers of hosting, support and other services to meet our information technology requirements. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure, including our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system and other applications, any failure in the extension implementation or operation of this infrastructure, or any failure by our hosting and support partners or other third-party service providers in the performance of their services could materially harm our business. In addition, we have partnered with third parties to support our information technology systems and to help design, build, test, implement and maintain our information management systems. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity may also require transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems within our overall enterprise architecture. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach affecting us or our third-party providers could result in disruptions to our operations and loss of or unauthorized access or damage to our data or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information. Any actual or alleged disruption to, or security breach affecting, our systems or those of our third-party partners could cause significant damage to our reputation, result in legal obligations or liability, affect our relationships with our customers, and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or mitigate damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. The uncertain state of the global economy has contributed and continues to contribute to decreases in demand and spending in the technology industry at large, as well as to the specific markets in which we operate. The slow pace of global economic recovery and the resulting effects on global credit markets has created uncertainty in the timing and overall demand from our customers. This uncertainty may lead to decreased demand for our products and revenue fluctuations, increased price competition for our products, and may increase the risk of excess and obsolete inventories and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. The impact of continued economic challenges on the global financial markets could further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, the solvency of our key suppliers or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If economic conditions do not improve or if they deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely impacted. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect our rights, our business would be materially harmed. We seek to protect our products and product roadmaps in part by developing and/or securing proprietary rights relating to those products, including patents, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. Other companies may be investigating or developing technologies that are similar to our own. It is possible that patents may not be issued from any of our pending applications or those we may file in the future and, if patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from making, using or selling products that are similar to ours, or such patents could be invalidated or ruled unenforceable. We do not own patents in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to offer identical products in countries where we do not have intellectual property protections. In addition, the laws of some territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Europe, Asia-Pacific or Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Additionally, we are currently a licensee for a number of third-party technologies including software and intellectual property rights from academic institutions, our competitors and others, and we are required to pay royalties to these licensors for the use thereof. In the future, if such licenses are unavailable or if we are unable to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to rely on such third-party technologies which could inhibit our development of new products, impede the sale of some of our current products, substantially increase the cost to provide these products to our customers, and could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. 17 Table of Contents We also seek to protect our important trademarks by endeavoring to register them in certain countries. We have not registered our trademarks in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to use the same or confusingly similar marks in countries where we do not have trademark registrations. We have adopted Lumentum as a house trademark and trade name for our company, and are in the process of establishing rights in this name and brand. We have also adopted the Lumentum logo as a house trademark for our company, and are in the process of establishing rights in this brand. The Lumentum brand is the subject of trademark applications in the United States or other jurisdictions, but the trademarks have not yet proceeded to registration. The efforts we take to register and protect trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, may not be sufficient or effective. Although we will seek to obtain trademark registrations for the Lumentum brand, it is possible we may not be able to protect our brand through registration in one or more jurisdictions, for example, the applicable governmental authorities may not approve the registration. Furthermore, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge registration. There is the possibility that, despite efforts, the scope of the protection obtained for our trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, will be insufficient or that a registration may be deemed invalid or unenforceable in one or more jurisdictions throughout the world. Our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. Lawsuits and allegations of patent infringement and violation of other intellectual property rights occur regularly in our industry. We have in the past received, and anticipate that we will receive in the future, notices from third parties claiming that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights, with two distinct sources of such claims becoming increasingly prevalent. First, large technology companies, including some of our customers and competitors, are seeking to monetize their patent portfolios and have developed large internal organizations that may approach us with demands to enter into license agreements. Second, patent-holding companies that do not make or sell products (often referred to as patent trolls) may claim that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. We respond to these claims in the course of our business operations. The litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. We may not be successful in such development, or such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Without such a license, or if we are the subject of an exclusionary order, our ability to make our products could be limited and we could be enjoined from future sales of the infringing product or products, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Additionally, we often indemnify our customers against claims of infringement related to our products and may incur significant expenses to defend against such claims. If we are unsuccessful defending against such claims, we may be required to indemnify our customers against any damages awarded. We also face risks that third parties may assert trademark infringement claims against us in one or more jurisdictions throughout the world related to our Lumentum brand and/or other trademarks. The litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, trademark infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some or all of our products or services under the challenged trademark. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to alter our products, labels or packaging, license rights from third parties, or cease using the challenged trademark altogether, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We face certain litigation risks that could harm our business. From time to time we have been, and in the future we may become, subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of the complaints filed against us may not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore may be unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. While we may be unable to estimate the potential damages arising from such lawsuits, certain of them assert types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Even if these lawsuits are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved lawsuits could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Litigation is generally costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The costs of defending these lawsuits have been significant in the past, will continue to be costly and may not be covered by our insurance policies. The defense of these lawsuits could also result in continued diversion of our managements time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. For additional discussion regarding litigation, see Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 18 Table of Contents Our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected. We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could potentially require us to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to laws and other regulations worldwide including with respect to environmental matters, securities laws, privacy and personal data collection compliance with which could increase our expenses and harm our operating results. Our operations and our products are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and protection of human health and the environment in the jurisdictions in which we operate or sell our products. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, wastewater discharges and the handling and disposal of hazardous materials in our products. Our failure to comply with current and future environmental or health or safety requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs, including significant capital expenditures, to comply with such environmental laws and regulations and to clean up contaminated properties that we own or operate. Such clean-up or compliance obligations could result in disruptions to our operations. Additionally, if we are found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines or civil liability for damages resulting from such violations. These costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or operating results. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) enacted in the European Union which regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain products we manufacture. These regulations and similar legislation may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials, which could have an adverse impact on the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or other similar effects. We believe we comply with all such legislation where our products are sold and we continuously monitor these laws and the regulations being adopted under them to determine our responsibilities. In addition, pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC has promulgated rules requiring disclosure regarding the use of certain conflict minerals that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals. Complying with these disclosure requirements involves substantial diligence efforts to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products and may require third-party auditing of our diligence process. These efforts may demand internal resources that would otherwise be directed towards operations activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the conflict minerals used in our products. Additionally, if we are unable to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are determined to be conflict free, they may choose a competitors products which could materially impact our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, we are subject to laws and regulations with respect to personal data we collect from our employees, customers, and others. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent modifications and updates and require ongoing supervision. For example, the European Union recently adopted a General Data Protection Regulation, effective in May 2018, that will establish new, and in some cases more stringent, requirements for data protection in Europe. We may be required to modify our practices in order to comply with these or other requirements, which may require us to incur costs and expenses, and we may face difficulties in complying with all privacy and data protection legal requirements that apply to us now or in the future. Our failure to comply with any of the foregoing legal and regulatory requirements could result in increased costs for our products, monetary penalties, damages to our reputation, government inquiries and investigations, and legal action. Furthermore, the legal and regulatory requirements that are applicable to our business are subject to change from time to time, which increases our monitoring and compliance costs and the risk that we may fall out of compliance. Additionally, we may be required to ensure that our suppliers comply with such laws and regulations. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with such laws or regulations, we 19 Table of Contents could face sanctions for such noncompliance, and our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales may decline if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products, and we may be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. government and administered by the U.S. Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the Department of States Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. Certain of our fiber optics products are subject to EAR and certain of our RF-over-fiber products, as well as certain products and technical data, are developed with government funding, and are currently subject to ITAR. Products and the associated technical data developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation. Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with U.S. government regulations also subjects us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, certain of our significant customers and suppliers have products that are subject to U.S. export controls, and therefore these customers and suppliers may also be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if they do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Such regulatory consequences could disrupt our ability to obtain components from our suppliers, or to sell our products to major customers, which could significantly increase our costs, reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues, operating results, and cash flows may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, which makes predicting financial results difficult. Spending on optical communication and laser products is subject to cyclical and uneven fluctuations, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate unevenly and unpredictably. It can be difficult to predict the degree to which end-customer demand and the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of our OEM partners or other customers will affect our business in the future, particularly as we release new or enhanced products. While our fourth fiscal quarters are typically strongest, future buying patterns may differ from historical seasonality. If the mix of revenue changes, it may also cause results to differ from historical seasonality. Accordingly, our quarterly and annual revenues, operating results, cash flows, and other financial and operating metrics may vary significantly in the future, and the results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Risks Related to the Separation and Our Operation as an Independent Public Company Potential indemnification liabilities to Viavi pursuant to the Separation agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Separation Agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for: any Lumentum Liability (as defined in the Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of July 31, 2015 by and among JDS Uniphase Corporation, Lumentum Holdings Inc. and Lumentum Operations LLC (the Separation Agreement); our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any Lumentum Liability or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by Viavi for our benefit, except to the extent it relates to an Excluded Liability (as defined in the Separation Agreement); any breach by us of the Separation agreement or certain of its ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect 20 Table of Contents to all information contained in the Registration Statement on Form 10 (the Registration Statement) and information statement filed in connection with the Separation or any other disclosure document that describes the Separation or the distribution, or us and our subsidiaries, or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the Separation agreement, subject to certain exceptions. Our indemnification obligations are not subject to maximum loss clauses. If we are required to indemnify Viavi under the circumstances set forth in the Separation Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. In connection with the Separation, Viavi has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Viavis ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the Separation agreement, Viavi will indemnify us for certain liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from: any Excluded Liability (as defined in the Separation Agreement); the failure of Viavi or any of its subsidiaries, other than us, to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any of the Excluded Liabilities, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to or after the effective time of the distribution; any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by us for the benefit of Viavi, except to the extent it relates to a Lumentum Liability; any breach by Viavi or any of its subsidiaries, other than us, of the Separation Agreement or certain of its ancillary agreements; and any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to information contained in the registration statement or information statement filed in connection with the Separation or any other disclosure document that describes the Separation or the distribution or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the Separation Agreement, subject to certain exceptions. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Viavi agrees to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Viavi will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Viavi will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Viavi any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. We have characterized Viavis contribution of the CCOP segment and WaveReady product lines to us as a taxable transaction. If tax authorities were to take the position that this contribution is not a taxable transaction, then we may face greater than expected income tax liabilities, which would negatively impact our operating results. In connection with the Separation, Viavis assets related to the CCOP segment and WaveReady product lines were transferred to us in a transaction or transactions intended to be characterized as taxable, which will result in our receiving a fair market value or substantially stepped-up tax basis in the assets. We have reduced, and expect to continue to reduce in future reporting periods, our cash taxes by depreciation and amortization deductions related to the stepped-up tax basis in the assets. If the IRS disagrees with our characterization of the transactions pursuant to which the CCOP business assets were transferred to us or disallow the depreciation and amortization deductions, and the position were sustained, our financial results would be materially and adversely affected. We could have an indemnification obligation to Viavi if the distribution were determined not to qualify for non-recognition treatment, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We have received a private letter ruling from the IRS (the IRS Ruling), to the effect that the retention by Viavi of 19.9% of our common stock will not be deemed to be pursuant to a plan having as one of its principal purposes the avoidance of U.S. federal income tax within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(D)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). Notwithstanding the IRS Ruling, the IRS could determine on audit that the retention of our common stock was pursuant to a plan having as one of its principal purposes the avoidance of U.S. federal income tax if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings that we or Viavi have made or provided to the IRS are not correct. If the retention is deemed to be pursuant to a plan having as one of its principal purposes the avoidance of U.S. federal income tax, then the distribution could ultimately be determined to be taxable. In addition, Viavi also received a written opinion of PwC, its tax advisor in connection with the Separation, to the effect that the distribution, together with certain related transactions necessary to effectuate the distribution, should qualify for non-recognition of gain or loss under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code. The opinion is 21 Table of Contents not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or any court will not take a contrary position. If the distribution were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss, then Viavi would recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of our common stock held by it immediately before the distribution, over its tax basis in our stock immediately before the distribution. If, due to any of our representations being untrue or our covenants being breached, it were determined that the distribution did not qualify for non-recognition of gain or loss under Section 355 of the Code, we could be required to indemnify Viavi for the resulting taxes and related expenses. The indemnification obligation is not expected to be material because Viavi is expected to have a fair market value or substantially stepped-up tax basis in our shares immediately prior to the Separation. If, contrary to our expectation, it were determined that Viavi did not have a fair market value or substantially stepped-up tax basis in our shares, any such indemnification obligation could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and Nasdaq listing requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure