Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II. Lyfts Market Opportunity Transportation is a massive market. Transportation costs are a substantial expenditure for every household, often more than healthcare and entertainment expenditures. We believe we are still in the very early phases of capturing this massive opportunity as rideshare represents a small percentage of vehicle miles travelled. We also believe that we have a significant incremental opportunity to address transportation spend by businesses and organizations. Our market opportunity today includes transportation spend in the United States and Canada. In the transportation ecosystem, we are one of only two companies that have established a TaaS network at scale across the United States. Changes in society and the transportation industry are catalyzing a complete transformation of the massive transportation market: Consumers increasingly value accessibility and experiences over ownership Rise of on-demand services, specifically within the younger demographic Greater affinity towards mission-driven brands Increased demand for flexible earnings opportunities Emergence of new modes of transportation, such as our network of shared bikes and scooters Development of autonomous vehicles The Lyft Solution Our Transportation Network Our transportation network offers riders seamless, personalized and on-demand access to a variety of mobility options. 6 Our transportation network is comprised of: Ridesharing Marketplace. Our core offering since 2012 connects drivers with riders who need to get somewhere. The scale of our network enables us to predict demand and proactively incentivize drivers to be available for rides in the right place at the right time. This allows us to optimize earning opportunities for drivers and offer convenient rides for riders, creating sustainable value to both sides of our marketplace. Our ridesharing marketplace connects drivers with riders in cities across the United States and in select cities in Canada. Express Drive. Our flexible car rentals program for drivers who want to drive using our platform but do not have access to a vehicle that meets our requirements. Through our Express Drive program, drivers can enter into short-term rental agreements for vehicles that may be used to provide ridesharing services on the Lyft Platform. Lyft Rentals. In 2019, we launched Lyft Rentals to offer an attractive option for users who have long-distance trips, such as a weekend away. This is a separate consumer offering from Express Drive. Bikes and Scooters. We have a network of shared bikes and scooters in a number of cities to address the needs of users who are looking for options that are more active, usually lower-priced, and often more efficient for short trips during heavy traffic. These modes can also help supplement the first-mile and last-mile of a multimodal trip with public transit. Lyft bikes are standard and electric pedal-assist bicycles. Lyft has exclusive city partnerships in a majority of locations where we operate a bikeshare program including New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, Portland and Boston. In 2020, we continued to make inroads with our electric bike fleet which is now available across nine markets. Users can access Lyft scooters via our Lyft App in six major cities in the United States. When in a service area, users can see available scooters nearby. They can reserve a scooter ahead of time or use the Lyft App to scan the QR code on a nearby scooter to begin a ride. Public Transit. Available in select cities, our Transit offering integrates third-party public transit data into the Lyft App to offer users a robust view of transportation options around them and allows them to see transit routes to their destinations at no cost. Providing real-time public transit information is another step toward providing effective, equitable and sustainable transportation to our communities, and creating a more seamless and connected transportation network. Autonomous Vehicles. We have a number of strategic partnerships that offer access to autonomous vehicles. Our Open Platform partnership with Motional (formerly Aptiv) has enabled the commercial deployment of a fleet of autonomous vehicles on our platform in Las Vegas. We have facilitated over 100,000 paid rides in Motional autonomous vehicles with a safety driver since January 2018. 7 We have established one of the largest transportation networks in the United States and Canada. While network scale is important, we recognize that transportation happens locally and each market has its own unique user network. Our dynamic platform adjusts to the specific attributes of each market on a real-time basis. Drivers The drivers on our platform are active members of their communities. They are parents, students, business owners, retirees and everything in between. We work hard to serve the community of drivers on our platform, empowering them to be their own bosses and providing them the opportunity to focus their time on what matters most. Key benefits to drivers on our platform include: We offer drivers the flexibility to generate income on their own schedule, so they can best prioritize what is important in their lives. Our predictive technology around ride volume and demand enables us to share key information with drivers about when and where to drive in order to maximize their earnings on a real-time basis. We procure insurance that helps protect transportation network company (TNC) drivers against financial losses related to automobile accidents while on the platform. To help us uphold high community standards, we give both drivers and riders the opportunity to rate each other after a ride booked through the Lyft App. If a rider or driver rates the ride three stars or below, they will not be matched together again. Lyft may also follow up with the parties to further understand the ride experience and provide additional support if needed. All transactions are processed through our platform, so drivers do not need to worry about carrying cash. Our Driver Hubs and certain field locations in major cities serve as gathering places and offer in-person support and a personal connection to Lyft employees. In addition, drivers have access to 24/7 support and earnings tools as well as education resources and other support to meet their personal goals. On November 3, 2020, California voters passed Proposition 22, which protects independence and flexibility for drivers in California while providing them with new earnings opportunities and protections, including minimum guaranteed earnings, occupational accident insurance, and contributions towards healthcare coverage. Riders We care deeply about the riders on our platform and work to build long-term relationships with them by: developing simple, elegant and intuitive solutions; focusing intensely on the user experience, including soliciting feedback and following up if necessary on the ride experience; engendering a sense of mutual respect and fair treatment; and promoting trust and safety within our network. We believe this approach fuels our word-of-mouth referrals and reinforces our communitys desire to use Lyft over alternatives. Riders are as diverse and dynamic as the communities we serve. They represent all adult age groups and backgrounds and use Lyft to commute to and from work, explore their cities, spend more time at local businesses and stay out longer knowing they can get a reliable ride home. For the purposes of Item 1. Business section, riders are passengers who request rides from drivers in our ridesharing marketplace and renters of a shared bike, scooter or automobile. We work hard to provide riders with a quality experience every time they open the Lyft App, in order to earn the right to have Lyft be their transportation network of choice. Key benefits to riders include: Selection and Convenience. We designed the Lyft App with a focus on simplicity, efficiency and convenience. Riders enter their destination and are then presented with a range of transportation options to select from based on their needs and preferences. Our proprietary technology efficiently matches riders with drivers through advanced dispatching algorithms providing faster arrival times, localized pricing and maximum availability. We continuously aim to reduce friction in the booking process with features like one tap ride so riders can enter their destinations quickly. Additional modes, such as bikes and scooters, offer riders more options for shorter trips. The more rides that are taken on our platform, the better we are able to offer riders personalized experiences most suitable to the trip being planned. Availability. We strive to ensure that riders can get a ride when they want one. We leverage our proprietary dispatch platform and data to help drivers and riders connect efficiently and reduce wait times. Our machine learning algorithms continuously train our optimization models and dynamically incentivize drivers to be on our platform when and where riders are seeking 8 transportation. We are also expanding our network of shared bikes and scooters. The high availability of our platform and the breadth of our offerings have made us the preferred transportation network for millions of riders. Affordability . Our platform empowers riders to choose from a broad set of transportation options to easily optimize for cost, comfort and time. For our ridesharing marketplace, riders are presented with upfront estimated prices prior to taking the trip so they can anticipate the total cost. We also introduced lower-cost options for riders to get around in select cities, including Wait & Save mode, a network of shared bikes and scooters and Transit with affordability in mind. Safety . Since day one, we have worked continuously to enhance the safety of our platform and the ridesharing industry by developing innovative products, policies and processes. Before giving a ride on the Lyft Platform, all driver-applicants are screened for disqualifying criminal offenses and driving incidents. All approved drivers are also required to complete mandatory Community Safety Education. We conduct monitoring of active Lyft drivers, which provides us with continuous and rapid notification of disqualifying criminal records and driving infractions. Our Technology Infrastructure and Operations We organize our product teams with a full-stack development model, integrating product management, engineering, analytics, data science and design. We focus on affordability, reliability, efficiency, optimization and cohesion when developing our software. Our offerings are mobile-first and platform agnostic. We seek to continuously improve the Lyft Platform and the Lyft App. Our offerings are built on a scalable technology platform that enables us to manage peaks in demand. We have a commercial agreement with AWS for cloud services to help deliver and host our platform. As a result of our partnership, we believe we are more resilient to surges in demand on our platform or product changes we may introduce. Our commercial agreement with AWS will remain in effect until terminated by AWS or us. AWS may only terminate the agreement for convenience after September 30, 2022, and only after complying with certain advance notice requirements. AWS may also terminate the agreement for cause upon a breach of the agreement or for failure to pay amounts due, in each case, subject to AWS providing prior written notice and a 30-day cure period. We committed to spend an aggregate of at least $300 million between January 2019 and June 2022 on AWS services, with a minimum amount of $80 million in each of the three years. If we fail to meet the minimum purchase commitment during any year, we may be required to pay the difference. We pay AWS monthly, and we may pay more than the minimum purchase commitment to AWS based on usage. We designed our platform with multiple layers of redundancy to guard against data loss and deliver high availability. Incremental backups are performed hourly or more frequently and full backups are performed daily. In addition, as a default, redundant copies of content are stored independently in at least two separate geographic regions and replicated reliably within each region. We are also investing in iterating and continuously improving our data privacy and security foundation, and continually review and implement the most relevant policies. Our Intellectual Property We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business. We rely on trademarks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets, license agreements, intellectual property assignment agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements and employee non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Though we rely in part upon these legal and contractual protections, we believe that factors such as the skills and ingenuity of our employees and the functionality and frequent enhancements to our solutions are larger contributors to our success in the marketplace. We have invested in a patent program to identify and protect a substantial portion of our strategic intellectual property in ridesharing, autonomous vehicle-related technology, telecommunications, networking and other technologies relevant to our business. As of December 31, 2020, we held 342 issued U.S. patents and had 446 U.S. patent applications pending. We also held 59 issued patents in foreign jurisdictions and had 223 applications pending in foreign jurisdictions. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We have an ongoing trademark and service mark registration program pursuant to which we register our brand names and product names, taglines and logos in the United States and other countries to the extent we determine appropriate and cost-effective. We also have common law rights in some trademarks. In addition, we have registered domain names for websites that we use in our business, such as www.lyft.com and other variations. We intend to pursue additional intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost-effective. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be respected in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. For additional information, see the sections titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory and Legal FactorsClaims by others that we infringed their proprietary technology or other intellectual property rights could harm our business and Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory and Legal FactorsFailure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Our Growth Strategy Transportation is a massive market. We are in the very early phase of capturing this large opportunity. Our key growth strategies include our plans to: Increase Our Use Cases. We continuously work to extend our offerings to make Lyft the transportation network of choice across an expanding range of use cases. We offer products to simplify travel decision-making and expand the potential uses for our platform, such as our Lyft Pink subscription plan, Lyft Pass commuter programs, first-mile and last-mile services and university safe rides programs. We also provide centralized tools and enterprise transportation solutions tailored to businesses, such as our Concierge offering, which enables organizations to manage the transportation needs of their customers, employees and constituents. Recovery and Growth Of Our Rider Base. We see opportunities to recoup and grow our rider base as the COVID-19 pandemic ends. We intend to make incremental investments in our brand and growth marketing to increase consumer preference as the recovery takes hold. We also may offer discounts for first time riders to try Lyft and incentives for existing drivers and riders. We plan to continue to add density to our ridesharing marketplace by attracting and retaining drivers to our platform to further improve the rider experience. Additionally, we are expanding our platform coverage beyond the geographies and markets we currently serve. We also believe we will benefit from demographic trends, such as the growing percentage of the population who are born as digital natives accustomed to on-demand services. Expand Our Transportation Offerings. We continue to make Lyft an everyday experience for riders through our transportation network designed to address a wide range of mobility needs. For example, in 2018, we launched a network of shared bikes and scooters, and will continue to supplement and scale modes in order to offer riders more transportation options. In 2019, we added Lyft Rentals to add an attractive option for users planning to travel longer distances. More recently in 2020, we launched Wait & Save, where riders can opt for a longer wait time but pay a lower fare than for a standard ride mode. By expanding our transportation offerings, we can offer riders options that best fit their criteria directly from the Lyft App, which increases rider engagement. Grow Our Share of Rider Transportation Spend. As we continue to increase rider loyalty to our brand and expand our use cases and the breadth of our multimodal offerings, we believe we will also increase our share of rider transportation spend. For example, a rider may start using our ridesharing offering for a night out and then choose Lyft again for travel to the airport. Once they have experienced the reliability and convenience of Lyft, they may incorporate Wait & Save into their daily commute, rent one of our shared bikes or scooters for shorter rides or when connecting to public transit, and rent one of our Lyft Rentals vehicles for long-distance trips, like a weekend away. We are also investing to increase our share of more valuable rides to grow our share of rider transportation spend. In addition, usage of our platform typically increases over time. Increase Value to the Driver Community . We strive to provide the best and most fulfilling economic opportunities for the community of drivers on our platform. We continuously seek to launch and improve programs and initiatives that enhance the driver experience on our platform. Our Express Drive program connects drivers with rental cars and in the first quarter of 2020, we acquired Flexdrive, one of our longstanding partners in the Express Drive program. We are also investing in Driver Centers, Mobile Services, and related partnerships that offer affordable and convenient vehicle maintenance to the driver community. In addition to helping drivers access and maintain vehicles, we are committed to delivering innovative solutions that offer drivers fast and affordable access to their earnings. For example, we were the first ridesharing company to offer instant payouts to drivers through the Lyft App when we launched Express Pay in 2015. In 2019, we further improved access to driver earnings by launching Lyft Direct, our no-fee bank account and debit card for drivers that allows drivers to receive payment instantly after every ride. In 2020, we launched Essential Deliveries, a pilot initiative which provides drivers with new earnings opportunities by connecting them to government agencies, local non-profits, healthcare organizations, and other companies that need delivery services for items like food, groceries, prescriptions, medical supplies, home necessities, and auto parts. We believe that our efforts to improve the driver experience allows us to increase driver satisfaction and loyalty to Lyft. Invest in Technology to Strengthen Our Network and Increase Efficiency. Our investments in proprietary technologies and predictive analytics leverage insights derived from the rich set of data generated by our platform. These investments allow us to deliver an affordable, convenient and high-quality experience for riders and increase the earnings of drivers. Our investments in mapping, routing, payments, in-app navigation, matching technologies and data science are key to integrating technology to improve the safety and increase the efficiency of our platform. In addition, we are investing in autonomous vehicle-related technology, which we believe will be a critical part of the future of transportation. We recently announced that we were considering strategic options for our Level 5 self-driving system development program. Pursue M&A and Strategic Partnerships. In November 2018, we acquired Motivate, the largest bike sharing platform in the United States at the time and in February 2020, we acquired Flexdrive, one of our longstanding Express Drive partners. From time to time, we have made other acquisitions of businesses and technologies. We will continue to selectively pursue acquisitions that contribute to the growth of our current business, help us expand into adjacent markets or add new capabilities to our platform. We believe drivers and riders on our platform will also benefit from a broader partner ecosystem 10 that expands our marketing and loyalty programs and employee ride solutions. We have built strong relationships with transportation suppliers, state and local governments, and technology solutions providers. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions and partnerships that contribute to our growth. Competition The market for TaaS networks is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid changes in technology, shifting rider needs and frequent introductions of new services and offerings. We expect competition to continue, both from current competitors and new entrants in the market that may be well-established and enjoy greater resources or other strategic advantages. If we are unable to anticipate or successfully react to these competitive challenges in a timely manner, our competitive position could weaken, or fail to improve, and we could experience a decline in revenue or growth stagnation that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our main ridesharing competitors in the United States and Canada include Uber and Via. Our main competitors in the bike and scooter sharing market include Lime and Bird. Our main competitors in the consumer vehicle rental market include Enterprise, Hertz, and Avis Budget Group as well as emerging car-share marketplaces. We also compete with certain non-ridesharing transportation network companies, and taxi cab and livery companies as well as traditional automotive manufacturers, such as BMW, which has an ongoing presence in the transportation network market in Europe. Additionally, there are other non-U.S.-based TaaS network companies that may expand into the United States and Canada. There are also a number of companies developing autonomous vehicle technology that may compete with us in the future, including Alphabet (Waymo), Amazon (Zoox), Apple, Argo AI, Aurora, Baidu and General Motors (Cruise) as well as many other technology companies and automobile manufacturers and suppliers. We anticipate continued challenges from current competitors as well as from new entrants into the TaaS market. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: coverage and availability of access and service levels; scale of network; choice of modality; product design; ease of adoption and use; features and platform experience; partnerships and integrations with other ecosystem participants; brand; trust, safety, reliability and privacy; customer support; continued innovation in new modalities; driver payout; regulatory relations; sustainability; and prices. We believe we compete favorably across these factors. However, many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets and established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater resources for the development of their offerings. For additional information about the risks to our business related to competition, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Operational FactorsWe face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonality The revenue we generate from our business may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonal factors including the weather and certain holidays. We expect the demand for our transportation network may decline over the winter season in certain regions and the demand for our network of shared bikes and scooters may increase during more temperate and dry seasons. Our business is also subject to risks related to COVID-19. In particular, travel bans and restrictions, as well as shelter in place orders have decreased demand and we are unable to predict when and to what extent these public health and safety measures may be eased, how 11 riders will respond to the easing of such measures, and whether additional measures may need to be implemented in the future, any of which may continue to result in decreased demand notwithstanding usual seasonality. Our Brand and Marketing We aim to build the defining brand of our generation. We believe that our brand represents freedom at your fingertips: freedom from the stresses of driving and car ownership, and freedom to do and see more. Our unique values and culture are reflected in our brand. We drive awareness of our brand through our marketing efforts, which highlight our offerings, the simplicity of our user experience and our commitment to community, and we also benefit from the evangelism by our users. Values and Culture Building community and having a positive local impact is fundamental to who we are. We approach working with our partners, cities and municipalities in a collaborative manner and seek to establish mutually beneficial relationships based on trust, respect and a common objective of improving peoples lives by improving transportation. Millions of people lack access to basic needs because they cant get a ride. Through our LyftUp initiative, were working to make sure everyone has access to affordable, reliable transportation to get where they need to go no matter their income or zip code. We built LyftUp to account for those still left behind. LyftUp aims to bridge some of the most serious outstanding transportation gaps. Through our LyftUp programs, we partner with leading organizations, including government agencies and nonprofits, to provide access to free and discounted car, bike, and scooter rides to individuals and families in need. 2020 LyftUp programs included: Grocery Access - rides to/from the grocery store for families living in areas without sufficient grocery store access and meal delivery to individuals in need; Jobs Access - rides to/from job interviews, job trainings, and/or the first few weeks of a new job; Voting Access - rides to the polls; Disaster Response - rides to access vital services leading up to and in the wake of disasters and other local emergencies; Multimodal Access - deeply discounted bikeshare and scooter share memberships for eligible applicants who qualify for federal/state/local assistance programs; Critical Workforce Programs - providing critical workers including first-responders, healthcare, and transit workforce free scooter rides and free memberships to bikeshare programs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic; Universal Vaccine Access Campaign - mobilizing a coalition of partners to provide rides to and from vaccination sites for low-income, underinsured, and at-risk communities, as the COVID-19 vaccine becomes more widely available; and Community Grants Program - awards ride credits to hyperlocal nonprofit organizations across the country making a difference in their communities. All of this work directly ties back to Lyfts mission of improving peoples lives with the world's best transportation, and were proud to work with amazing community partners to bring these programs to life. Lastly, Lyft was founded on the belief that technology will enable us to dramatically reduce carbon emissions from the transportation system. We now offer several lower-carbon modes in the Lyft App: bikes, scooters, and transit. In 2019, Lyft launched access to hundreds of EVs on the Lyft Platform through Express Drive in Seattle, Atlanta, and Denver, and in 2020, Lyft made the commitment to reach 100% electric vehicles on the Lyft Platform by 2030 and joined The Climate Groups EV100 initiative to accelerate the transition to EVs. Brand Marketing Our marketing efforts are designed to educate people about Lyft in creative and memorable ways, generating brand awareness among potential drivers and riders. Lyft-Produced Content . Lyft will produce content and post on various platforms, such as Undercover Lyft where celebrities are disguised as drivers. Popular Culture. Ad placement in pop culture such as television series and movies. 12 Marketing Partnerships. We have marketing partnerships with leading brands, such as J.P. Morgan (Chase), Delta Air Lines, Hilton, and Walt Disney Parks & Resorts. Local Events. Our goal in sponsoring local events is to boost brand awareness at locally relevant times and use cases. Outdoor Advertising. To build unaided awareness, we have outdoor billboard campaigns in key markets. Specialty Modes. In select markets, riders may experience specialty or promotional ride modes for local events and organizations. Lyft Amp. Lyft Amps are bright, oval-shaped devices that sit on certain drivers dashboards which enhance the user experience, boost our brand awareness, and help promote safety. Amps assist rider identification of their drivers vehicles and also display a personalized greeting and ETA to inform riders of the estimated time to their destination. Performance Marketing We use a variety of channels to drive adoption of our platform and maintain driver and rider loyalty. We use specific channels and initiatives that enable us to measure the impact of our marketing spend. We currently attract new drivers and riders through a variety of marketing channels, including referrals, affiliate programs, partnerships, display advertising, radio, video, social media, email, search engine optimization and keyword search campaigns. After signup, we continue to engage riders through a variety of initiatives, such as emails, in-app notifications and promotions. Our Proprietary Data-Driven Technology Platform Our robust technology platform powers the millions of rides and connections that we facilitate every day and provides insights that drive our platform in real-time. We leverage historical data to continuously improve experiences for drivers and riders on our platform. Our platform analyzes large datasets covering the ride lifecycle, from when drivers go online and riders request rides, to when they match, which route to take and any feedback given after the rides. Utilizing machine learning capabilities to predict future behavior based on many years of historical data and use cases, we employ various levers to balance supply and demand in the marketplace, creating increased driver earnings while maintaining strong service levels for riders. We also leverage our data science and algorithms to inform our product development, such as the introduction of Lyft Pink. Ridesharing Marketplace Efficiency During the matching process, we leverage our proprietary dispatch platform and data to help drivers and riders connect efficiently. Factors such as distance, destination, route, traffic and travel time contribute to determining both driver to rider matching for our rideshare offerings including our Wait & Save mode, as well as rider-to-rider matching for our shared rides offerings, which is currently paused as a result of COVID-19. Prior to a match, we give drivers a simple, reliable signal about where to drive and often an incentive to increase earnings. We also focus on providing predictable, competitive and sustainable prices that optimize value for riders as well as help increase conversion. Our machine learning algorithms continuously train our optimization models and dynamically balance current and future supply and demand within the marketplace. Optimizing Marketplace Supply Once drivers sign up and begin driving, our predictive analytics and dynamic pricing algorithms help us to align driver incentives to encourage drivers to be available, at the right times, in areas of high demand. This helps provide drivers with potentially higher earning opportunities by allowing them to maximize their earnings per hour, which can elevate driver satisfaction, increase supply in peak hours and improve the overall efficiency of the marketplace. Managing and Anticipating Rider Demand Our pricing algorithms use real-time ride cost estimates, demand elasticity and data about traffic, weather and other travel conditions to optimize ride prices and balance supply and demand in our ridesharing marketplace. This allows us to offer consistently competitive ride prices, reduce rider wait times and maximize rider utilization of our platform, which we believe leads to long-term driver and rider loyalty. The Lyft Driver Experience We help drivers on our platform generate earnings while maintaining a flexible schedule. For these drivers, it all begins with the Lyft Driver App. After extensive background and safety checks, drivers can gain access to our platform and begin driving. The Lyft Driver App . Drivers only have to tap Go Online in the Lyft Driver App to begin receiving ride requests. Once matched, drivers will get a notification to accept the ride and receive the riders pickup spot. On-screen instructions and directions make it easy to pick up riders, navigate to destinations and drop off riders. Drivers and riders may then rate each other at the end of the ride. 13 Driver Dashboard . In the Lyft Driver App, we offer drivers a dashboard that shows the total earnings they can expect to see transferred to their bank accounts. In this dashboard, we offer detailed views of earnings activity, ride count and time spent, to help drivers understand and maximize their earnings. We provide an in-app Driver Console with additional tools and analytics to help drivers measure ride demand, pinpoint the best times to drive each day, set earnings goals and help them monitor their earnings progress. Drivers also gain real-time visibility into currently available incentives. Lyft Direct . We offer drivers an online bank account and debit card. Drivers with a Lyft Direct debit card get access to their earnings immediately after a ride is completed without any transfer or rush fees. In addition, drivers who use the card receive cash back on everyday purchases like gas. In-app Tipping . Lyft was the first ridesharing platform to offer In-app Tipping, making it easy for riders to tip right from the app. 100% of tips from riders go to drivers. We built tipping into the Lyft App to encourage great hospitality, and to make it easy for riders to show their appreciation. Driver Destination Mode . Destination Mode matches drivers with ride requests that get them closer to their intended destination by a specific time. We allow drivers to set a targeted arrival time so they can maximize earnings until the time they choose to go offline, or we allow them to specify a destination so they only receive priority matched ride requests going in the same direction. Express Drive . Express Drive is our flexible car rentals program for drivers. It is designed for those who want to drive using our platform but do not have access to a vehicle that meets our requirements. Express Drive offers a preferred weekly rate on cars rented from Hertz and Flexdrive. There are cars available in over 30 cities nationwide through Express Drive and includes EVs in Seattle, Atlanta, and Denver. Driver Hubs . Our Driver Hubs and service desks are currently in 40 cities across North America. These facilities are used for driver onboarding, answering driver questions and providing free inspections in select markets. They feature access to clean bathrooms and help desks for easy access to the Lyft support team. Driver Centers and Mobile Services. Lyft Driver Centers offer standard maintenance as well as services and repairs including free diagnostic inspection. Mobile Services bring auto repairs, including preventative maintenance, directly to the driver. Lyft Rewards. Drivers in over 275 markets are automatically eligible for Lyft Rewards, a driver loyalty program that rewards drivers with features and discounts to help them make the most of their time on the road. The Lyft Rider Experience We provide a variety of offerings to solve the transportation needs of riders. This starts with the Lyft App, which is a core part of the rider experience. To provide riders with the best experience, we are also continually adding new features, rider modes and payment models to address the needs of specific groups of riders, such as businesses and government entities. Lyft App The Lyft App provides a variety of ride modes to fit users transportation needs. The Lyft App is designed to be fast, simple and purposeful. When a user opens the Lyft App, all ride options available in that location are shown in a unified experience including scooters, bikes, public transit, car rentals, regular rides, larger vehicle rides, and even more. Subscription Plans Offering subscription plans allows us to provide more earning opportunities for drivers and is an important step toward providing transportation options to address the range of riders budgets and make car ownership optional. Lyft Pink is our subscription program that offers an elevated Lyft experience with preferred pricing to enable users to unlock all that their city has to offer. Lyft Pink members receive valuable benefits such as discounts, relaxed cancellations, priority airport pick-ups, access to unlimited, free, in-network food delivery through our partnership with Grubhub+, and more. Lyft Business Lyft is evolving how businesses large and small take care of their peoples transportation needs across sectors including corporate, healthcare, auto, education and government. Our comprehensive set of solutions allows customers to design, manage and pay for ground transportation programs that contribute to productivity and satisfaction while reducing cost, improving transparency and streamlining operations. Corporate Business Travel We partner with leading travel and expense management companies to deliver seamless experiences that are changing how our customers do business by making travel easier for everyone involved. Tools and features such as automated expensing and 14 centralized payment improve policy adherence for travelers and offer greater visibility for travel managers. Benefits such as real-time reporting on rides and costs as well as detailed ride data and classification make it easier to attribute, reconcile and reimburse expense spend. Concierge Originally developed for large healthcare partners to help improve access to quality care, our Concierge offering is now used by organizations of all types to access our network and request or schedule rides for other people. The majority of our ride modes are available through Concierge with features including real-time ride tracking, 24-hour customer support and the option to request a ride for someone as soon as they are ready or schedule a ride up to a week in advance. Organizations can also choose to build a seamless transportation experience in their own applications using the Lyft Concierge API. Key benefits of Concierge are: Simplifying Transportation for Businesses. Concierge allows organizations to arrange rides for their customers, guests and patients from one central dashboard, even if they dont have the Lyft App or a smartphone. Customers can reduce cost, save time and streamline transportation with our courtesy ride tool. Improving Healthcare. Many Americans miss or delay medical care annually because they cannot get a ride to the doctor. Healthcare transportation brokers use our Concierge offering to provide patients with a reliable way to get to important healthcare appointments on time. Lyft Pass Lyft Pass allows organizations to cover the costs of rides for their people - from employees and essential workers, to customers, guests, and more - while prioritizing safety, convenience, and flexibility. Lyft Pass allows organizations to create custom transportation programs that work best for their needs, while staying in control of budget and how the programs are used. At the onset of the COVID-19 crisis, we partnered with health systems to help essential healthcare workers on the front lines get to and from work. And today, leading companies are partnering with Lyft to solve their employees transportation needs. Enterprise Programs We offer various enterprise programs, including monthly ride credits for daily commutes, supplementing public transit by providing access to rides for the first and last leg of commute trips, late-night rides home and shuttle replacement rides. Companies can provide monthly Lyft credits as a benefit to employees to ensure convenient and cost-effective late-night transportation from the office. Events We enable transportation solutions that can be customized for events such as recruiting events, conferences, celebrations, meetings and company retreats. Organizations or individuals can create in-app experiences and custom codes for attendees to ride to and from events. Our Commitment to Safety A strong guiding principle since day one has been to build a community that drivers and riders trust. Trust is the foundation of our relationship with drivers and riders on our platform, and we take significant measures every day that are focused on their safety. To ensure we are delivering exceptional service levels and upholding high quality standards, we have established our Safety and Customer Care, or SCC (formerly known as Customer Experience and Trust), team as a key part of our organization. With over 400 employees as of December 31, 2020, SCC is in charge of fielding safety and customer support inquiries and is available through multiple channels, including via self-service and assisted support directly within our apps. Our SCC team focuses on driving results based on experience-based metrics including First Contact Resolution, which is the number of support tickets resolved during first contact with a driver or rider, and Net Promoter Score. SCC aims to eliminate bad customer experiences, quickly resolve problems when they occur and maintain trust with drivers and riders. This dedication led our customer support to be recently named number one in Newsweeks 2020 Americas Best Customer Service rankings for the Taxi and Ridesharing category. The ways we promote safety include: Critical Response Line . Our team of specialists within SCC handle sensitive issues regarding behavior or safety incidents on our platform. Available 24/7, they work with many teams to provide a high quality of care. Driving Record and Background Checks. Every driver is screened before they are permitted to drive on our platform, starting with professional third-party background and driving record checks. To promote a consistently high-quality experience, we ensure vehicles meet our criteria for vehicle age before drivers are accepted to drive these vehicles on our platform. We conduct monitoring of active Lyft drivers, which provides us with continuous and expeditious notification of 15 disqualifying criminal records and driving infractions. Any driver who does not meet applicable regulations and our internal safety criteria on both the annual and continuous screenings is barred from our platform. Two-Way Ratings. Our two-way ratings system helps promote the safety and comfort of the Lyft community by offering a channel for drivers and riders to provide anonymous feedback on their Lyft experiences through the Lyft App. At the end of each ride, drivers and riders are prompted to rate each other on a scale of 1-5 stars. Our ratings system allows drivers and riders to provide anonymous feedback. We take rider ratings and driver feedback very seriously. If a rider rates a driver three stars or fewer, well make sure they arent matched together again. If a rider rates a driver four stars or fewer, theyre required to provide more details about the rating to ensure were constantly tracking user feedback. We regularly review community feedback to inform our policies and product features. Zero-Tolerance Policy. Lyft maintains a zero-tolerance drug and alcohol policy for drivers on our platform. We also do not allow riders to have open alcohol containers in-ride and can deactivate riders from the platform for violating this policy. Community Safety Education. All approved drivers are required to complete a mandatory community safety education course. Safety Features . We continuously invest in new safety features, including increased anti-fraud measures and required feedback for any rides less than four stars. During the ride, we have designed numerous safety features into the Lyft experience and will continue to innovate to ensure the safety of riders and drivers. Some recently designed safety features include: Share Location, which allows riders and drivers to share their location with family and friends; Emergency Help, supported by ADT, which allows drivers and riders to quickly and silently connect with an ADT professional, who can alert authorities if needed; Smart Trip Check-In, in some cases, if we notice your ride has stopped too soon or for an unusual amount of time, Lyft will ask drivers and riders if they need support and, if necessary, give the option to request emergency assistance; In-app photos of the driver and vehicle, with license plate numbers and vehicle information; Real-time ride tracking, digital receipts; and Enhanced identity verification process, which combines driver's license verification and photographic identity verification to prevent identity fraud on our platform. Lyft Insurance Protection. We provide primary liability coverage for TNC drivers from the moment they are matched with a rider until that rider is dropped off. Our auto liability insurance will apply as primary to a drivers standard personal automobile insurance policy when matched with a rider. Bikes and Scooters. Safety is a key tenet that guides our work with bikes and scooters. We are providing the necessary education and support for all riders and are working with partners to provide the capital and technology solutions to expand protected bike lanes and reduce speeding. We are working with organizations, like Together For Safer Roads and the Vision Zero Network, that collaborate with local bike and pedestrian advocates to help protect our community members. We are also giving away free helmets to select groups of riders in select markets. Government Regulation We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions. Laws, regulations and standards governing issues such as TNCs, public companies, ridesharing, worker classification, labor and employment, anti-discrimination, payments, gift cards, whistleblowing and worker confidentiality obligations, product liability, defects, auto maintenance and repairs, personal injury, text messaging, subscription services, intellectual property, consumer protection, taxation, privacy, data security, competition, unionizing and collective action, arbitration agreements and class action waiver provisions, terms of service, mobile application accessibility, autonomous vehicles, bike and scooter sharing, insurance, vehicle rentals, money transmittal, non-emergency medical transportation, environmental health and safety, greenhouse gas emissions, background checks, public health, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and delivery of goods including (but not limited to) medical supplies, perishable foods and prescription drugs are often complex and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state and local administrative agencies. The TNC industry has also come under increasing scrutiny from non-profit organizations, regulators, and legislators for its environmental impact, specifically increasing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2018, California passed first-of-its-kind legislation (the California Clean Miles Standard and Incentive Program) to mandate that TNCs reduce their GHG emissions on a GHG per passenger-mile basis, with additional requirements that TNCs increase the percentage of zero-emission vehicles on their platforms. 16 Policymakers recently proposed analogous legislation in Washington state, and other states and the federal government are actively observing the regulatory development process for the California Clean Miles Standard and Incentive Program. See the sections titled Risk Factors, including the subsections titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory and Legal FactorsChallenges to contractor classification of drivers that use our platform may have adverse business, financial, tax, legal and other consequences to our business, Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory and Legal FactorsOur business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations, Risk FactorsRisks Related to Operational FactorsWe rely on third-party payment processors to process payments made by riders and payments made to drivers on our platform, and if we cannot manage our relationships with such third parties and other payment-related risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory and Legal FactorsChanges in laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection or the protection or transfer of personal data, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations or any other obligations relating to privacy, data protection or the protection or transfer of personal data, could adversely affect our business, Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory and Legal FactorsWe face the risk of litigation resulting from unauthorized text messages sent in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory and Legal FactorsClimate change may have a long-term impact on our business for additional information about the laws and regulations we are subject to and the risks to our business associated with such laws and regulations. Human Capital Our employees are our human capital and they are our greatest strength and most valuable resource. As of December 31, 2020, we had 4,675 employees in approximately 100 offices and additional locations, including Driver Hubs, Driver Centers, and Service Desks. Approximately 48% of our employees work in our product management, engineering, design and science organizations. Our employees are passionate about our mission to improve peoples lives with the worlds best transportation. We believe that achieving more diversity in workforce representation is an important priority. We are a company with a diverse customer base, and the more our employees reflect that diversity, the better we can serve our customers, ultimately making our business stronger. As of December 31, 2020, our employee base was 62% male and 38% female, and women represented 34% of our leadership overall. The ethnicity of our U.S. employees was 47% White, 30% Asian, 10% Hispanic or Latinx, 8% Black, and 5% two or more races, American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander. Our employee gender and ethnicity information is based on self-identification, and employees who did not disclose their gender or ethnicity have been excluded from the applicable disclosure. As of December 31, 2020, employees who did not disclose gender represented approximately 1% of total employees, and employees who did not disclose ethnicity represented approximately 7% of total U.S. employees. Building a more representative workforce requires an intentional and comprehensive effort to reach and recruit outstanding candidates, develop talent internally, and open up pathways for advancement. In 2020, we initiated difficult yet necessary conversations to align and inspire our entire organization. We educated our leaders and managers on unconscious bias and practicing empathy, while also encouraging team members to speak openly and honestly about societal inequalities. We launched new initiatives like our revised Rooney Rule 2.0, which requires all director level and above roles to consider one woman and one Black or Latinx candidate at the onsite interview stage, and we have partnered with organizations that support emerging talent in communities of color. We will continue to prioritize diversity, inclusion, and representation in the workforce. In December 2020, we released our 2020 Inclusion, Diversity and Racial Equity Report, which is available on our website. We have presented this report annually since 2017 and intend to continue to present this report to make available certain information about our diversity and inclusion efforts. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we believe that our employee relations are strong. Corporate Information We were incorporated in 2007 as Bounder Web, Inc., a Delaware corporation. In 2008, we changed our name to Zimride, Inc. We founded Lyft in 2012 and changed our name to Lyft, Inc. in 2013 when we sold the assets related to our Zimride operations. 17 Available Information Our website is located at www.lyft.com, and our investor relations website is located at investor.lyft.com. Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings at www.sec.gov. We announce material information to the public about us, our products and services and other matters through a variety of means, including filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts, the investor relations section of our website (investor.lyft.com), our Twitter account (@lyft) and our blogs (including: lyft.com/blog, lyft.com/hub, eng.lyft.com, medium.com/LyftLevel5, medium.com/sharing-the-ride-with-lyft and medium.com/@johnzimmer) in order to achieve broad, non-exclusionary distribution of information to the public and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. 18 Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. For the purposes of this Item 1A. Risk Factors section, riders are passengers who request rides from drivers in our ridesharing marketplace and renters of a shared bike, scooter or automobile. Risk Factor Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, that could cause our actual results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: General economic factors the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and responsive measures; natural disasters, economic downturns, public health crises or political crises; Operational factors our limited operating history; our history of net losses and any inability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future; competition in our industry; the unpredictability of our results of operations; uncertainty regarding the growth of the ridesharing market; our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers and riders; our insurance coverage and the adequacy of our insurance reserves; the ability of third-party insurance providers to service our auto-related insurance claims; our autonomous vehicle technology and the development of the autonomous vehicle industry; our reputation, brand, and company culture; illegal or improper activity of users of our platform; the accuracy of background checks on potential drivers; changes to our pricing practices; the growth and development of our network of bikes and scooters and the quality of our bikes and scooters; our revenue growth rate and ability to manage our growth; actual or perceived security or privacy breaches, as well as defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our technology and that of third-party providers; our reliance on third parties, such as Amazon Web Services, vehicle rental partners, payment processors and other service providers; our ability to operate our Express Drive and Lyft Rentals programs and our delivery service platform; our ability to effectively match riders on our Shared and Shared Saver Rides offering and to manage our up-front pricing methodology; the development of new offerings on our platform and management of the complexities of such expansion; inaccuracies in our key metrics and estimates; our marketing efforts; our ability to offer high-quality user support and to deal with fraud; systems failures and interruptions in the availability of our website, applications, platform or offerings; changes in the Internet, mobile device accessibility, mobile device operating systems and application marketplaces; the interoperability of our platform across third-party applications and services; factors relating to our intellectual property rights as well as the intellectual property rights of others; our presence outside the United States and any future international expansion; Regulatory and Legal factors the classification status of drivers on our platform; changes in laws and the adoption and interpretation of administrative rules and regulations; 19 compliance with laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection and the protection or transfer of personal data; compliance with additional laws and regulations as we expand our platform offerings; litigation resulting from violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act or other consumer protection laws and regulations; intellectual property litigation; assertions from taxing authorities that we should have collected or in the future should collect additional taxes; our ability to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting; costs related to operating as a public company; climate change which may have a long-term impact on our business; Financing and Transactional Risks our future capital requirements; our ability to service our current and future debt, and counterparty risk with respect to our capped call transactions; our ability to make and successfully integrate acquisitions and investments or complete divestitures, joint ventures, partnerships or other strategic transactions; our tax liabilities, ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and future changes in tax matters; Governance Risks and Risks related to Ownership of our Capital Stock provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult; exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws; the dual class structure of our common stock and its concentration of voting power with our Co-Founders; the volatility of the trading price of our Class A common stock; sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock; our intention not to pay dividends for the foreseeable future; and the publication of research about us by analysts. Risks Related to General Economic Factors The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted and harmed, and is expected to continue to disrupt and harm, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict the extent to which the pandemic and related effects will continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and the achievement of our strategic objectives. Our business, operations and financial performance have been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health responses, such as travel bans, travel restrictions and shelter-in-place orders. The pandemic and these related responses have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, decreased demand for our platform relative to pre-COVID-19 demand, the global slowdown of economic activity (including a decrease in demand for a broad variety of goods and services), disruptions in global supply chains, and significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic has subjected our operations, financial performance and financial condition to a number of risks, including, but not limited to those discussed below: Declines in travel as a result COVID-19, including commuting, local travel, and business and leisure travel, has resulted in decreased demand for our platform which has decreased our revenues. We have also paused our shared rides offerings as a result of COVID-19. During certain periods in the past, these factors have led to a decrease in earning opportunities for drivers on our platform. Changes in travel trends and behavior arising from COVID-19, including as a result of new strains of COVID-19, may continue to develop or persist over time and further contribute to this adverse effect. Changes in driver behavior arising from COVID-19 have led to reduced levels of driver availability on our platform beginning in the second quarter of 2020. To the extent that driver availability is limited, our service levels may be negatively impacted, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In light of the evolving and unpredictable effects of COVID-19, we are not currently in a position to forecast the expected impact of COVID-19 on our financial and operating results until the pandemic subsides. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business customers have caused a reduction in demand for our Lyft Business offerings and that reduction may persist or expand further in the future. The responsive measures to the COVID-19 pandemic have caused us to modify our business practices by having corporate employees in nearly all of our locations work remotely, limiting employee travel, and cancelling, postponing or holding virtual events and meetings. We may be required to or choose voluntarily to take additional actions for the health and safety 20 of our workforce and users of our platform, including after the pandemic subsides and with respect to vaccination, whether in response to government orders or based on our own determinations of what is in the best interests of our employees or users of our platform. The effects of the pandemic, including remote working arrangements for employees, may also impact our real estate footprint, financial reporting systems and internal control over financial reporting, including our ability to ensure information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. To the extent these measures result in decreased productivity, harm our company culture, adversely affect our ability to timely and accurately report our financial statements or maintain internal controls, or otherwise negatively affect our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We design and contract to manufacture bikes and scooters using a limited number of external suppliers, and a continuous, stable and cost-effective supply of bikes and scooters that meet our standards is critical to our operations. We also design and contract to manufacture certain assets related to our network of shared bikes and scooters and we rely on a small number of suppliers for components and manufacturing services. We have faced challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic related to these assets, such as delays in their manufacture and delivery, and we may face additional challenges in future periods. These challenges may adversely affect our ability to deploy new bikes and scooters on our network or to implement new features on our network of shared bikes and scooters. These supply chain issues have and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The impacts of COVID-19 have and may continue to have an adverse impact on the demand for vehicles rented to drivers through our Express Drive program, and for our fleet rented to users through Lyft Rentals. Further, COVID-19 has and may continue to negatively impact Lyft's ability to conduct rental operations through the Express Drive program and Lyft Rentals as a result of restrictions on travel, mandated closures, limited staffing availability, and other factors related to COVID-19. For example, in 2020, Lyft Rentals temporarily ceased operations, closing its rental locations, as a result of COVID-19. Further, while Express Drive rental periods renew on a weekly basis, new rental reservations were temporarily blocked, and subsequently re-opened with modified operations to limit the proximity and amount of interactions between associates and drivers, and to address additional cleaning which may be required as a result of COVID-19. These operations are more costly, and vulnerable to shortages of cleaning supplies or other materials required to operate rental sites while minimizing the risk of exposure to COVID-19. As a result of the adverse impact to demand for rides on the rideshare platform, drivers renting from Express Drive have had and may continue to have a diminished ability to pay their rental fees. In response, in 2020, Flexdrive temporarily reduced pricing for Flexdrive rentals in cities most affected by COVID-19, and have waived rental fees for drivers who are confirmed to have tested positive for COVID-19 or requested to quarantine by a medical professional. Further, Lyft has faced significantly higher costs in transporting, repossessing, cleaning, and storing unrented and returned vehicles from both fleets. These impacts to the demand for and operations of the different rental programs have and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The COVID-19 pandemic may delay or prevent us, or our current or prospective partners and suppliers, from being able to develop or deploy autonomous vehicle-related technology, including through direct impacts of the COVID-19 virus on employee and contractor health; shelter-in-place orders by local, state, or federal governments negatively impacting operations, including our ability to test autonomous vehicle-related technology; impacts to our supply chains or those of our current or prospective partners and suppliers; or economic impacts limiting our or our current or prospective partners or suppliers ability to expend resources on developing and deploying autonomous vehicle-related technology. These impacts to the development and deployment of autonomous vehicle-related technology may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, we have taken certain cost-cutting measures, including lay-offs, furloughs and salary reductions, which may adversely affect employee morale, our culture and our ability to attract and retain employees. As the severity, magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, the public health responses, and its economic consequences are uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict, the pandemics impact on our operations and financial performance, as well as its impact on our ability to successfully execute our business strategies and initiatives, remains uncertain and difficult to predict. As the United States begins to reopen, the recovery of the economy and our business have fluctuated and vary by geography. Further, the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our users, customers, employees, business, operations and financial performance depends on many factors that are not within our control, including, but not limited, to: governmental, business and individuals actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic (including restrictions on travel and transport and modified workplace activities); the impact of the pandemic and actions taken in response local or regional economies, travel, and economic activity; the speed and efficacy of vaccine distribution; the availability of government funding programs; evolving laws and regulations regarding COVID-19, including those related to disclosure and notification; general economic uncertainty in key markets and financial market volatility; volatility in our stock price, global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; the 21 duration of the pandemic; the extent of any virus mutations or new strains of COVID-19; and the pace of recovery when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. Our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, economic downturns or other unexpected events. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, hurricane, tornado, flood or significant power outage, could disrupt our operations, mobile networks, the Internet or the operations of our third-party technology providers. In particular, our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, any public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, other epidemics, political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war and other political or social instability, including any instability surrounding the United Kingdoms exit from the EU (Brexit) and other geopolitical developments, or other catastrophic events, such as the explosion in Nashville on December 25, 2020, whether in the United States or abroad, could adversely affect our operations or the economy as a whole. For example, COVID-19 has led to certain business disruptions as described in our other risk factors, including travel bans and restrictions, and shelter in place orders that have resulted in declines in demand for our services, as well as adverse effects on drivers and riders on our platform, our suppliers and the economy, all of which have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The impact of any natural disaster, act of terrorism or other disruption to us or our third-party providers abilities could result in decreased demand for our offerings or a delay in the provision of our offerings, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. Our business and results of operations are also subject to global economic conditions, including any resulting effect on spending by us or riders. If general economic conditions deteriorate in the United States or in other markets where we operate, discretionary spending may decline and demand for ridesharing may be reduced. An economic downturn resulting in a prolonged recessionary period may have a further adverse effect on our revenue. Risks Related to Operational Factors Our limited operating history and our evolving business make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. We have been focused on ridesharing since our ridesharing marketplace launched in 2012, and our business continues to evolve. We regularly expand our platform features, offerings and services and change our pricing methodologies. This relatively limited operating history and our evolving business make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. Risks and challenges we have faced or expect to face include our ability to: forecast our revenue and budget for and manage our expenses; attract new qualified drivers and new riders and retain existing qualified drivers and existing riders in a cost-effective manner; comply with existing and new or modified laws and regulations applicable to our business; manage our platform and our business assets and expenses in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures issued by various jurisdictions, including travel bans, travel restrictions and shelter-in-place orders, as well as maintain demand for and confidence in the safety of our platform during and following the COVID-19 pandemic; plan for and manage capital expenditures for our current and future offerings, including our network of shared bikes and scooters or certain vehicles in the Express Drive program and our fleet of vehicles for Lyft Rentals, and manage our supply chain and supplier relationships related to our current and future offerings; develop, manufacture, source, deploy, maintain and ensure utilization of our assets, including our network of shared bikes and scooters, Driver Hubs, Driver Centers and Mobile Services, certain vehicles in the Express Drive program, vehicles for Lyft Rentals, and autonomous vehicle technology; anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes and changes in the markets in which we operate; maintain and enhance the value of our reputation and brand; effectively manage our growth and business operations, including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business; successfully expand our geographic reach; hire, integrate and retain talented people at all levels of our organization; successfully develop new platform features, offerings and services to enhance the experience of users; and right-size our real estate portfolio. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, because we have limited historical financial data and operate in a rapidly evolving market, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a 22 more predictable market. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have a history of net losses and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $1.8 billion, $2.6 billion, and $0.9 billion in the year ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our expenses will likely increase in the future as we develop and launch new offerings and platform features, expand in existing and new markets and continue to invest in our platform and customer engagement, or as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. For example, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs and expenses associated with the passage of Proposition 22 in California including providing drivers in California with new earnings opportunities and protections, including contributions towards health care coverage, occupational accident insurance and minimum guaranteed earnings, and we have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional costs and expenses associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, including sales, marketing and costs relating to our efforts to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, we have expanded over time to include more asset-intensive offerings such as our network of shared bikes and scooters, autonomous vehicles, Flexdrive and Lyft Rentals. We are also expanding the support available to drivers at our Driver Hubs, our driver-centric service centers and community spaces, Driver Centers, our vehicle service centers, Mobile Services and through our Express Drive vehicle rental program. These offerings require significant capital investments and recurring costs, including debt payments, maintenance, depreciation, asset life and asset replacement costs, and if we are not able to maintain sufficient levels of utilization of such assets or such offerings are otherwise not successful, our investments may not generate sufficient returns and our financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition to the above, a determination in, or settlement of, any legal proceeding that classifies a driver on a ridesharing platform as an employee may require us to significantly alter our existing business model and operations (including potentially suspending or ceasing operations in impacted jurisdictions), increase our costs and impact our ability to add qualified drivers to our platform and grow our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Additionally, stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock units (RSUs) and other equity awards may continue to be a significant expense in future periods, and we have $905.6 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to RSUs, net of estimated forfeitures, that will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.4 years. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or positive cash flow on a consistent basis. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for TaaS networks is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid changes in technology, shifting rider needs and frequent introductions of new services and offerings. We expect competition to continue, both from current competitors and new entrants in the market that may be well-established and enjoy greater resources or other strategic advantages. If we are unable to anticipate or successfully react to these competitive challenges in a timely manner, our competitive position could weaken, or fail to improve, and we could experience a decline in revenue or growth stagnation that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our main ridesharing competitors in the United States and Canada include Uber and Via. Our main competitors in the bike and scooter sharing market include Lime and Bird. Our main competitors in the consumer vehicle rental market include Enterprise, Hertz, and Avis Budget Group as well as emerging car-share marketplaces. We also compete with certain non-ridesharing transportation network companies and taxi cab and livery companies as well as traditional automotive manufacturers, such as BMW, which has an ongoing presence in the transportation network market in Europe. Additionally, there are other non-U.S.-based TaaS network companies that may expand into the United States and Canada. There are also a number of companies developing autonomous vehicle technology that may compete with us in the future, including Alphabet (Waymo), Amazon (Zoox), Apple, Argo AI, Aurora, Baidu, and General Motors (Cruise) as well as many other technology companies and automobile manufacturers and suppliers. We anticipate continued challenges from current competitors as well as from new entrants into the TaaS market. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, research and development, manufacturing and other resources, greater name recognition, longer operating histories or a larger user base than we do. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of offerings and offer lower prices than we do, which could adversely affect our 23 results of operations. Further, they may have greater resources to deploy towards the research, development and commercialization of new technologies, including autonomous vehicle technology or bikes and scooters, or they may have other financial, technical or resource advantages. These factors may allow our competitors to derive greater revenue and profits from their existing user bases, attract and retain qualified drivers and riders at lower costs or respond more quickly to new and emerging technologies and trends. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative or strategic relationships, or consolidate, amongst themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources and offerings. We believe that our ability to compete effectively depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, utility, ease of use, performance and reliability of our offerings compared to those of our competitors; our reputation, including the perceived safety of our platform, and brand strength relative to our competitors; our pricing models and the prices of our offerings and the fees we charge drivers on our platform; our ability, and our ability compared to our competitors, to manage our business and operations during the COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental, business and individuals actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic (including restrictions on travel and transport and modified workplace activities); our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers and riders; our ability, and our ability compared to our competitors, to develop new offerings; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with partners; our ability to develop, manufacture, source, deploy, maintain and ensure utilization of our assets, including our network of shared bikes and scooters, Driver Hubs, Driver Centers and Mobile Services, certain vehicles in the Express Drive program, vehicles for Lyft Rentals and autonomous vehicle technology, including the success of any strategic options we may consider with regard to our assets; changes mandated by, or that we elect to make, to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements, judgments, including those related to the classification of drivers on our platform, injunctions and consent decrees; our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees; our ability to raise additional capital as needed; and acquisitions or consolidation within our industry. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our results of operations vary and are unpredictable from period-to-period, which could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our results of operations have historically varied from period-to-period and we expect that our results of operations will continue to do so for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Because our results of operations may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, the results of any one period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. We have presented many of the factors that may cause our results of operations to fluctuate in this Risk Factors section. Fluctuations in our results of operations may cause such results to fall below our financial guidance or other projections, or the expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline. The ridesharing market and the market for our other offerings, such as our network of shared bikes and scooters, are still in relatively early stages of growth and if such markets do not continue to grow, grow more slowly than we expect or fail to grow as large as we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Prior to COVID-19, the ridesharing market grew rapidly, but it is still relatively new, and it is uncertain to what extent market acceptance will continue to grow, particularly after the COVID-19 pandemic, if at all. In addition, the market for our other offerings, such as our network of shared bikes and scooters, is new and unproven, and it is uncertain whether demand for bike and scooter sharing will continue to grow and achieve wide market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of people to widely-adopt ridesharing and our other offerings. We cannot be certain whether the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to negatively impact the willingness of drivers or riders to participate in ridesharing or the willingness of riders to use shared bikes or scooters. In addition, we have paused our shared rides offerings, and we were temporarily restricted from operating our bike share and scooter share programs in one jurisdiction due to public health and safety measures implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequently temporarily suspended rentals of scooters due to concerns with certain aspects of the program. If the public does not perceive ridesharing or our other offerings as beneficial, or chooses not to adopt them as a result of concerns regarding public health or safety, affordability or for other reasons, whether as a result of incidents on our platform or on our competitors platforms, the COVID-19 pandemic, or otherwise, then the market for our offerings may not further develop, may develop more slowly than we expect or may not achieve the growth potential we expect. Additionally, from time to time we may re-evaluate the 24 markets in which we operate and the performance of our network of shared bikes and scooters, and we have discontinued and may in the future discontinue operations in certain markets as a result of such evaluations. Any of the foregoing risks and challenges could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to cost-effectively attract and retain qualified drivers, or to increase utilization of our platform by existing drivers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our continued growth depends in part on our ability to cost-effectively attract and retain qualified drivers who satisfy our screening criteria and procedures and to increase utilization of our platform by existing drivers. To attract and retain qualified drivers, we have, among other things, offered sign-up and referral bonuses and provided access to third-party vehicle rental programs for drivers who do not have or do not wish to use their own vehicle. If we do not continue to provide drivers with flexibility on our platform, compelling opportunities to earn income and other incentive programs, such as volume-based discounts and performance-based bonuses, that are comparable or superior to those of our competitors, or if drivers become dissatisfied with our programs and benefits, we may fail to attract new drivers, retain current drivers or increase their utilization of our platform, or we may experience complaints, negative publicity, strikes or other work stoppages that could adversely affect our users and our business. For example, beginning in the latter portion of the second quarter of 2020, we saw a shortage of available drivers relative to rider demand in certain markets where restrictions on social activities and visiting business venues were eased. This imbalance fluctuates for various reasons to the extent that driver availability remains limited, and our revenue may be negatively impacted. In order to improve driver availability, we may increase incentives available to drivers, which could negatively impact revenue. Additionally, following the passage of Proposition 22 in California, we have begun to provide for drivers to receive the earning opportunities described in the ballot measure. Our competitors may attempt to compete for drivers on the basis of these earning opportunities, or drivers may determine that such earning opportunities are not sufficient. Further, other jurisdictions may adopt similar laws and regulations, which we would likely increase our expenses. Notwithstanding the passage of Proposition 22, we are subject to ongoing litigation in California, including efforts to overturn Proposition 22, and in other jurisdictions. If we are unsuccessful in this ongoing litigation in one or more jurisdictions, we may be required to classify drivers as employees rather than independent contractors in those jurisdictions. If this occurs, we will need to develop and implement an employment model that we have not historically used. We may face specific risks relating to our ability to onboard drivers as employees, our ability to partner with third-party organizations to source drivers and our ability to effectively utilize employee drivers to meet rider demand. Similar rulings in other jurisdictions may cause similar effects. If drivers are unsatisfied with our partners, including our third-party vehicle rental partners, our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers who satisfy our screening criteria and procedures and to increase utilization of our platform by existing drivers could be adversely affected. Further, incentives we provide to attract drivers could fail to attract and retain qualified drivers or fail to increase utilization by existing drivers, or could have other unintended adverse consequences. In addition, changes in certain laws and regulations, including immigration, labor and employment laws or background check requirements, may result in a shift or decrease in the pool of qualified drivers, which may result in increased competition for qualified drivers or higher costs of recruitment, operation and retention. Other factors outside of our control, such as the COVID-19 pandemic or other concerns about personal health and safety, increases in the price of gasoline, vehicles or insurance, or concerns about the availability of government or other assistance programs if drivers continue to drive on our platform, may also reduce the number of drivers on our platform or utilization of our platform by drivers, or impact our ability to onboard new drivers. If we fail to attract qualified drivers on favorable terms, fail to increase utilization of our platform by existing drivers or lose qualified drivers to our competitors, we may not be able to meet the demand of riders, including maintaining a competitive price of rides to riders, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to cost-effectively attract new riders, or to increase utilization of our platform by existing riders, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to cost-effectively attract new riders, retain existing riders and increase utilization of our platform by current riders. Riders have a wide variety of options for transportation, including personal vehicles, rental cars, taxis, public transit and other ridesharing and bike and scooter sharing offerings. Rider preferences may also change from time to time. To expand our rider base, we must appeal to new riders who have historically used other forms of transportation or other ridesharing or bike and scooter sharing platforms. We believe that our paid marketing initiatives have been critical in promoting awareness of our offerings, which in turn drives new rider growth and rider utilization. However, our reputation, brand and ability to build trust with existing and new riders may be adversely affected by complaints and negative publicity about us, our offerings, our policies, including our pricing algorithms, drivers on our platform, or our competitors, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents. Further, if existing and new riders do not perceive the transportation services provided by drivers on our platform to be reliable, safe and affordable, or if we fail to offer new and relevant offerings and features on our platform, we may not be able to attract or retain riders or to increase their utilization of our platform. As we continue to expand into new geographic areas, we will be relying in part on referrals from our existing riders to attract new riders, and therefore we must ensure that our existing riders remain satisfied with our offerings. If we fail to continue to grow our rider base, retain existing riders or increase the overall utilization of our platform by existing riders, we may not be able to provide drivers with an adequate level of ride requests, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, government and private business actions in response to the COVID-19 25 pandemic, such as travel bans, travel restrictions, shelter-in-place orders, increased reliance on work-from-home rather than working in offices, and people and businesses electing to move away from more densely populated cities, have decreased and may continue to decrease utilization of our platform by riders. In addition, if we do not achieve sufficient utilization of our asset-intensive offerings such as our network of shared bikes and scooters and Lyft Rentals vehicles, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely substantially on our wholly-owned subsidiary and deductibles to insure our auto-related risks and on third-party insurance policies to insure our operations-related risks. If our insurance coverage is insufficient for the needs of our business or our insurance providers are unable to meet their obligations, we may not be able to mitigate the risks facing our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From the time a driver becomes available to accept rides in the Lyft Driver App until the driver logs off and is no longer available to accept rides, we, through our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary and deductibles, often bear substantial financial risk with respect to auto-related incidents, including auto liability, uninsured and underinsured motorist, auto physical damage, first party injury coverages including personal injury protection under state law and general business liabilities up to certain limits. To comply with certain United States and Canadian province insurance regulatory requirements for auto-related risks, we procure a number of third-party insurance policies which provide the required coverage in such jurisdictions. In all U.S. states, our insurance subsidiary reinsures a portion, which may change from time to time, of the auto-related risk from some third-party insurance providers. In connection with our reinsurance and deductible arrangements, we deposit funds into trust accounts with a third-party financial institution from which some third-party insurance providers are reimbursed for claims payments. Our restricted reinsurance trust investments as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. If we fail to comply with state insurance regulatory requirements or other regulations governing insurance coverage, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If any of our third-party insurance providers or administrators who handle the claim on behalf of the third-party insurance providers become insolvent, they could be unable to pay any operations-related claims that we make. We also procure third-party insurance policies to cover various operations-related risks including employment practices liability, workers compensation, business interruptions, cybersecurity and data breaches, crime, directors and officers liability and general business liabilities, including product liability. For certain types of operations-related risks or future risks related to our new and evolving offerings, such as a scaled network of autonomous vehicles, we may not be able to, or may choose not to, acquire insurance. In addition, we may not obtain enough insurance to adequately mitigate such operations-related risks or risks related to our new and evolving offerings, and we may have to pay high premiums, self-insured retentions or deductibles for the coverage we do obtain. Additionally, if any of our insurance providers becomes insolvent, it could be unable to pay any operations-related claims that we make. Certain losses may be excluded from insurance coverage including, but not limited to losses caused by intentional act, pollution, contamination, virus, bacteria, terrorism, war and civil unrest. The amount of one or more auto-related claims or operations-related claims has exceeded and could continue to exceed our applicable aggregate coverage limits, for which we have borne and could continue to bear the excess, in addition to amounts already incurred in connection with deductibles, self-insured retentions or otherwise paid by our insurance subsidiary. Insurance providers have raised premiums and deductibles for many types of claims, coverages and for a variety of commercial risk and are likely to do so in the future. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we may decide to raise our deductibles or self-insured retentions when our policies are renewed or replaced to manage pricing pressure. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if (i) cost per claim, premiums or the number of claims significantly exceeds our historical experience (ii) we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, (iii) our insurance providers fail to pay on our insurance claims, (iv) we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided, (v) the number of claims and average claim cost under our deductibles or self-insured retentions differs from historic averages or (vi) an insurance policy is cancelled or non-renewed. Our actual losses may exceed our insurance reserves, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We establish insurance reserves for claims incurred but not yet paid and claims incurred but not yet reported and any related estimable expenses, and we periodically evaluate and, as necessary, adjust our actuarial assumptions and insurance reserves as our experience develops or new information is learned. We employ various predictive modeling and actuarial techniques and make numerous assumptions based on limited historical experience and industry statistics to estimate our insurance reserves. Estimating the number and severity of claims, as well as related judgment or settlement amounts, is inherently difficult, subjective and speculative. While an independent actuary firm periodically reviews our reserves for appropriateness and provides claims reserve valuations, a number of external factors can affect the actual losses incurred for any given claim, including but not limited to the length of time the claim remains open, fluctuations in healthcare costs, legislative and regulatory developments, judicial developments and unexpected events such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Such factors can impact the reserves for claims incurred but not yet paid as well as the actuarial assumptions used to estimate the reserves for claims incurred but not yet reported and any related estimable expenses for current and historical periods. Additionally, we have encountered in the past, and may encounter in the future, instances of insurance fraud, which could increase our actual insurance-related costs. For any of the foregoing reasons, our actual losses for claims and related expenses may deviate, individually or in the aggregate, from the insurance reserves reflected in our consolidated financial 26 statements. If we determine that our estimated insurance reserves are inadequate, we may be required to increase such reserves at the time of the determination, which could result in an increase to our net loss in the period in which the shortfall is determined and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the adverse development to insurance reserves we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2020 was largely attributable to historical auto losses that are associated with accident liabilities from the end of 2018 and 2019. We rely on a limited number of third-party insurance service providers for our auto-related insurance claims, and if such providers fail to service insurance claims to our expectations or we do not maintain business relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of third-party insurance service providers to service our auto-related claims. If any of our third-party insurance service providers fails to service claims to our expectations, discontinues or increases the cost of coverage or changes the terms of such coverage in a manner not favorable to drivers or to us, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to secure replacement coverage or services on reasonable terms in an acceptable time frame or at all. If we cannot find alternate third-party insurance service providers on terms acceptable to us, we may incur additional expenses related to servicing such auto-related claims using internal resources. We may, from time to time, explore the possibility of selling portions of retained insurance risk to third-parties. This may cause us to incur additional expenses in the total cost of this risk. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we entered into a Novation Agreement to transfer nearly all of our primary auto insurance liabilities related to periods preceding October 2018 to a third-party and in October 2020, we expanded our rideshare insurance program to include additional third-party insurance-service providers. Any negative publicity related to any of our third-party insurance service providers could adversely affect our reputation and brand and could potentially lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reputation, brand and the network effects among the drivers and riders on our platform are important to our success, and if we are not able to maintain and continue developing our reputation, brand and network effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We believe that building a strong reputation and brand as a safe, reliable and affordable platform and continuing to increase the strength of the network effects among the drivers and riders on our platform are critical to our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers and riders. The successful development of our reputation, brand and network effects will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Negative perception of our platform or company may harm our reputation, brand and networks effects, including as a result of: complaints or negative publicity about us, drivers on our platform, riders, our product offerings or our policies and guidelines, including our practices and policies with respect to drivers, or the ridesharing industry, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents; illegal, negligent, reckless or otherwise inappropriate behavior by drivers or riders or third parties; a failure to provide drivers with a sufficient level of ride requests, charge drivers competitive fees and commissions or provide drivers with competitive fares and incentives; a failure to offer riders competitive ride pricing and pick-up times; a failure to provide a range of ride types sought by riders; concerns by riders or drivers about the safety of ridesharing and our platform in light of the COVID-19 pandemic; actual or perceived disruptions or defects in our platform, such as privacy or data security breaches, site outages, payment disruptions or other incidents that impact the reliability of our offerings; litigation over, or investigations by regulators into, our platform or our business; users lack of awareness of, or compliance with, our policies; changes to our policies that users or others perceive as overly restrictive, unclear or inconsistent with our values or mission or that are not clearly articulated; a failure to detect a defect in our autonomous vehicles or our bikes or scooters; a failure to enforce our policies in a manner that users perceive as effective, fair and transparent; a failure to operate our business in a way that is consistent with our stated values and mission; inadequate or unsatisfactory user support service experiences; illegal or otherwise inappropriate behavior by our management team or other employees or contractors; negative responses by drivers or riders to new offerings on our platform; 27 accidents, defects or other negative incidents involving autonomous vehicles or bikes and scooters on our platform; perception of our treatment of employees and our response to employee sentiment related to political or social causes or actions of management; modification or discontinuation of our community or sustainability programs; political or social policies or activities; or any of the foregoing with respect to our competitors, to the extent such resulting negative perception affects the publics perception of us or our industry as a whole. If we do not successfully maintain and develop our brand, reputation and network effects and successfully differentiate our offerings from competitive offerings, our business may not grow, we may not be able to compete effectively and we could lose existing qualified drivers or existing riders or fail to attract new qualified drivers or new riders, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes we may make to enhance and improve our offerings and balance the needs and interests of the drivers and riders on our platform may be viewed positively from one groups perspective (such as riders) but negatively from anothers perspective (such as drivers), or may not be viewed positively by either drivers or riders. If we fail to balance the interests of drivers and riders or make changes that they view negatively, drivers and riders may stop using our platform, take fewer rides or use alternative platforms, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Illegal, improper or otherwise inappropriate activity of users, whether or not occurring while utilizing our platform, could expose us to liability and harm our business, brand, financial condition and results of operations. Illegal, improper or otherwise inappropriate activities by users, including the activities of individuals who may have previously engaged with, but are not then receiving or providing services offered through, our platform or individuals who are intentionally impersonating users of our platform could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. These activities may include assault, theft, unauthorized use of credit and debit cards or bank accounts, sharing of rider or driver accounts and other misconduct. While we have implemented various measures intended to anticipate, identify and address the risk of these types of activities, these measures may not adequately address or prevent all illegal, improper or otherwise inappropriate activity by these parties from occurring in connection with our offerings. Such conduct could expose us to liability or adversely affect our brand or reputation. At the same time, if the measures we have taken to guard against these illegal, improper or otherwise inappropriate activities, such as our requirement that all drivers undergo annual background checks or our two-way rating system and related policies, are too restrictive and inadvertently prevent qualified drivers and riders otherwise in good standing from using our offerings, or if we are unable to implement and communicate these measures fairly and transparently or are perceived to have failed to do so, the growth and retention of the number of qualified drivers and riders on our platform and their utilization of our platform could be negatively impacted. Further, any negative publicity related to the foregoing, whether such incident occurred on our platform, on our competitors platforms, or on any ridesharing platform, could adversely affect our reputation and brand or public perception of the ridesharing industry as a whole, which could negatively affect demand for platforms like ours, and potentially lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. Any of the foregoing risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party background check providers to screen potential and existing drivers, and if such providers fail to provide accurate information, or if providers are unable to complete background checks because of court closures or other unforeseen government shutdown, or we do not maintain business relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on third-party background check providers to screen the records of potential and existing drivers to help identify those that are not qualified to utilize our platform pursuant to applicable law or our internal standards. Our business has and may continue to be adversely affected to the extent we cannot attract or retain qualified drivers as a result of such providers being unable to complete certain background checks because of court closures or other government shutdown related to the COVID-19 pandemic, or to the extent that they do not meet their contractual obligations, our expectations or the requirements of applicable law or regulations. If any of our third-party background check providers terminates its relationship with us or refuses to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, we may need to find an alternate provider, and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such partners in an acceptable time frame. If we cannot find alternate third-party background check providers on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to timely onboard potential drivers, and as a result, our platform may be less attractive to qualified drivers. Further, if the background checks conducted by our third-party background check providers do not meet our expectations or the requirements under applicable laws and regulations, unqualified drivers may be permitted to provide rides on our platform, and as a result, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected and we could be subject to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. We are also subject to a number of laws and regulations applicable to background checks for potential and existing drivers on our platform. If we or drivers on our platform fail to comply with applicable laws, rules and legislation, our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 28 Any negative publicity related to any of our third-party background check providers, including publicity related to safety incidents or data security breaches, could adversely affect our reputation and brand, and could potentially lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to our pricing could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain qualified drivers and riders. Demand for our offerings is highly sensitive to the price of rides, the rates for time and distance driven and incentives paid to drivers and the fees we charge drivers. Many factors, including operating costs, legal and regulatory requirements or constraints and our current and future competitors pricing and marketing strategies, could significantly affect our pricing strategies. Certain of our competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower-priced or a broader range of offerings. Similarly, certain competitors may use marketing strategies that enable them to attract or retain qualified drivers and riders at a lower cost than us. This includes the use of pricing algorithms to set dynamic prices depending on the route, time of day and pick-up and drop-off locations of riders. In the past, we have made pricing changes and spent significant amounts on marketing and both rider and driver incentives, and there can be no assurance that we will not be forced, through competition, regulation or otherwise, to reduce the price of rides for riders, increase the incentives we pay to drivers on our platform or reduce the fees we charge the drivers on our platform, or to increase our marketing and other expenses to attract and retain qualified drivers and riders in response to competitive pressures. Furthermore, the economic sensitivity of drivers and riders on our platform may vary by geographic location, and as we expand, our pricing methodologies may not enable us to compete effectively in these locations. Local regulations may affect our pricing in certain geographic locations, which could amplify these effects. For example, state and local laws and regulations regarding pricing during the COVID-19 pandemic have imposed limits on prices for certain rides and certain local regulations regarding minimum earnings standards for drivers have caused us to revise our pricing methodology in certain markets, including New York City and Seattle. We have launched, and may in the future launch, new pricing strategies and initiatives, such as subscription packages and driver or rider loyalty programs. We have also modified, and may in the future modify, existing pricing methodologies, such as our up-front pricing policy. Any of the foregoing actions may not ultimately be successful in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and riders. While we continue to maintain that drivers on our platform are independent contractors in legal and administrative proceedings, our arguments may ultimately be unsuccessful. A determination in, or settlement of, any legal proceeding, whether we are party to such legal proceeding or not, that classifies a driver utilizing a ridesharing platform as an employee, may require us to revise our pricing methodologies to account for such a change to driver classification. The recent passage of Proposition 22 in California will enable us to provide additional earning opportunities to drivers in California, including guaranteed earnings. We expect that this transition will continue to require additional costs and we expect to face other challenges as we transition drivers to this new model, including potential changes to our pricing. We have also launched, and may in the future launch, certain changes to the rates and fee structure for drivers on our platform, which may not ultimately be successful in attracting and retaining qualified drivers. Moreover, successful litigation to overturn Proposition 22, or the reclassification of drivers on our platform as employees could reduce the available supply of drivers as drivers leave the platform due to the changes in flexibility under an employment model. While we do and will attempt to optimize ride prices and balance supply and demand in our ridesharing marketplace, our assessments may not be accurate or there may be errors in the technology used in our pricing and we could be underpricing or overpricing our offerings. In addition, if the offerings on our platform change, then we may need to revise our pricing methodologies. As we continue to launch new and develop existing asset-intensive offerings such as our network of shared bikes and scooters, autonomous vehicles, Driver Hubs, Driver Centers and Mobile Services, Express Drive program and Lyft Rentals, factors such as maintenance, debt service, depreciation, asset life, supply chain efficiency and asset replacement may affect our pricing methodologies. Any such changes to our pricing methodologies or our ability to efficiently price our offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to efficiently grow and further develop our network of shared bikes and scooters, which may not grow as we expect or become profitable over time, and manage the related risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. While some major cities have widely adopted bike and scooter sharing, there can be no assurance that new markets we enter will accept, or existing markets will continue to accept, bike and scooter sharing, and even if they do, that we will be able to execute on our business strategy or that our related offerings will be successful in such markets. For example, in May 2019 the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency (SFMTA) opened a public permit application process for bike share operators in violation of our exclusive right to operate a bike share program in San Franciscos public rights-of-way. In June 2019, we filed an action for injunctive and declaratory relief through one of our subsidiaries to protect its negotiated right to exclusivity for a bike share program and, in July 2019, the court granted a preliminary injunction preventing the SFMTA from issuing any permits in violation of those exclusive rights. While we entered into a settlement agreement with SFMTA in January 2021 pursuant to which we settled this litigation and SFMTA agreed not to issue permits to other bike share operators in violation of our exclusive rights, other jurisdictions in which we currently hold, or may in the future hold, exclusive rights to operate could follow suit in issuing permits in violation of such exclusive rights or in making a determination that we do not hold exclusive rights to operate. A negative determination in other legal disputes regarding bike and scooter sharing, including an adverse determination regarding our existing rights to operate, could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. Additionally, we may from time to time be denied permits to operate, or be temporarily restricted from operating due to public health and safety measures, our bike share program or scooter share program in 29 certain jurisdictions. For example, the city of Miami suspended rentals of bikes and scooters from March through October 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and again suspended rentals of scooters from December 2020 through February 2021 due to concerns with certain aspects of the program. While we do not expect any denial or suspension in an individual region to have a material impact, these denials or suspensions in the aggregate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if we are able to successfully develop and implement our network of shared bikes and scooters, there may be heightened public skepticism of this nascent service offering. In particular, there could be negative public perception surrounding bike and scooter sharing, including the overall safety and the potential for injuries occurring as a result of accidents involving an increased number of bikes and scooters on the road, and the general safety of the bikes and scooters themselves. Such negative public perception may result from incidents on our platform or incidents involving our competitors offerings. We design and contract to manufacture bikes and scooters using a limited number of external suppliers, and a continuous, stable and cost-effective supply of bikes and scooters that meets our standards is critical to our operations. We expect to continue to rely on external suppliers in the future. There can be no assurance we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these suppliers and continue to be able to source our bikes and scooters on a stable basis, at a reasonable price or at all. We also design and contract to manufacture certain assets related to our network of shared bikes and scooters and we rely on a small number of suppliers for components and manufacturing services. The supply chain for our bikes and scooters exposes us to multiple potential sources of delivery failure or shortages. In the event that our supply of bikes and scooters or key components is interrupted or there are significant increases in prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in business conditions, force majeure, any public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, governmental or regulatory changes and other factors beyond our control have and could continue to affect our suppliers ability to deliver products on a timely basis. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, some of our suppliers have been delayed in delivering products, which has resulted in our later than anticipated deployment of products to the market in some cases. We incur significant costs related to the design, purchase, sourcing and operations of our network of shared bikes and scooters and we expect to continue incurring such costs as we expand our network of shared bikes and scooters. The prices and availability of bikes and scooters and related products may fluctuate depending on factors beyond our control including market and economic conditions, tariffs, changes to import or export regulations and demand. Substantial increases in prices of these assets or the cost of our operations would increase our costs and reduce our margins, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, customs authorities may challenge or disagree with our classification, valuation or country of origin determinations of our imports. Such challenges could result in tariff liabilities, including tariffs on past imports, as well as penalties and interest. Although we have reserved for potential payments of possible tariff liabilities in our financial statements, if these liabilities exceed such reserves, our financial condition could be harmed. Our bikes and scooters or components thereof, including bikes and scooters and components that we design and contract to manufacture using third-party suppliers, may experience quality problems, defects or acts of vandalism or theft from time to time, which could result in decreased usage of our network of shared bikes and scooters or loss of our bikes or scooters. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and fix all defects, vandalism or theft of our bikes and scooters. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, litigation or regulatory challenges, including personal injury or products liability claims, and harm to our reputation. The revenue we generate from our network of shared bikes and scooters may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to, among other things, seasonal factors including weather. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to assess the exact nature or extent of the effects of seasonality on our network of shared bikes and scooters, however, we expect the demand for our bike and scooter rentals to decline over the winter season and increase during more temperate and dry seasons. Our network of shared bikes and scooters is also subject to risks related to COVID-19, as discussed above. In particular, travel bans and restrictions, as well as shelter in place orders have decreased demand and we are unable to predict when and to what extent these public health and safety measures may be eased, how riders of shared bikes and scooters will respond to the easing of such measures, and whether additional measures may need to be implemented in the future, any of which may continue to result in decreased demand notwithstanding usual seasonality. Additionally, from time to time we may re-evaluate the markets in which we operate and the performance of our network of shared bikes and scooters, and we have discontinued and may in the future discontinue operations in certain markets as a result of such evaluations. Any of the foregoing risks and challenges could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to efficiently develop our own autonomous vehicle technologies or develop partnerships with other companies to offer autonomous vehicle technologies on our platform in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We partner with several companies to develop autonomous vehicle technology and offerings, including, at times, the development of jointly-owned intellectual property, and we continue to devote resources towards developing our own autonomous vehicle technology for use on our platforms. Autonomous driving is a new and evolving market, which makes it difficult to predict its acceptance, its growth, and the magnitude and timing of necessary investments and other trends, including when it may be more broadly or commercially available. Our initiatives may not perform as expected, which would reduce the return on our investments in 30 this area, and our partners may decide to terminate their partnerships with us. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic may adversely delay or prevent us, or our current or prospective partners and suppliers, from being able to develop or deploy autonomous vehicle technology. We recently announced that we were exploring strategic options for our Level 5 self-driving system development program. If we are unable to efficiently develop our own autonomous vehicle technology or to develop and maintain partnerships with other companies to offer autonomous vehicle technology on our platform, if we do so at a slower pace or at a higher cost or if our technology is less capable relative to our competitors, or if our efforts to optimize our strategy with regard to our autonomous vehicle technology development are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The autonomous vehicle industry may not continue to develop, or autonomous vehicles may not be adopted by the market, which could adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. We have invested, and plan to continue to invest, in the development of autonomous vehicle-related technology for use on our platforms. Autonomous driving involves a complex set of technologies, including the continued development of sensing, computing and control technology. We rely both on our own research and development and on strategic partnerships with third-party developers of such technologies, as such technologies are costly and in varying stages of maturity. There is no assurance that this research and development or these partnerships will result in the development of market-viable technologies or commercial success in a timely manner or at all. In order to gain acceptance, the reliability of autonomous vehicle technology must continue to advance. Additional challenges to the development and deployment of autonomous vehicle technology, all of which are outside of our control, include: market acceptance of autonomous vehicles; state, federal or municipal licensing requirements and other regulatory measures; necessary changes to infrastructure to enable adoption; concerns regarding electronic security and privacy; and public perception regarding the safety of autonomous vehicles for drivers, riders, pedestrians and other vehicles on the road. There are a number of existing laws, regulations and standards that may apply to autonomous vehicle technology, including vehicle standards that were not originally intended to apply to vehicles that may not have a human driver. Such regulations continue to rapidly evolve, which may increase the likelihood of complex, conflicting or otherwise inconsistent regulations, which may delay our ability to bring autonomous vehicle technology to market or significantly increase the compliance costs associated with this business strategy. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market will accept autonomous vehicles or the timing of such acceptance, if at all, and even if it does, that we will be able to execute on our business strategy or that our offerings will be successful in the market. Even if we are able to successfully develop and implement autonomous vehicle technology, there may be heightened public skepticism of this nascent technology and its adopters. In particular, there could be negative public perception surrounding autonomous vehicles, including the overall safety and the potential for injuries or death occurring as a result of accidents involving autonomous vehicles and the potential loss of income to human drivers resulting from widespread market adoption of autonomous vehicles. Such negative public perception may result from incidents on our platform or incidents on our partners or competitors platforms. Any of the foregoing risks and challenges could adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to claims from riders, drivers or third parties that are harmed whether or not our platform is in use, which could adversely affect our business, brand, financial condition and results of operations. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, investigations and other legal proceedings relating to injuries to, or deaths of, riders, drivers or third-parties that are attributed to us through our offerings. We may also be subject to claims alleging that we are directly or vicariously liable for the acts of the drivers on our platform or for harm related to the actions of drivers, riders, or third parties, or the management and safety of our platform and our assets, including in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures issued by various jurisdictions, including travel bans, restrictions, social distancing guidance, and shelter-in-place orders. We may also be subject to personal injury claims whether or not such injury actually occurred as a result of activity on our platform. For example, third parties have in the past asserted legal claims against us in connection with personal injuries related to the actions of a driver or rider who may have previously utilized our platform, but was not at the time of such injury. We have incurred expenses to settle personal injury claims, which we sometimes choose to settle for reasons including expediency, protection of our reputation and to prevent the uncertainty of litigating, and we expect that such expenses will continue to increase as our business grows and we face increasing public scrutiny. Regardless of the outcome of any legal proceeding, any injuries to, or deaths of, any riders, drivers or third parties could result in negative publicity and harm to our brand, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance policies and programs may not provide sufficient coverage to adequately mitigate the potential liability we face, especially where any one incident, or a group of incidents, could cause disproportionate harm, and we may have to pay high premiums or deductibles for our coverage and, for certain situations, we may not be able to secure coverage at all. As we expand our network of shared bikes and scooters, we may be subject to an increasing number of claims, lawsuits, investigations or other legal proceedings related to injuries to, or deaths of, riders of our bikes and scooters, including potential 31 indemnification claims. In some cases, we could be required to indemnify governmental entities for claims arising out of issues, including issues that may be outside of our control, such as the condition of the public right of way. Any such claims arising from the use of our bikes and scooters, regardless of merit or outcome, could lead to negative publicity, harm to our reputation and brand, significant legal, regulatory or financial exposure or decreased use of our bikes and scooters. Further, the bikes and scooters we design and contract to manufacture using third-party suppliers and manufacturers, including certain assets and components we design and have manufactured for us, could contain design or manufacturing defects, which could also lead to injuries or death to riders. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect, prevent, or fix all defects, and failure to do so could harm our reputation and brand or result in personal injury or products liability claims or regulatory proceedings. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our bikes and scooters may experience quality problems from time to time, which could result in product recalls and removal from service, injuries, litigation, enforcement actions and regulatory proceedings, and could adversely affect our business, brand, financial condition and results of operations. We design, contract to design and manufacture, and directly and indirectly modify, maintain and repair, bikes and scooters for our network of shared bikes and scooters. Such bikes and scooters may contain defects in their design, materials and construction, may be improperly maintained or repaired or may be subject to vandalism. These defects, improper maintenance or repair or vandalism have in the past unexpectedly interfered, and could in the future unexpectedly interfere, with the intended operations of the bikes or scooters, and have resulted, and could in the future result, in other safety concerns, including alleged injuries to riders or third parties. Although we, our contract manufacturers and our third-party service providers test our bikes and scooters before they are deployed onto our network, there can be no assurance we will be able to detect or prevent all defects. Failure to detect, prevent or fix defects and vandalism, or to properly maintain or repair our bikes and scooters could result in a variety of consequences including product recalls and removal from service, service interruptions, injuries, litigation, enforcement actions and regulatory proceedings. The occurrence of real or perceived quality problems or material defects in our current or future bikes and scooters could result in negative publicity, service interruptions, regulatory proceedings, enforcement actions or lawsuits filed against us, particularly if riders or third parties are injured. Even if injuries to riders or third parties are not the result of any defects in, vandalism of, or the failure to properly maintain or repair our bikes or scooters, we may incur expenses to defend or settle any claims or respond to regulatory inquiries, and our brand and reputation may be harmed. Any of the foregoing risks could also result in decreased usage of our network of shared bikes and scooters and adversely affect our business, brand, financial conditions and results of operations. Our revenue growth rate and financial performance in recent periods may not be indicative of future performance and such revenue growth rate or growth in demand for our offerings may slow over time. Prior to COVID-19, we grew rapidly. In 2020, due to COVID-19 and the related government and public health measures, our revenue declined significantly. Accordingly, our recent revenue growth rate and financial performance, both prior to the effects of COVID-19, and the decline related to COVID-19, should not be considered indicative of our future performance. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, our revenue was $2.4 billion, $3.6 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, representing a 35% decrease in rate from 2019 to 2020 and a 68% growth rate from 2018 to 2019. We have experienced a decline in revenue in 2020 due to decreased demand for our ridesharing platform in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, and we expect that our revenue growth rate and financial performance in future quarters will continue to be harmed. You should not rely on our revenue for any previous quarterly or annual period as any indication of our revenue or revenue growth in future periods. As our business recovers from the effects of COVID-19 and we endeavor to return to growth, our revenue growth rates will fluctuate due to a number of reasons, which may include long-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, slowing demand for our offerings, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market or market saturation, increasing regulatory costs and challenges and resulting changes to our business model and our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Since 2012, we have generally experienced rapid growth in our business, the number of users on our platform and our geographic reach, and we expect to continue to experience growth in the future. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Employee growth has occurred both at our San Francisco headquarters and in a number of our offices across the United States and internationally. The number of our full-time employees increased from 2,708 as of December 31, 2017, to 4,675 as of December 31, 2020. However, in the second quarter of 2020, we implemented a plan of termination to reduce operating expenses and adjust cash flows in light of the ongoing economic challenges resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, which plan involved the termination of approximately 17% of our employees. Steps we take to manage our business operations, including remote work policies for employees, and to align our operations with our strategies for future growth may adversely affect our reputation and brand, our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Our ability to manage our growth and business operations effectively and to integrate new employees, technologies and acquisitions into our existing business will require us to continue to expand our operational and financial infrastructure and to continue 32 to retain, attract, train, motivate and manage employees. Continued growth could strain our ability to develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures, recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel and maintain user satisfaction. Additionally, if we do not effectively manage the growth of our business and operations, the quality of our offerings could suffer, which could negatively affect our reputation and brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Any actual or perceived security or privacy breach could interrupt our operations, harm our brand and adversely affect our reputation, brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of our users personal data and other sensitive data. An increasing number of organizations, including large online and off-line merchants and businesses, other large Internet companies, financial institutions and government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems and other information security incidents, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage information systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us, we may be unable to anticipate or prevent these attacks. Unauthorized parties have in the past gained access, and may in the future gain access, to our systems or facilities through various means, including gaining unauthorized access into our systems or facilities or those of our service providers, partners or users on our platform, or attempting to fraudulently induce our employees, service providers, partners, users or others into disclosing rider names, passwords, payment card information or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems, or attempting to fraudulently induce our employees, partners or others into manipulating payment information, resulting in the fraudulent transfer of funds to criminal actors. In addition, users on our platform could have vulnerabilities on their own mobile devices that are entirely unrelated to our systems and platform, but could mistakenly attribute their own vulnerabilities to us. Further, breaches experienced by other companies may also be leveraged against us. For example, credential stuffing attacks are becoming increasingly common and sophisticated actors can mask their attacks, making them increasingly difficult to identify and prevent. Certain efforts may be state-sponsored or supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more difficult to detect. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our users data, prevent data loss and prevent other security breaches, these security measures cannot guarantee total security. Our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our users personal information and payment card data that are accessible through those systems. Additionally, as we expand our operations, including having employees or third-party relationships in jurisdictions outside the United States, or expand work-from-home practices of our employees (including increased use of video conferencing), our exposure to cyberattacks or security breaches may increase. Further, employee error, malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in an actual or perceived privacy or security breach or other security incident. Although we have policies restricting the access to the personal information we store, our employees have been accused in the past of violating these policies and we may be subject to these types of accusations in the future. Any actual or perceived breach of privacy or security could interrupt our operations, result in our platform being unavailable, result in loss or improper disclosure of data, result in fraudulent transfer of funds, harm our reputation and brand, damage our relationships with third-party partners, result in significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and lead to loss of driver or rider confidence in, or decreased use of, our platform, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any breach of privacy or security impacting any entities with which we share or disclose data (including, for example, our third-party technology providers) could have similar effects. In addition, any actual or perceived breach of security in any autonomous vehicles, whether ours or our competitors, could result in legal, regulatory and financial exposure and lead to loss of rider confidence in our platform, which could significantly undermine our business strategy. Further, any cyberattacks or security and privacy breaches directed at our competitors could reduce confidence in the ridesharing industry as a whole and, as a result, reduce confidence in us. Additionally, defending against claims or litigation based on any security breach or incident, regardless of their merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data handling or data security liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. We primarily rely on Amazon Web Services to deliver our offerings to users on our platform, and any disruption of or interference with our use of Amazon Web Services could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently host our platform and support our operations using Amazon Web Services, or AWS, a third-party provider of cloud infrastructure services. We do not have control over the operations of the facilities of AWS that we use. AWS facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, cybersecurity attacks, terrorist attacks, power outages and similar events or acts of misconduct. Our platforms continuing and uninterrupted performance is critical to our success. We have experienced, and expect that in the future we will experience, interruptions, delays and outages in service and availability from time to time due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, website hosting disruptions and capacity constraints. In 33 addition, any changes in AWS service levels may adversely affect our ability to meet the requirements of users. Since our platforms continuing and uninterrupted performance is critical to our success, sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our offerings. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our performance, especially during peak usage times, as we expand and the usage of our offerings increases. Any negative publicity arising from these disruptions could harm our reputation and brand and may adversely affect the usage of our offerings. Our commercial agreement with AWS will remain in effect until terminated by AWS or us. AWS may only terminate the agreement for convenience after September 30, 2022, and only after complying with certain advance notice requirements. AWS may also terminate the agreement for cause upon a breach of the agreement or for failure to pay amounts due, in each case, subject to AWS providing prior written notice and a 30-day cure period. In the event that our agreement with AWS is terminated or we add additional cloud infrastructure service providers, we may experience significant costs or downtime in connection with the transfer to, or the addition of, new cloud infrastructure service providers. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation and brand, reduce the availability or usage of our platform, lead to a significant short term loss of revenue, increase our costs and impair our ability to attract new users, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In January 2019, we entered into an addendum to our commercial agreement with AWS, pursuant to which we committed to spend an aggregate of at least $300 million between January 2019 and December 2021 on AWS services, with a minimum amount of $80 million in each of the three years. In May 2020, we amended the addendum to extend the commitment period through June 2022 with no change to the aggregate commitment amounts. If we fail to meet the minimum purchase commitment during any year, we may be required to pay the difference, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party and affiliate vehicle rental partners for our Express Drive program as well as third-party vehicle supply, fleet management and finance partners to support our Express Drive Program and Lyft Rentals Program, and if we cannot manage our relationships with such parties and other risks related to our Express Drive and Lyft Rentals program, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on third-party and affiliate vehicle rental partners as well as third-party vehicle supply, fleet management and finance partners to supply vehicles to drivers for our Express Drive program. If any of our third-party vehicle rental partners or third-party vehicle supply, fleet management and finance partners terminates its relationship with us or refuses to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of vehicles for drivers in certain markets could be adversely impacted, and we may need to find an alternate provider, and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such partners in an acceptable time frame. Similarly, in the event that vehicle manufacturers issue recalls or the supply of vehicles or automotive parts is interrupted, including as a result of public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, affecting vehicles in these partners fleets, the supply of vehicles available from these partners could become constrained. For example, in September 2019, GM issued a recall affecting the 2018 Chevy Malibu, which affected a moderate portion of the fleet provided by Lyfts rental partners. In addition, in May 2020, Hertz filed for bankruptcy protection, which may affect their ability to meet the requirements of our Express Drive program. If we cannot find alternate third-party vehicle rental providers on terms acceptable to us, or these partners or Lyfts fleets are impacted by events such as vehicle recalls, we may not be able to meet the driver and consumer demand for rental vehicles, and as a result, our platform may be less attractive to qualified drivers and consumers. In addition, due to a number of factors, including our agreements with our vehicle rental partners and our auto-related insurance program, we incur an incrementally higher insurance cost from our Express Drive program compared to the corresponding cost from the rest of our ridesharing marketplace offerings. In the first quarter of 2020, Lyft acquired one of the rental partners in the Express Drive program, Flexdrive, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Lyft. While wholly-owned by Lyft, Flexdrive will continue operating as an independent company, maintaining its own governance, management, personnel and assets, including its fleet. If Lyft and Flexdrive are unable to manage costs of operating Flexdrives fleet and potential shortfalls between such costs and the rental fees collected from drivers, we may update the pricing methodologies related to Flexdrives offering in Lyfts Express Drive program which could increase prices, and in turn adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers. Any negative publicity related to any of our third-party and affiliate vehicle rental partners, including publicity related to quality standards or safety concerns, could adversely affect our reputation and brand and could potentially lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Express Drive and Lyft Rentals programs expose us to certain risks, including with respect to decreases in the residual value related to the used car market values, or reductions in the utilization, of vehicles in the fleet. For the Lyft Rentals consumer car rental business and, through our subsidiary Flexdrive, for vehicles rented to drivers through our Express Drive program, we source a portion of the fleet from a range of auto manufacturers. To the extent that any of these auto manufacturers significantly curtail production, increase the cost of purchasing cars or decline to sell cars to us on terms or at prices consistent with past agreements, despite sourcing vehicles from the used car market and other efforts to mitigate, we may be unable to obtain a sufficient number of vehicles to operate our Express Drive or Lyft Rentals businesses without significantly increasing our fleet costs or reducing our volumes. Similarly, where events, such as natural disasters or public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, make operating rental locations difficult or impossible, or adversely impact rider demand, the demand for or ability to rent vehicles in Lyft Rentals or the Express Drive program has been and could continue to be adversely affected, resulting in 34 reduced utilization of the vehicles in the fleet. Reduced utilization has increased and could continue to increase costs of maintaining the fleet or storing or moving unused vehicles. The costs of the fleet vehicles may also be adversely impacted by the relative strength of the used car market. We currently sell vehicles through auctions, third-party resellers and other channels in the used vehicle marketplace. Such channels may not produce stable used vehicle prices. It may be difficult to estimate the residual value of vehicles used in ridesharing, such as those rented to drivers through our Express Drive program. Further, market events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have affected the demand for or pricing in the used vehicle market. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, other operators of large fleets, such as rental companies, are reportedly seeking to place large volumes of vehicles into the resale market, which have driven down the price and corresponding residual value of used vehicles. A reduction in residual values for vehicles in our fleet could cause us to sustain a substantial loss on the ultimate sale of such vehicles or require us to depreciate those vehicles at a more accelerated rate while we own them. If we are unable to obtain and maintain the fleet of vehicles cost-efficiently or if we are unable to accurately forecast the residual values of vehicles in the fleet, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on third-party payment processors to process payments made by riders and payments made to drivers on our platform, and if we cannot manage our relationships with such third parties and other payment-related risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of third-party payment processors to process payments made by riders and payments made to drivers on our platform. If any of our third-party payment processors terminates its relationship with us or refuses to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, we would need to find an alternate payment processor, and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such payment processor in an acceptable time frame. Further, the software and services provided by our third-party payment processors may not meet our expectations, contain errors or vulnerabilities, be compromised or experience outages. Any of these risks could cause us to lose our ability to accept online payments or other payment transactions or make timely payments to drivers on our platform, any of which could make our platform less convenient and attractive to users and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers and riders. Nearly all rider payments and driver payouts are made by credit card, debit card or through third-party payment services, which subjects us to certain payment network or service provider operating rules, to certain regulations and to the risk of fraud. We may in the future offer new payment options to riders that may be subject to additional operating rules, regulations and risks. We may be also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to the payments we accept from riders, including with respect to money laundering, money transfers, privacy and information security. If we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, fines or higher transaction fees and may lose our ability to accept online payments or other payment card transactions, which could make our offerings less convenient and attractive to riders. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, if we are deemed to be a money transmitter as defined by applicable regulation, we could be subject to certain laws, rules and regulations enforced by multiple authorities and governing bodies in the United States and numerous state and local agencies who may define money transmitter differently. For example, certain states may have a more expansive view of who qualifies as a money transmitter. Additionally, outside of the United States, we could be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations related to the provision of payments and financial services, and if we expand into new jurisdictions, the foreign regulations and regulators governing our business that we are subject to will expand as well. If we are found to be a money transmitter under any applicable regulation and we are not in compliance with such regulations, we may be subject to fines or other penalties in one or more jurisdictions levied by federal or state or local regulators, including state Attorneys General, as well as those levied by foreign regulators. In addition to fines, penalties for failing to comply with applicable rules and regulations could include criminal and civil proceedings, forfeiture of significant assets or other enforcement actions. We could also be required to make changes to our business practices or compliance programs as a result of regulatory scrutiny. For various payment options, we are required to pay fees such as interchange and processing fees that are imposed by payment processors, payment networks and financial institutions. These fees are subject to increases, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, our payment processors require us to comply with payment card network operating rules, which are set and interpreted by the payment card networks. The payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules in ways that might prohibit us from providing certain offerings to some users, be costly to implement or difficult to follow. We have agreed to reimburse our payment processors for fines they are assessed by payment card networks if we or the users on our platform violate these rules. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on other third-party service providers and if such third parties do not perform adequately or terminate their relationships with us, our costs may increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our relationships with other third-party service providers. For example, we rely on third-party encryption and authentication technologies licensed from third parties that are designed to securely transmit personal information provided by drivers and riders on our platform. Further, from time to time, we enter into strategic commercial partnerships in 35 connection with the development of new technology, the growth of our qualified driver base, the provision of new or enhanced offerings for users on our platform and our expansion into new markets. If any of our partners terminates its relationship with us, including as a result of COVID-19-related impacts to their business and operations or for competitive reasons, or refuses to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, we would need to find an alternate provider, and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such providers in an acceptable time frame. We also rely on other software and services supplied by third parties, such as communications and internal software, and our business may be adversely affected to the extent such software and services do not meet our expectations, contain errors or vulnerabilities, are compromised or experience outages. Any of these risks could increase our costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, any negative publicity related to any of our third-party partners, including any publicity related to quality standards or safety concerns, could adversely affect our reputation and brand, and could potentially lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. We incorporate technology from third parties into our platform. We cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of others or that the suppliers and licensors have sufficient rights to the technology in all jurisdictions in which we may operate. Some of our license agreements may be terminated by our licensors for convenience. If we are unable to obtain or maintain rights to any of this technology because of intellectual property infringement claims brought by third parties against our suppliers and licensors or against us, or if we are unable to continue to obtain the technology or enter into new agreements on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to develop our platform containing that technology could be severely limited and our business could be harmed. Additionally, if we are unable to obtain necessary technology from third parties, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternate technology, which may require significant time and effort and may be of lower quality or performance standards. This would limit and delay our ability to provide new or competitive offerings and increase our costs. If alternate technology cannot be obtained or developed, we may not be able to offer certain functionality as part of our offerings, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to successfully develop new offerings on our platform and enhance our existing offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to attract new qualified drivers and new riders, retain existing qualified drivers and existing riders and increase utilization of our offerings will depend in part on our ability to successfully create and introduce new offerings and to improve upon and enhance our existing offerings. As a result, we may introduce significant changes to our existing offerings or develop and introduce new and unproven offerings. For example, in 2018, we launched our scooter sharing offering on our platform in certain markets and in April 2020, we began piloting a delivery service platform in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. If these new or enhanced offerings are unsuccessful, including as a result of any inability to obtain and maintain required permits or authorizations or other regulatory constraints or because they fail to generate sufficient return on our investments, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, new driver or rider demands regarding service or platform features, the availability of superior competitive offerings or a deterioration in the quality of our offerings or our ability to bring new or enhanced offerings to market quickly and efficiently could negatively affect the attractiveness of our platform and the economics of our business and require us to make substantial changes to and additional investments in our offerings or our business model. In addition, we frequently experiment with and test different offerings and marketing strategies. If these experiments and tests are unsuccessful, or if the offerings and strategies we introduce based on the results of such experiments and tests do not perform as expected, our ability to attract new qualified drivers and new riders, retain existing qualified drivers and existing riders and maintain or increase utilization of our offerings may be adversely affected. Developing and launching new offerings or enhancements to the existing offerings on our platform involves significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to the reception of such offerings by existing and potential future drivers and riders, increases in operational complexity, unanticipated delays or challenges in implementing such offerings or enhancements, increased strain on our operational and internal resources (including an impairment of our ability to accurately forecast rider demand and the number of drivers using our platform) and negative publicity in the event such new or enhanced offerings are perceived to be unsuccessful. We have scaled our business rapidly, and significant new initiatives have in the past resulted in, and in the future may result in, operational challenges affecting our business. In addition, developing and launching new offerings and enhancements to our existing offerings may involve significant up-front capital investments and such investments may not generate return on investment. Further, from time to time we may reevaluate, discontinue and/or reduce these investments and decide to discontinue one or more offerings. Any of the foregoing risks and challenges could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers and riders, our ability to increase utilization of our offerings and our visibility into expected results of operations, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, since we are focused on building our community and ecosystems for the long-term, our near-term results of operations may be impacted by our investments in the future. If we are unable to successfully manage the complexities associated with our expanding multimodal platform, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our expansion into bike and scooter sharing, other modes of transportation, auto repair and collision services, vehicle rental programs and delivery services has increased the complexity of our business. These new offerings have required us to develop new expertise and marketing and operational strategies, and have subjected us to new laws, regulations and risks. For example, we face the 36 risk that our network of shared bikes and scooters, our Nearby Transit offering, which integrates third-party public transit data into the Lyft App, and other future transportation offerings could reduce the use of our ridesharing offering. Additionally, from time to time we may reevaluate our offerings on our multimodal platform and decide to discontinue an offering or certain features. Such actions may negatively impact revenue in the short term and may not provide the benefits we expect in the long term. If we are unable to successfully manage the complexities associated with our expanding multimodal platform, including the effects our new and evolving offerings have on our existing business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our new delivery service platform may not be successful and may expose us to additional risks. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we are piloting a new delivery service platform for a period of time to assess its feasibility. This offering, which began in April 2020, currently allows businesses to send goods, including meals and medical supplies, from one location to another. Drivers are provided the opportunity to opt-in to receive delivery requests and are currently paid based on the driver rate card for a standard Lyft ride. Delivery is not currently available in all markets and therefore not all drivers have the opportunity to receive delivery requests at this time. We face a number of challenges that may affect the ultimate success of this offering, including: the market for this offering may not be sustained following the COVID-19 pandemic, or may not develop at all; we may be unable to attract and retain drivers for this offering, and drivers currently using our platform may not opt-in to drive for this offering, which may create shortages of driver supply; we may be unable to attract and retain businesses to participate in this offering; we may fail to develop an effective pricing model for this offering that incentivizes drivers and businesses to use this offering while maintaining margins for us; our competitors may have more experience with respect to business or consumer deliveries, greater brand recognition in the delivery space, or greater financial or other resources that enable them to derive greater revenue, attract and retain drivers and businesses for their similar offerings, and more efficiently provide their offerings; we may incur additional costs and expenses associated with providing business or consumer delivery services, including insurance-related and other costs; we may be subject to litigation in a number of areas, including personal injury and automotive liability, and we may be unsuccessful in compelling to arbitration claims brought by drivers providing rideshare and delivery services on the Lyft Platform; we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that are costly to comply with and may affect the profitability of this offering, including laws and regulations regarding pricing, and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations will adversely affect our deliveries offering; the recent passage of Proposition 22 in California may have an impact on delivery rate cards, which could impact our competitiveness and ability to operate within California; and we may fail to effectively respond to market developments in a timely manner, or at all. Additionally, the development of this delivery service platform may divert resources, including managements attention, from our other offerings and adversely affect their development. If we are unable to develop and grow our delivery service platform, or unable to do so cost-effectively, whether as a result of our own actions or market conditions more generally, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our metrics and estimates, including the key metrics included in this report, are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in those metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our metrics used to evaluate our growth, measure our performance and make strategic decisions. These metrics are calculated using internal company data and have not been evaluated by a third-party. Our metrics may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology or the assumptions on which we rely, and we may make material adjustments to our processes for calculating our metrics in order to enhance accuracy, because better information becomes available or other reasons, which may result in changes to our metrics. The estimates and forecasts we disclose relating to the size and expected growth of our addressable market may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the markets in which we compete meet the size estimates and growth we have forecasted, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. If investors or analysts do not consider our metrics to be accurate representations 37 of our business, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, then the trading price of our Class A common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our marketing efforts to help grow our business may not be effective. Promoting awareness of our offerings is important to our ability to grow our business and to attract new qualified drivers and new riders and can be costly. We believe that much of the growth in our rider base and the number of drivers on our platform is attributable to our paid marketing initiatives. Our marketing efforts currently include referrals, affiliate programs, free or discount trials, partnerships, display advertising, television, billboards, radio, video, content, direct mail, social media, email, hiring and classified advertisement websites, mobile push communications, search engine optimization and keyword search campaigns. Our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive and generating a meaningful return on those initiatives may be difficult. Even if we successfully increase revenue as a result of our paid marketing efforts, it may not offset the additional marketing expenses we incur. If our marketing efforts are not successful in promoting awareness of our offerings or attracting new qualified drivers and new riders, or if we are not able to cost-effectively manage our marketing expenses, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If our marketing efforts are successful in increasing awareness of our offerings, this could also lead to increased public scrutiny of our business and increase the likelihood of third parties bringing legal proceedings against us. Any of the foregoing risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have slowed our marketing efforts across certain platforms, which may limit the effectiveness of our other marketing efforts and limit awareness of our offerings. Any failure to offer high-quality user support may harm our relationships with users and could adversely affect our reputation, brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain qualified drivers and riders is dependent in part on the ease and reliability of our offerings, including our ability to provide high-quality support. Users on our platform depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our offerings, such as being overcharged for a ride, leaving something in a drivers vehicle or reporting a safety incident. Our ability to provide effective and timely support is largely dependent on our ability to attract and retain service providers who are qualified to support users and sufficiently knowledgeable regarding our offerings. As we continue to grow our business and improve our offerings, we will face challenges related to providing quality support services at scale. If we grow our international rider base and the number of international drivers on our platform, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support in languages other than English. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic may impact our ability to provide effective and timely support, including as a result of a decrease in the availability of service providers and increase in response time. Any failure to provide efficient user support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to deal effectively with fraud could harm our business. We have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, losses from various types of fraud, including use of stolen or fraudulent credit card data, claims of unauthorized payments by a rider, attempted payments by riders with insufficient funds and fraud committed by riders in concert with drivers. Bad actors use increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities involving personal information, such as unauthorized use of another persons identity, account information or payment information and unauthorized acquisition or use of credit or debit card details, bank account information and mobile phone numbers and accounts. Under current card payment practices, we may be liable for rides facilitated on our platform with fraudulent credit card data, even if the associated financial institution approved the credit card transaction. Despite measures that we have taken to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent or other malicious activity on our platform, we cannot guarantee that any of our measures will be effective or will scale efficiently with our business. Our inability to adequately detect or prevent fraudulent transactions could harm our reputation or brand, result in litigation or regulatory action and lead to expenses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have also incurred, and may in the future incur, losses from fraud and other misuse of our platform by drivers and riders, including in connection with programs we put in place in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, we have experienced reduced revenue from actual and alleged unauthorized rides fulfilled and miles traveled in connection with our Concierge offering. If we are unable to adequately anticipate and address such misuse either through increased controls, platform solutions or other means, our partner relationships, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively match riders on our Shared and Shared Saver Rides offering and manage the related pricing methodologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Shared and Shared Saver Rides enables unrelated parties traveling along similar routes to benefit from a discounted fare at the cost of possibly longer travel times. With a Shared or Shared Saver Ride, when the first rider requests a ride, our algorithms use the first riders destination and attempt to match them with other riders traveling along a similar route. If a match between riders is made, our algorithms re-route the driver to include the pick-up location of the matched rider on the active route. For Shared and 38 Shared Saver Rides, drivers earn a fixed amount based on a number of factors, including the time and distance of the ride, the base fare charged to riders and the level of rider demand. We determine the rider fare based on the predicted time and distance of the ride, the level of rider demand and the likelihood of being able to match additional riders along the given route, and such fare is quoted to the riders prior to their commitment to the ride. The fare charged to the riders is decoupled from the payment made to the driver as we do not adjust the driver payment based on the success or failure of a match. Accordingly, if the discounted fare quoted and charged to our Shared or Shared Saver Rides riders is less than the fixed amount that drivers earn or if our algorithms are unable to consistently match Shared or Shared Saver Rides riders, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have suspended Shared and Shared Saver Rides on our platform. While we believe these suspensions are in the best interests of drivers and riders on our platform, these suspensions have adversely affected our business and results of operations. We currently do not have a timetable for ending this suspension in whole or in part, and to the extent we continue to suspend these offerings during the COVID-19 pandemic, or demand for these offerings is adversely affected following the end of these suspensions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage our up-front pricing methodology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. With the adoption of our up-front pricing methodology, we quote a price to riders of our ridesharing offering before they request a ride. We earn fees from drivers either as the difference between an amount paid by a rider based on an up-front quoted fare and the amount earned by a driver based on the actual time and distance for the trip or as a fixed percentage of the fare charged to the rider, in each case, less any applicable driver incentives and any pass-through amounts paid to drivers and regulatory agencies. As we do not control the drivers actions at any point in the transaction to limit the time and distance for the trip, we take on risks related to the drivers actions which may not be fully mitigated. We may incur a loss from a transaction where an up-front quoted fare paid by a rider is less than the amount we committed to pay a driver. In addition, riders price sensitivity varies by geographic location, among other factors, and if we are unable to effectively account for such variability in our up-front prices, our ability to compete effectively in these locations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our up-front pricing methodology in conjunction with our existing and future pricing and incentive programs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our website, applications, platform or offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems, or those of third parties upon which we rely, may experience service interruptions or degradation because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, distributed denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, malware or other events. Our systems also may be subject to break-ins, sabotage, theft and intentional acts of vandalism, including by our own employees. Some of our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. We have experienced and will likely continue to experience system failures and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce or affect the speed or functionality of our offerings. These events have resulted in, and similar future events could result in, losses of revenue. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed or other functionality of our offerings could adversely affect our business and reputation and could result in the loss of users. Moreover, to the extent that any system failure or similar event results in harm or losses to the users using our platform, we may make voluntary payments to compensate for such harm or the affected users could seek monetary recourse or contractual remedies from us for their losses and such claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Our company culture has contributed to our success and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, our business could be harmed. We believe that our company culture, which promotes authenticity, empathy and support for others, has been critical to our success. We face a number of challenges that may affect our ability to sustain our corporate culture, including: failure to identify, attract, reward and retain people in leadership positions in our organization who share and further our culture, values and mission; the increasing size and geographic diversity of our workforce; shelter-in-place orders in certain jurisdictions where we operate that have required many of our employees to work remotely; the inability to achieve adherence to our internal policies and core values, including our diversity, equity and inclusion practices and initiatives; 39 competitive pressures to move in directions that may divert us from our mission, vision and values; the continued challenges of a rapidly-evolving industry; the increasing need to develop expertise in new areas of business that affect us; negative perception of our treatment of employees or our response to employee sentiment related to political or social causes or actions of management; the provision of employee benefits in the COVID-19 environment; and the integration of new personnel and businesses from acquisitions. From time to time, we have undertaken workforce reductions in order to better align our operations with our strategic priorities, managing our cost structure or in connection with acquisitions. For example, in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, we took certain cost-cutting measures, including lay-offs, furloughs and salary reductions, which may adversely affect employee morale, our culture and our ability to attract and retain employees. These actions may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain personnel and maintain our culture. If we are not able to maintain our culture, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel and other highly skilled personnel, and if we fail to attract, retain, motivate or integrate our personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on the continued service of our founders, senior management team, key technical employees and other highly skilled personnel and on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and integrate highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs and actions we take in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business may harm our reputation or impact our ability to recruit qualified personnel in the future. For example, in April 2020, in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, we took certain cost-cutting measures, including lay-offs, furloughs and salary reductions, which may adversely affect employee morale, our culture and our ability to attract and retain employees. Also, all of our U.S.-based employees, including our management team, work for us on an at-will basis, and there is no assurance that any such employee will remain with us. Our competitors may be successful in recruiting and hiring members of our management team or other key employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, particularly in critical areas of our business, we may not achieve our strategic goals. We face intense competition for highly skilled personnel, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled personnel. To attract and retain top talent, we have had to offer, and we believe we will need to continue to offer, competitive compensation and benefits packages. Job candidates and existing personnel often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines or we are unable to provide competitive compensation packages, it may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, and we may experience increased attrition. Certain of our employees have received significant proceeds from sales of our equity in private transactions and many of our employees have received and may continue to receive significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and expend significant time and resources to identify, recruit, train and integrate such employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. If we are unable to effectively manage our hiring needs or successfully integrate new hires, our efficiency, ability to meet forecasts and employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely impacted by changes in the Internet and mobile device accessibility of users and unfavorable changes in or our failure to comply with existing or future laws governing the Internet and mobile devices. Our business depends on users access to our platform via a mobile device and the Internet. We may operate in jurisdictions that provide limited Internet connectivity, particularly as we expand internationally. Internet access and access to a mobile device are frequently provided by companies with significant market power that could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of users ability to access our platform. In addition, the Internet infrastructure that we and users of our platform rely on in any particular geographic area may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. Any such failure in Internet or mobile device accessibility, even for a short period of time, could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, we are subject to a number of laws and regulations specifically governing the Internet and mobile devices that are constantly evolving. Existing and future laws and regulations, or changes thereto, may impede the growth and availability of the Internet and online offerings, require us to change our business practices or raise compliance costs or other costs of doing business. These laws and regulations, which continue to evolve, cover taxation, privacy and data protection, pricing, copyrights, distribution, mobile and other communications, advertising practices, consumer protections, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access to our offerings and the characteristics and quality of online offerings, among other things. Any failure, 40 or perceived failure, by us to comply with any of these laws or regulations could result in damage to our reputation and brand a loss in business and proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We rely on mobile operating systems and application marketplaces to make our apps available to the drivers and riders on our platform, and if we do not effectively operate with or receive favorable placements within such application marketplaces and maintain high rider reviews, our usage or brand recognition could decline and our business, financial results and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend in part on mobile operating systems, such as Android and iOS, and their respective application marketplaces to make our apps available to the drivers and riders on our platform. Any changes in such systems and application marketplaces that degrade the functionality of our apps or give preferential treatment to our competitors apps could adversely affect our platforms usage on mobile devices. If such mobile operating systems or application marketplaces limit or prohibit us from making our apps available to drivers and riders, make changes that degrade the functionality of our apps, increase the cost of using our apps, impose terms of use unsatisfactory to us or modify their search or ratings algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors placement in such mobile operating systems application marketplace is more prominent than the placement of our apps, overall growth in our rider or driver base could slow. Our apps have experienced fluctuations in number of downloads in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As new mobile devices and mobile platforms are released, there is no guarantee that certain mobile devices will continue to support our platform or effectively roll out updates to our apps. Additionally, in order to deliver high-quality apps, we need to ensure that our offerings are designed to work effectively with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks and standards. We may not be successful in developing or maintaining relationships with key participants in the mobile industry that enhance drivers and riders experience. If drivers or riders on our platform encounter any difficulty accessing or using our apps on their mobile devices or if we are unable to adapt to changes in popular mobile operating systems, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on the interoperability of our platform across third-party applications and services that we do not control. We have integrations with a variety of productivity, collaboration, travel, data management and security vendors. As our offerings expand and evolve, including to the extent we continue to develop autonomous technology, we may have an increasing number of integrations with other third-party applications, products and services. Third-party applications, products and services are constantly evolving, and we may not be able to maintain or modify our platform to ensure its compatibility with third-party offerings following development changes. In addition, some of our competitors or technology partners may take actions which disrupt the interoperability of our platform with their own products or services, or exert strong business influence on our ability to, and the terms on which we operate and distribute our platform. As our respective products evolve, we expect the types and levels of competition to increase. Should any of our competitors or technology partners modify their products, standards or terms of use in a manner that degrades the functionality or performance of our platform or is otherwise unsatisfactory to us or gives preferential treatment to competitive products or services, our products, platform, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our applications, backend systems or other technology systems and those of third-party technology providers could harm our reputation and brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The software underlying our platform is highly complex and may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities, some of which may only be discovered after the code has been released. We rely heavily on a software engineering practice known as continuous deployment, which refers to the frequent release of our software code, sometimes multiple times per day. This practice increases the risk that errors and vulnerabilities are present in the software code underlying our platform. The third-party software that we incorporate into our platform may also be subject to errors or vulnerability. Any errors or vulnerabilities discovered in our code or from third-party software after release could result in negative publicity, a loss of users or loss of revenue and access or other performance issues. Such vulnerabilities could also be exploited by malicious actors and result in exposure of data of users on our platform, or otherwise result in a data breach as defined under various laws and regulations. We may need to expend significant financial and development resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities. Any failure to timely and effectively resolve any such errors, defects or vulnerabilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as negatively impact our reputation or brand. Our platform contains third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to provide our offerings. Our platform contains software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors 41 generally do not provide support, warranties, indemnification or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. In addition, the public availability of such software may make it easier for others to compromise our platform. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use, or grant other licenses to our intellectual property. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar offerings with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of our competitive advantages. Alternatively, to avoid the public release of the affected portions of our source code, we could be required to expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer some or all of our software. Although we have processes for using open source software to avoid subjecting our platform to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our platform. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their solutions. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our processes for controlling our use of open source software in our platform will be effective. If we are held to have breached or failed to fully comply with all the terms and conditions of an open source software license, we could face infringement or other liability, or be required to seek costly licenses from third parties to continue providing our offerings on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our platform, to discontinue or delay the provision of our offerings if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our presence outside the United States and any future international expansion strategy will subject us to additional costs and risks and our plans may not be successful. We have started expanding our presence internationally. In 2017, we launched our offerings in Canada and we may continue to expand our international offerings. In addition, we have several international offices that support our business. Operating outside of the United States may require significant management attention to oversee operations over a broad geographic area with varying cultural norms and customs, in addition to placing strain on our finance, analytics, compliance, legal, engineering and operations teams. We may incur significant operating expenses and may not be successful in our international expansion for a variety of reasons, including: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; competition from local incumbents that better understand the local market, may market and operate more effectively and may enjoy greater local affinity or awareness; differing demand dynamics, which may make our offerings less successful; public health concerns or emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and other highly communicable diseases or viruses; complying with varying laws and regulatory standards, including with respect to data privacy, tax, trade compliance, and local regulatory restrictions; complying with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions; obtaining any required government approvals, licenses or other authorizations; varying levels of Internet and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; currency exchange restrictions or costs and exchange rate fluctuations; political, economic, or social instability, which has caused disruptions in certain of our office locations, including in Belarus; operating in jurisdictions where we do not have, or that do not protect, intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States; and limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions. Our limited experience in operating our business internationally increases the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful, which may result in shutting down international operations or closing international offices. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our operations internationally and are unable to manage these risks effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 42 In addition, international expansion has increased our risks in complying with the constantly-evolving laws and standards, including with respect to customs, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, export controls and trade and economic sanctions. We cannot assure you that our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of applicable laws, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. In particular, any violation of the applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery, export controls and similar laws could result in adverse media coverage, investigations, imposition of significant legal fees, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions or suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, or substantial diversion of managements attention, all of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Factors Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of laws in the United States and other jurisdictions. Laws, regulations and standards governing issues such as TNCs, ridesharing, worker classification, labor and employment, anti-discrimination, payments, gift cards, whistleblowing and worker confidentiality obligations, product liability, defects, auto maintenance and repairs, personal injury, text messaging, subscription services, intellectual property, consumer protection, taxation, privacy, data security, competition, unionizing and collective action, arbitration agreements and class action waiver provisions, terms of service, mobile application accessibility, autonomous vehicles, bike and scooter sharing, insurance, vehicle rentals, money transmittal, non-emergency medical transportation, healthcare fraud, waste, and abuse, environmental health and safety, background checks, public health, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, import and export restrictions, trade and economic sanctions, foreign ownership and investment, foreign exchange controls and delivery of goods including (but not limited to) medical supplies, perishable foods and prescription drugs are often complex and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state and local administrative agencies. The ridesharing industry and our business model are relatively nascent and rapidly evolving. When we introduced a peer-to-peer ridesharing marketplace in 2012, the laws and regulations in place at the time did not directly address our offerings. Laws and regulations that were in existence at that time, and some that have since been adopted, were often applied to our industry and our business in a manner that limited our relationships with drivers or otherwise inhibited the growth of our ridesharing marketplace. We have been proactively working with federal, state and local governments and regulatory bodies to ensure that our ridesharing marketplace and other offerings are available broadly in the United States and Canada. In part due to our efforts, a large majority of U.S. states have adopted laws related to TNCs to address the unique issues of the ridesharing industry. New laws and regulations and changes to existing laws and regulations continue to be adopted, implemented and interpreted in response to our industry and related technologies. As we expand our business into new markets or introduce new offerings into existing markets, regulatory bodies or courts may claim that we or users on our platform are subject to additional requirements, or that we are prohibited from conducting our business in certain jurisdictions, or that users on our platform are prohibited from using our platform, either generally or with respect to certain offerings. Certain jurisdictions and governmental entities, including airports, require us to obtain permits, pay fees or comply with certain reporting and other compliance requirements to provide our ridesharing, bike and scooter sharing, auto repair and collision services, Flexdrive, Lyft Rentals and autonomous vehicle offerings. These jurisdictions and governmental entities may reject our applications for permits, revoke existing or deny renewals of permits to operate, delay our ability to operate, increase their fees, charge new types of fees, or impose fines and penalties, including as a result of errors in, or failures to comply with, reporting or other requirements related to our product offerings. Any of the foregoing actions by these jurisdictions and governmental entities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent financial, political and other events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on larger companies, technology companies in general and companies engaged in dealings with independent contractors, such as ridesharing and delivery companies. Regulatory bodies may enact new laws or promulgate new regulations that are adverse to our business, or, due to changes in our operations and structure or partner relationships as a result of changes in the market or otherwise, they may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past or in a manner adverse to our business. See the risk factor entitled Challenges to contractor classification of drivers that use our platform may have adverse business, financial, tax, legal and other consequences to our business. Such regulatory scrutiny or action may create different or conflicting obligations from one jurisdiction to another, and may have a negative outcome that could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, we have invested and from time to time we will continue to invest resources in an attempt to influence or challenge legislation and other regulatory matters pertinent to our operations, particularly those related to the ridesharing industry, which may negatively impact the legal and administrative proceedings challenging the classification of drivers on our platform as independent contractors if we are unsuccessful or lead to additional costs and expenses even if we are successful. These activities may not be successful, and any negative outcomes could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is relatively nascent and is rapidly evolving and increasingly regulated. We have been subject to intense regulatory pressure from state and municipal regulatory authorities across the United States and Canada, and a number of them have 43 imposed limitations on or attempted to ban ridesharing and bike and scooter sharing. For example, in December 2018, the New York City Taxi & Limousine Commission adopted rules governing minimum driver earnings calculations and utilization rates applicable to our ridesharing platform, as well as certain other ridesharing platforms. In January 2019, we filed an Article 78 Petition through two of our subsidiaries challenging these rules before the Supreme Court of the State of New York, which was denied in May 2019. In December 2019, we appealed this decision and in December 2020, our appeal was denied. The City of Seattle also adopted the Transportation Network Company Driver Minimum Compensation Ordinance effective January 1, 2021, which sets minimum driver earnings calculations for our rideshare platform as well as other rideshare platforms. Other jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may want to operate could follow suit. We could also face similar regulatory restrictions from foreign regulators as we expand operations internationally, particularly in areas where we face competition from local incumbents. Adverse changes in laws or regulations at all levels of government or bans on or material limitations to our offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success, or perceived success, and increased visibility may also drive some businesses that perceive our business model negatively to raise their concerns to local policymakers and regulators. These businesses and their trade association groups or other organizations may take actions and employ significant resources to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in jurisdictions where we may have, or seek to have, a market presence in an effort to change such legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to adversely affect or impede our business and the ability of drivers and riders to utilize our platform. Any of the foregoing risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Challenges to contractor classification of drivers that use our platform may have adverse business, financial, tax, legal and other consequences to our business. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, administrative actions, government investigations and other legal and regulatory proceedings at the federal, state and municipal levels challenging the classification of drivers on our platform as independent contractors. The tests governing whether a driver is an independent contractor or an employee vary by governing law and are typically highly fact sensitive. Laws and regulations that govern the status and misclassification of independent contractors are subject to changes and divergent interpretations by various authorities which can create uncertainty and unpredictability for us. For example, Assembly Bill 5 (as codified in part at Cal. Labor Code sec. 2750.3) codified and extended an employment classification test in Dynamex Operations West, Inc. v. Superior Court , which established a new standard for determining employee or independent contractor status. The passage of this bill led to additional challenges to the independent contractor classification of drivers using the Lyft Platform. For example, on May 5, 2020, the California Attorney General and the City Attorneys of Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Francisco filed a lawsuit against us and Uber for allegedly misclassifying drivers on the companies respective platforms as independent contractors in violation of Assembly Bill 5 and Californias Unfair Competition Law, and on August 5, 2020, the California Labor Commissioner filed lawsuits against us and Uber for allegedly misclassifying drivers on the companies respective platforms as independent contractors, seeking injunctive relief and material damages and penalties. On June 25, 2020, the California Attorney General and the City Attorneys of Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Francisco filed a motion for preliminary injunction against us and Uber. On August 10, 2020, the court granted the motion for a preliminary injunction, forcing us and Uber to reclassify drivers in California as employees until the end of the lawsuit. On August 12, 2020, we filed a notice of appeal of the court's order and on August 20, 2020, the California Court of Appeal stayed the preliminary injunction pending resolution of the appeal. The Court of Appeal affirmed the preliminary injunction on October 22, 2020. Subsequently, voters in California approved Proposition 22, a state ballot initiative that provides a framework for drivers utilizing platforms like Lyft to maintain their status as independent contractors under California law and Proposition 22 went into effect on December 16, 2020. We filed a petition for rehearing of our appeal with the California Court of Appeal on November 6, 2020, which was denied on November 20, 2020. On December 1, 2020, we filed a petition for review with the California Supreme Court, which was denied on February 10, 2021. The case will now proceed in San Francisco Superior Court. On January 12, 2021, a lawsuit was filed in the California Supreme Court against the State of California alleging that Proposition 22 violates the California Constitution. The Supreme Court denied review on February 3, 2021. Plaintiffs then filed a similar lawsuit in Alameda County Superior Court on February 12, 2021. Separately, on July 14, 2020, the Massachusetts Attorney General filed a lawsuit against us and Uber for allegedly misclassifying drivers on the companies' respective platforms as independent contractors under Massachusetts wage and hour laws, seeking declaratory and injunctive relief. We continue to maintain that drivers on our platform are independent contractors in such legal and administrative proceedings and intend to continue to defend ourself vigorously in these matters, but our arguments may ultimately be unsuccessful. A determination in, or settlement of, any legal proceeding, whether we are party to such legal proceeding or not, that classifies a driver of a ridesharing platform as an employee, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, including as a result of: monetary exposure arising from or relating to failure to withhold and remit taxes, unpaid wages and wage and hour laws and requirements (such as those pertaining to failure to pay minimum wage and overtime, or to provide required breaks and wage statements), expense reimbursement, statutory and punitive damages, penalties, including related to the California Private Attorneys General Act, and government fines; injunctions prohibiting continuance of existing business practices; claims for employee benefits, social security, workers compensation and unemployment; 44 claims of discrimination, harassment and retaliation under civil rights laws; claims under new or existing laws pertaining to unionizing, collective bargaining and other concerted activity; other claims, charges or other proceedings under laws and regulations applicable to employers and employees, including risks relating to allegations of joint employer liability or agency liability; and harm to our reputation and brand. In addition to the harms listed above, a determination in, or settlement of, any legal proceeding that classifies a driver on a ridesharing platform as an employee may require us to significantly alter our existing business model and/or operations (including suspending or ceasing operations in impacted jurisdictions), increase our costs and impact our ability to add qualified drivers to our platform and grow our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have been involved in numerous legal proceedings related to driver classification. We are currently involved in several putative class actions, several representative actions brought, for example, pursuant to Californias Private Attorney General Act, several multi-plaintiff actions and thousands of individual claims, including those brought in arbitration or compelled pursuant to our Terms of Service to arbitration, challenging the classification of drivers on our platform as independent contractors. We are also involved in administrative audits related to driver classification in California, Connecticut, Oregon, Wisconsin, Illinois and New Jersey. See the section titled Legal Proceedings for additional information about these types of legal proceedings. The results of Proposition 22 in California have caused us to alter our operations and incur additional costs and we may face additional challenges as we implement these changes. The recent passage of Proposition 22 in California led us to continue providing flexible earning opportunities to drivers in California. We expect that this transition will require additional costs and we expect to face other challenges as we transition drivers to this new model, including the logistics of providing the additional earning opportunities, as well as potential changes to our pricing. The change in model may also affect our ability to attract and retain drivers and riders. To the extent similar classification models are adopted in other jurisdictions, we may face similar costs and challenges. Notwithstanding the passage of Proposition 22, we continue to face litigation in California, including to overturn Proposition 22, and in other jurisdictions which may in the future require us to classify drivers as employees if we are unsuccessful in our ongoing litigation. Claims by others that we infringed their proprietary technology or other intellectual property rights could harm our business. Companies in the Internet and technology industries are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, certain companies and rights holders seek to enforce and monetize patents or other intellectual property rights they own, have purchased or otherwise obtained. As we gain an increasingly high public profile and the number of competitors in our market increases, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. From time to time third parties may assert, and in the past have asserted, claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. See the section titled Legal Proceedings for additional information about these types of legal proceedings. In addition, third parties have sent us correspondence regarding various allegations of intellectual property infringement and, in some instances, have initiated licensing discussions. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending against these allegations or reaching a business resolution that is satisfactory to us. Our competitors and others may now and in the future have significantly larger and more mature patent portfolios than us. In addition, future litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product or service revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. Many potential litigants, including some of our competitors and patent-holding companies, have the ability to dedicate substantial resources to assert their intellectual property rights. Any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, could distract our management from our business and could require us to cease use of such intellectual property. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, we risk compromising our confidential information during this type of litigation. We may be required to pay substantial damages, royalties or other fees in connection with a claimant securing a judgment against us, we may be subject to an injunction or other restrictions that prevent us from using or distributing our intellectual property, or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing our offerings or a portion thereof, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to seek out a license to continue operations found to be in violation of such rights, which may not be available on favorable or commercially reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If a third-party does not offer us a license to its intellectual property on reasonable terms, or at all, we may be required to develop alternative, non-infringing technology or other intellectual property, which could require significant time (during which we would be unable to continue to offer our affected offerings), effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 45 Failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is dependent in part upon protecting our intellectual property rights and technology (such as code, information, data, processes and other forms of information, knowhow and technology), or intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and may vary by jurisdiction. Even if we do detect violations, we may need to engage in litigation to enforce our rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert management attention. While we take precautions designed to protect our intellectual property, it may still be possible for competitors and other unauthorized third parties to copy our technology and use our proprietary information to create or enhance competing solutions and services, which could adversely affect our position in our rapidly evolving and highly competitive industry. Some license provisions that protect against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our technology may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. The laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property as do the laws of the United States and effective intellectual property protections may not be available or may be limited in foreign countries. Our domestic and international intellectual property protection and enforcement strategy is influenced by many considerations including costs, where we have business operations, where we might have business operations in the future, legal protections available in a specific jurisdiction, and/or other strategic considerations. As such, we do not have identical or analogous intellectual property protection in all jurisdictions, which could risk freedom to operate in certain jurisdictions if we were to expand. As we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of proprietary information will likely increase. We may need to expend additional resources to protect, enforce or defend our intellectual property rights domestically or internationally, which could impair our business or adversely affect our domestic or international operations. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with our third-party providers and strategic partners. We cannot assure you that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to, and use and distribution of, our platform and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our offerings. We also enter into strategic partnerships, joint development and other similar agreements with third parties where intellectual property arising from such partnerships may be jointly-owned or may be transferred or licensed to the counterparty. Such arrangements may limit our ability to protect, maintain, enforce or commercialize such intellectual property rights, including requiring agreement with or payment to our joint development partners before protecting, maintaining, licensing or initiating enforcement of such intellectual property rights, and may allow such joint development partners to register, maintain, enforce or license such intellectual property rights in a manner that may affect the value of the jointly-owned intellectual property or our ability to compete in the market. We may be required to spend significant resources in order to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and some violations may be difficult or impossible to detect. Litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of enhancements to our platform, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our platform or harm our reputation or brand. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new offerings or platform features, which may not be on commercially reasonable terms or at all and could adversely affect our ability to compete. Our industry has also been subject to attempts to steal intellectual property, particularly regarding autonomous vehicle development, including by foreign actors. We, along with others in our industry, have been the target of attempted thefts of our intellectual property and may be subject to such attempts in the future. Although we take measures to protect our property, if we are unable to prevent the theft of our intellectual property or its exploitation, the value of our investments may be undermined and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. Changes in laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection or the protection or transfer of personal data, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations or any other obligations relating to privacy, data protection or the protection or transfer of personal data, could adversely affect our business. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other data relating to the users on our platform. Numerous local, municipal, state, federal and international laws and regulations address privacy, data protection and the collection, storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of certain types of data, including the California Online Privacy Protection Act, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act, Canadas Anti-Spam Law, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, or TCPA, the U.S. Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, Section 5(c) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, and the California Privacy Rights Act, or CPRA, which becomes operative on January 1, 2023. These laws, rules and regulations evolve frequently and their scope may continually change, through new legislation, amendments to 46 existing legislation and changes in enforcement, and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. For example, the CPRA will require new disclosures to California consumers and affords such consumers new data rights and abilities to opt-out of certain sharing of personal information. The CPRA provides for fines of up to $7,500 per violation, which can be applied on a per-consumer basis. Aspects of the CPRA and its interpretation and enforcement remain unclear. The effects of this legislation potentially are far-reaching, however, and may require us to further modify our data processing practices and policies and incur additional compliance-related costs and expenses. The CPRA and other changes in laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection and information security, particularly any new or modified laws or regulations that require enhanced protection of certain types of data or new obligations with regard to data retention, transfer or disclosure, could greatly increase the cost of providing our offerings, require significant changes to our operations or even prevent us from providing certain offerings in jurisdictions in which we currently operate and in which we may operate in the future. Further, as we continue to expand our platform offerings and user base, we may become subject to additional privacy-related laws and regulations. For example, the collection and storage of data in connection with the use of our Concierge platform by healthcare partners subjects us to compliance requirements under HIPAA. HIPAA and its implementing regulations contain requirements regarding the use, collection, security, storage and disclosure of individuals protected health information, or PHI. In 2009, HIPAA was amended by the HITECH Act to impose certain of HIPAAs privacy and security requirements directly upon business associates of covered entities. Contracted healthcare entities including healthcare providers, health plans, and transportation brokers using our Concierge offering are either covered entities or business associates under HIPAA. We must also comply with HIPAA as we use and disclose the PHI of riders in our capacity as a business associate of other contracted healthcare entities. Compliance obligations under HIPAA include privacy, security and breach notification obligations, and could subject us to increased liability for any unauthorized uses or disclosures of PHI determined to be a breach. If we knowingly breach the HITECH Acts requirements, we could be exposed to criminal liability. A breach of our safeguards and processes could expose us to civil penalties that range from $100 - $50,000 per violation, with an annual maximum per violation calendar year cap of $1.5 million for identical incidences and the possibility of civil litigation. Additionally, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant expenses in an effort to comply with privacy, data protection and information security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. In particular, with laws and regulations such as the CCPA and CPRA imposing new and relatively burdensome obligations, and with substantial uncertainty over the interpretation and application of these and other laws and regulations, we may face challenges in addressing their requirements and making necessary changes to our policies and practices, and may incur significant costs and expenses in an effort to do so. In particular, with regard to HIPAA, we may incur increased costs as we perform our obligations to our healthcare customers under our agreements with them. As we consider expansion of business offerings and markets and as laws and regulations change, we expect to incur additional costs related to privacy, data protection and information security standards and protocols imposed by laws, regulations, industry standards or contractual obligations related to such offerings and face additional risks that such expansion could be inconsistent with, or fail or be alleged to fail to meet all requirements of such laws, regulations or obligations. Despite our efforts to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection and information security, it is possible that our practices, offerings or platform could be inconsistent with, or fail or be alleged to fail to meet all requirements of, such laws, regulations or obligations. Our failure, or the failure by our third-party providers or partners, to comply with applicable laws or regulations or any other obligations relating to privacy, data protection or information security, or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access to, or use or release of personally identifiable information or other driver or rider data, or the perception that any of the foregoing types of failure or compromise has occurred, could damage our reputation, discourage new and existing drivers and riders from using our platform or result in fines or proceedings by governmental agencies and private claims and litigation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if not subject to legal challenge, the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and brand and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations and other proceedings that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, government investigations and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including those involving personal injury, property damage, worker classification, labor and employment, anti-discrimination, commercial disputes, competition, consumer complaints, intellectual property disputes, compliance with regulatory requirements, securities laws and other matters, and we may become subject to additional types of claims, lawsuits, government investigations and legal or regulatory proceedings as our business grows and as we deploy new offerings such as autonomous vehicles, Driver Centers and Mobile Services, our network of shared bikes and scooters and deliveries, including proceedings related to product liability or our acquisitions, securities issuances or business practices. We are also regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, government investigations and other legal and regulatory proceedings seeking to hold us liable for the actions of independent contractor drivers on our platform. See the section titled Legal Proceedings for additional information about these types of legal proceedings. 47 The results of any such claims, lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, government investigations or other legal or regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, be harmful to our reputation, require significant management attention and divert significant resources. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex and fact-intensive process that requires significant subjective judgment and speculation. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial damages, settlement costs, fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These proceedings could also result in harm to our reputation and brand, sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions or other orders requiring a change in our business practices. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses on behalf of our business and commercial partners and current and former directors and officers. A determination in, or settlement of, any legal proceeding, whether we are party to such legal proceeding or not, that involves our industry, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a determination that classifies a driver of a ridesharing platform as an employee, whether we are party to such determination or not, could cause us to incur significant expenses or require substantial changes to our business model. In addition, we regularly include arbitration provisions in our Terms of Service with the drivers and riders on our platform. These provisions are intended to streamline the litigation process for all parties involved, as arbitration can in some cases be faster and less costly than litigating disputes in state or federal court. However, arbitration may become more costly for us or the volume of arbitration may increase and become burdensome, and the use of arbitration provisions may subject us to certain risks to our reputation and brand, as these provisions have been the subject of increasing public scrutiny. In order to minimize these risks to our reputation and brand, we may limit our use of arbitration provisions or be required to do so in a legal or regulatory proceeding, either of which could increase our litigation costs and exposure. For example, effective May 2018, we ended mandatory arbitration of sexual misconduct claims by users and employees. Further, with the potential for conflicting rules regarding the scope and enforceability of arbitration on a state-by-state basis, as well as between state and federal law, there is a risk that some or all of our arbitration provisions could be subject to challenge or may need to be revised to exempt certain categories of protection. If our arbitration agreements were found to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, or specific claims are required to be exempted from arbitration, we could experience an increase in our costs to litigate disputes and the time involved in resolving such disputes, and we could face increased exposure to potentially costly lawsuits, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our platform offerings, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations, and any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations or manage the increased costs associated with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we continue to expand our platform offerings and user base, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations, which may differ or conflict from one jurisdiction to another. Many of these laws and regulations were adopted prior to the advent of our industry and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues faced by our industry. For example, the use of our Concierge offering by healthcare contracted entities and transportation brokers with which we partner may subject us to certain healthcare-related laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may impose additional requirements on us and our platform in providing rides to healthcare partners. Additional requirements may arise related to processing of payments, the collection and storage of data and systems infrastructure design, all of which could increase the costs associated with our offerings to healthcare transportation partners. With respect to our healthcare rides provided to Medicaid or Medicare Advantage beneficiaries, we are subject to healthcare fraud, waste and abuse laws that impose penalties for violations. Significant violations of such laws could lead to our loss of provider enrollment status, which could potentially result in exclusion from the federal programs as a provider. Further, we may in certain circumstances be or become considered a government contractor with respect to certain of our services, which would expose us to certain risks such as the governments ability to unilaterally terminate contracts, the public sectors budgetary cycles and funding authorization, and the governments administrative and investigatory processes. Furthermore, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in April 2020 we began piloting a delivery service and rides matched through the Lyft Platform have been deemed an essential service by COVID-19 shelter-in-place orders in numerous jurisdictions, which may subject us to additional laws and regulations, including limits on pricing. Despite our efforts to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other obligations relating to our platform offerings, it is possible that our practices, offerings or platform could be inconsistent with, or fail or be alleged to fail to meet all requirements of, such laws, regulations or obligations. Our failure, or the failure by our third-party providers or partners, to comply with applicable laws or regulations or any other obligations relating to our platform offerings, could harm our reputation and brand, discourage new and existing drivers and riders from using our platform, lead to refunds of rider fares or result in fines or proceedings by governmental agencies or private claims and litigation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 48 We face the risk of litigation resulting from unauthorized text messages sent in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. The actual or perceived improper sending of text messages may subject us to potential risks, including liabilities or claims relating to consumer protection laws. For example, the TCPA restricts telemarketing and the use of automated SMS text messages without proper consent. This has resulted and may in the future result in civil claims against us. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to the delivery of text messages are continuously evolving and developing. If we do not comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could face direct liability and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure