ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in the section titled Note About Forward-Looking Statements, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Our fiscal year ends December 31. Our Business Our mission is to improve peoples lives with the worlds best transportation. Lyft started a movement to revolutionize transportation. In 2012, we launched our peer-to-peer marketplace for on-demand ridesharing and have continued to pioneer innovations aligned with our mission. Today, Lyft is one of the largest multimodal transportation networks in the United States and Canada. We are laser-focused on revolutionizing transportation. We have established a scaled network of users brought together by our robust technology platform (the Lyft Platform) that powers rides and connections every day. We leverage our technology platform, the scale and density of our user network and insights from our significant number of rides to continuously improve our ridesharing marketplace efficiency and develop new offerings. Weve also taken steps to ensure our network is well positioned to benefit from technological innovation in mobility. Today, our offerings include an expanded set of transportation modes in select cities, such as access to a network of shared bikes and scooters for shorter rides and first-mile and last-mile legs of multimodal trips, information about nearby public transit routes, and Lyft Rentals, an offering for users who want to rent a car for a fixed period of time for personal use. We believe our transportation network offers a viable alternative to personal car ownership and use. As we progress through the COVID-19 recovery, we anticipate the demand for our offerings will continue to grow as more and more people discover and rely on the convenience, experience and affordability of using Lyft. We generate substantially all our revenue from our ridesharing marketplace that connects drivers and riders. We collect service fees and commissions from drivers for their use of our ridesharing marketplace. As drivers accept more rider leads and complete more rides, we earn more revenue. We also generate revenue from riders renting Light Vehicles, drivers renting vehicles through Express Drive and Lyft Rentals renters, and by making our ridesharing marketplace available to organizations through our Lyft Business offerings, such as our Concierge and Corporate Business Travel programs. We have made focused and substantial investments in support of our mission. For example, to continually launch new innovations on our platform, we have invested heavily in research and development and have completed multiple strategic acquisitions. We have also invested in sales and marketing to grow our community, cultivate a differentiated brand that resonates with drivers and riders and promote further brand awareness. Together, these investments have enabled us to create a powerful multimodal platform and scaled user network that has resulted in the rapid growth of our business. Notwithstanding the impact of COVID-19, we are continuing to invest in the future, both organically and through acquisitions of complementary businesses. We also continue to invest in the expansion of our network of shared bikes and scooters and autonomous vehicle technology. Our strategy is to always be at the forefront of transportation innovation, and we believe that through these investments we will continue to be well positioned as a leader in Transportation-as-a-Service. Even as we invest in the business, we also remain focused on finding ways to operate more efficiently. Our values, brand and focus on customer experience are key differentiators for our business. We continue to believe that users are increasingly choosing services, including a ridesharing platform, based on brand affinity and value alignment. We remain confident that demand will continue to return to our platform as we progress through the COVID-19 recovery and longer-term. Impact of COVID-19 to our Business The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic continues to weigh on communities in the United States, Canada and globally. Since the pandemic began in March 2020, governments - at the recommendation of public health officials - have enacted precautions to mitigate the spread of the virus, including travel restrictions and extensive social distancing measures in many regions of the United States and Canada. Beginning in the middle of March 2020, the pandemic and these related responses caused decreased demand for our platform leading to decreased revenues as well as decreased earning opportunities for drivers on our platform. Our business continues to be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 34 Table of Contents Although demand continues to improve and we begin to see positive trends compared to the demand levels at the start of the pandemic, it remains significantly below the levels of demand prior to the pandemic. The exact timing and pace of the recovery remain uncertain. The extent to which our operations will continue to be impacted by the pandemic will depend largely on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the pandemic and actions by government authorities and private businesses to contain the pandemic or recover from its impact, among other things. Even as travel restrictions and shelter-in-place orders have been and will continue to be modified or lifted, we anticipate that continued social distancing, altered consumer behavior, reduced travel and commuting, and expected corporate cost cutting will be significant challenges for us. The strength and duration of these challenges cannot be presently estimated. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have adopted multiple measures, including pausing our shared rides offerings, distributing thousands of bottles of hand sanitizer, masks and partitions to drivers on our platform, requiring face coverings in all rideshare trips, providing many employees with the option to work from home until September 2021 and restricting non-critical business travel by our employees. We also made adjustments to our expenses and cash flow to correlate with declines in revenues including headcount reductions, furlough of employees and the implementation of temporary salary reductions. We've built a much stronger business over the last year and we are confident in our ability to continue to navigate this challenging period. We remain focused on our long-term growth opportunities in addition to our business model, including our ability to reach Adjusted EBITDA profitability in the third quarter of 2021 assuming (i) COVID-19 economic recovery continues and (ii) the transaction involving the sale of our Level 5 self-driving vehicle division closes within the expected timeframe. With $2.2 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments as of March 31, 2021, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to continue business operations and to take action we determine to be in the best interests of our employees. stockholders, stakeholders and of drivers and riders on the Lyft Platform. For more information on risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and our litigation matters, see the section titled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II. Recent Developments Transaction with Woven Planet Holdings, Inc. (Woven Planet) On April 26, 2021, we signed a definitive agreement with Woven Planet, a subsidiary of Toyota Motor Corporation, for divestiture of certain assets related to our self-driving vehicle division, Level 5, as well as non-exclusive commercial agreements for the utilization of Lyft system and fleet data to accelerate the safety and commercialization of the automated-driving vehicles that Woven Planet will develop. We will receive, in total, approximately $550 million in cash with this transaction, with $200 million paid upfront subject to certain closing adjustments and $350 million of payments over a five-year period. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2021, subject to the receipt of required regulatory approvals and customary and other closing conditions. This transaction will reduce our costs related to Level 5 and also provide a new way to monetize the data collected as a result of our platform. Reinsurance of Certain Legacy Auto Liability Insurance On April 22, 2021, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Pacific Valley Insurance Company, Inc. (PVIC), entered into a Quota Share Reinsurance Agreement (the Reinsurance Agreement) with DARAG Bermuda LTD (DARAG), under which DARAG reinsured a legacy portfolio of auto insurance policies, based on reserves in place as of March 31, 2021, for $183.2 million of coverage above the liabilities recorded as of that date. Under the terms of the Reinsurance Agreement, PVIC ceded to DARAG approximately $251.3 million of certain legacy insurance liabilities for policies underwritten during the period of October 1, 2018 to October 1, 2020, with an aggregate limit of $434.5 million, for a premium of $271.5 million. The Reinsurance Agreement arrangement does not discharge PVIC of its obligations to the policyholder. A loss of approximately $20.2 million for the net costs of the Reinsurance Agreement will be recognized during the second quarter of 2021. 35 Table of Contents Financial Results for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Total revenue was $609.0 million, a decrease of 36% year-over-year. Total costs and expenses were $1.0 billion, including stock-based compensation expense of $164.2 million. Loss from operations was $416.4 million. Net loss was $427.3 million. Cash used in operating activities was $79.5 million. Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $2.2 billion as of March 31, 2021. Active Riders and Revenue per Active Rider Active Riders Revenue per Active Rider 2021 2020 Growth Rate 2021 2020 Growth Rate (in thousands, except for dollar amounts and percentages) Three Months Ended March 31 13,494 21,211 (36.4)% $45.13 $45.06 0.2% Three Months Ended June 30 8,688 $39.06 Three Months Ended September 30 12,513 $39.94 Three Months Ended December 31 12,552 $45.40 We define Active Riders as all riders who take at least one ride during a quarter where the Lyft Platform processes the transaction. An Active Rider is identified by a unique phone number. If a rider has two mobile phone numbers or changed their phone number and such rider took rides using both phone numbers during the quarter, that person would count as two Active Riders. If a rider has a personal and business profile tied to the same mobile phone number, that person would be considered a single Active Rider. If a ride has been requested by an organization using our Concierge offering for the benefit of a rider, we exclude this rider in the calculation of Active Riders unless the ride is accessible in the Lyft App. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020, some riders were able to access their Concierge rides in the Lyft App if they already had a Lyft account. Accordingly, Lyft updated the definition of Active Riders to include Concierge riders if the riders phone number matches that of a verified Lyft account, allowing the rider to access their ride in the Lyft App. This update resulted in a 0.01% increase, or an additional 927 Active Riders in the fourth quarter of 2020. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2020, all Concierge riders were excluded from the calculation of Active Riders as Concierge rides could not be matched with verified rider accounts. The decrease in the number of Active Riders in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 was due primarily to the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on people's mobility. This includes continued remote work arrangements and social distancing measures still in effect across North America. The number of Active Riders in the three months ended March 31, 2021 improved compared to the three months ended December 31, 2020 following the easing of travel restrictions and social distancing measures in certain regions. However, local recovery trends continue to vary significantly. The slight increase in Revenue per Active Rider in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 reflects elevated pricing in the first quarter of 2021 as rider demand outpaced driver supply. This was offset by increases to driver incentives to increase driver availability and reduced ride frequency given a return of riders from prior quarters as well as new rider activations, especially in March. Driver incentives are recorded as a reduction to revenue and Active Rider additions near the end of any quarter have less time to take rides and contribute to revenue. Revenue per Active Rider slightly decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2020 primarily caused by a decrease in demand for bikes and scooters due to seasonal factors. This was partially offset by the rideshare dynamic caused by rider demand outpacing driver supply in the first quarter of 2021 noted above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results 36 Table of Contents could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as described below. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this report. Components of Results of Operations As noted above, we expect to see decreased levels of demand for our platform, decreased numbers of new rider activations, and negative impacts on revenue for so long as responsive measures to COVID-19 remain in place, and we have adopted multiple measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot be certain that these actions will mitigate some or all of the negative effects of the pandemic on our business. In light of the evolving and unpredictable effects of COVID-19, we are not currently in a position to forecast the expected impact of COVID-19 on our financial and operating results for the remainder of 2021. Revenue Recognition Revenue consists of revenue recognized from fees paid by drivers for use of our Lyft Platform offerings, Concierge platform fees from organizations that use our Concierge offering, and subscription fees paid by riders to access transportation options through the Lyft Platform. Revenue derived from these offerings are recognized in accordance with ASC 606 as described in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above and in Note 2 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Revenue also consists of rental revenues recognized through leases or subleases primarily from Flexdrive, Lyft Rentals, and our network of Light Vehicles, which includes revenue generated from single-use ride fees paid by riders of Light Vehicles. Revenue derived from these offerings are recognized in accordance with ASC 842 as described in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above and in Note 2 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We offer various incentive programs to drivers that are recorded as reduction to revenue if we do not receive a distinct good or service in consideration or if we cannot reasonably estimate the fair value of goods or services received. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of costs directly related to revenue generating transactions through our multimodal platform which primarily includes insurance costs, payment processing charges, and other costs. Insurance costs consist of insurance generally required under TNC and city regulations for ridesharing and bike and scooter rentals and also includes occupational hazard insurance for drivers in California. Payment processing charges include merchant fees, chargebacks and failed charges. Other costs included in cost of revenue are hosting and platform-related technology costs, vehicle lease expenses, personnel-related compensation costs, depreciation, amortization of technology-related intangible assets, asset write-off charges, and remarketing gains and losses related to the sale of vehicles. Operations and Support Operations and support expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation costs of local operations teams and teams who provide phone, email and chat support to users, bike and scooter fleet operations support costs, driver background checks and onboarding costs, fees paid to third-parties providing operations support, facility costs and certain car rental fleet support costs. Bike and scooter fleet operations support costs include general repairs and maintenance, and other customer support activities related to repositioning bikes and scooters for rider convenience, cleaning and safety checks. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation costs and facilities costs. Such expenses include costs related to our autonomous vehicle technology initiatives. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of rider incentives, personnel-related compensation costs, driver incentives for referring new drivers or riders, advertising expenses, rider refunds and marketing partnerships with third parties. Sales and marketing costs are expensed as incurred. 37 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation costs, professional services fees, certain insurance costs that are generally not required under TNC regulations, certain loss contingency expenses including legal accruals and settlements, insurance claims administrative fees, policy spend, depreciation, facility costs and other corporate costs. General and administrative expenses are expensed as incurred. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest incurred on our 2025 Notes, as well as the related amortization of deferred debt issuance costs and debt discount. Interest expense also includes interest incurred on our Non-Revolving Loan and our Master Vehicle Loan. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, and restricted and unrestricted short-term investments. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in foreign jurisdictions and U.S. state income taxes. As we expand the scale of our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. and foreign taxation of such activities may increase our overall provision for income taxes in the future. We have a valuation allowance for our U.S. deferred tax assets, including federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized by way of expected future taxable income in the United States. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical condensed consolidated statements of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Revenue $ 608,960 $ 955,712 Costs and expenses Cost of revenue 412,039 542,419 Operations and support 88,931 133,782 Research and development 238,218 258,739 Sales and marketing 78,620 196,437 General and administrative 207,594 238,440 Total costs and expenses 1,025,402 1,369,817 Loss from operations (416,442) (414,105) Interest expense (12,568) (1,507) Other income, net 3,605 19,169 Loss before income taxes (425,405) (396,443) Provision for income taxes 1,934 1,630 Net loss $ (427,339) $ (398,073) 38 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses Cost of revenue 67.7 56.8 Operations and support 14.6 14.0 Research and development 39.1 27.1 Sales and marketing 12.9 20.6 General and administrative 34.1 24.9 Total costs and expenses 168.4 143.3 Loss from operations (68.4) (43.3) Interest expense (2.1) (0.2) Other income, net 0.6 2.0 Loss before income taxes (69.9) (41.5) Provision for income taxes 0.3 0.2 Net loss (70.2) % (41.7) % Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2021 to the three months ended March 31, 2020 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Revenue $ 608,960 $ 955,712 (36) % Revenue decreased $346.8 million, or 36%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, which was driven primarily by a 36% decrease in the number of Active Riders in the first quarter of 2021 as compared to the first quarter of 2020 due to the continued impact of restrictive measures still in effect across North America in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue per Active Rider slightly increased in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. In the first quarter of 2021, Revenue per Active Rider benefited from elevated pricing as rider demand outpaced driver supply. This benefit to Revenue per Active Rider was offset by (i) an increase to driver incentives in the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 to increase driver availability and (ii) a decline in ride frequency during the COVID-19 pandemic. Driver incentives are recorded as a reduction to revenue. We expect to see continued suppression of demand for our platform and the resulting negative impacts on revenue for so long as the travel restrictions, extensive social distancing measures and other restrictive measures in response to COVID-19 remain in place and we cannot predict consumer behavior at such time. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Cost of revenue $ 412,039 $ 542,419 (24) % Cost of revenue decreased $130.4 million, or 24%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease of $131.0 million in insurance costs driven by (i) the negative impact on ride volume due to the COVID-19 pandemic and (ii) $62.5 million of costs related to the transfer of certain legacy auto insurance liabilities from the first quarter of 2020. The decrease in insurance costs was partially offset by an increase of $69.7 million in changes to the liabilities for insurance required by regulatory agencies attributable to historical periods driven by continued unfavorable historical claims experiences due in part to the COVID-19 pandemic. The lower ride volume due to the COVID-19 pandemic also resulted in decreases in transaction fees and web hosting fees to support our platform, which decreased $33.5 million and $16.4 million, respectively. Bike and scooter related costs also decreased $4.0 million as a result of a reduction in asset disposals and a reduction in depreciation expenses due to lower capital expenditures in response to the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. 39 Table of Contents Operations and Support Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Operations and support $ 88,931 $ 133,782 (34) % Operations and support expenses decreased $44.9 million, or 34%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction of $19.3 million in driver onboarding costs and rider and driver support costs as well as a reduction of $4.5 million in facilities costs as a result of the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Personnel-related costs decreased $11.8 million primarily as a result of the restructuring events in the second and fourth quarters of 2020. In addition, costs related to Flexdrive decreased $4.8 million. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Research and development $ 238,218 $ 258,739 (8) % Research and development expenses decreased $20.5 million, or 8%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily due to a $11.8 million decrease in personnel-related costs as a result of the restructuring event in the second quarter of 2020. Consultant and advisory costs also decreased $5.3 million. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Sales and marketing $ 78,620 $ 196,437 (60) % Sales and marketing expenses decreased $117.8 million, or 60%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily due to an $87.0 million decrease in costs related to incentive programs driven primarily by a reduction in rider incentives. There was also a reduction of $6.1 million in personnel-related costs as a result of the restructuring event in the second quarter of 2020. In addition, there was a decrease of $6.0 million in rider reward payments related to our marketing partnerships and $4.7 million in costs associated with driver and rider acquisition. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) General and administrative $ 207,594 $ 238,440 (13) % General and administrative expenses decreased $30.8 million, or 13%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease was due primarily to a $12.1 million decrease in consultant and advisory costs, a $9.6 million decrease in the accrual for self-retained general business liabilities, a $6.8 million decrease in driver support costs, and a decrease of $5.1 million in bad debt expense. There was a reduction of $4.8 million in office-related costs, $4.6 million in personnel-related costs, and $4.6 million in other employee-related expenses primarily as a result of the restructuring events in the second and fourth quarters of 2020 and our work from home option for many employees beginning in the middle of March 2020. This was partially offset by an increase of $24.7 million in certain loss contingencies including legal accruals and settlements. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Interest expense $ (12,568) $ (1,507) 734 % 40 Table of Contents Interest expense increased $11.1 million, or 734%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. Interest expense relates to the issuance of our 2025 Notes in May 2020 and the vehicle related debt assumed from the acquisition of Flexdrive in February 2020. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) Other income, net $ 3,605 $ 19,169 (81) % Other income (expense), net decreased $15.6 million, or 81%, in the three months ended March 31, 2021 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in interest income driven by a decline in interest rates and the yield on debt securities and a decrease in our cash equivalents and short-term investments balance. 41 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (in millions, except for percentages) Contribution (1) $ 337.3 $ 547.4 (38.4) % Contribution Margin (1) 55.4 % 57.3 % Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ (73.0) $ (85.2) 14.3 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin (1) (12.0) % (8.9) % _______________ (1) Contribution, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are non-GAAP financial measures and metrics. For more information regarding our use of these measures and a reconciliation of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Contribution and Contribution Margin Contribution and Contribution Margin are measures used by our management to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends. We believe Contribution and Contribution Margin are key measures of our ability to achieve profitability and increase it over time. Contribution Margin has generally increased over the periods presented as revenue has increased at a faster rate than the costs included in the calculation of Contribution. We define Contribution as revenue less cost of revenue, adjusted to exclude the following items from cost of revenue: amortization of intangible assets; stock-based compensation expense; payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation; changes to the liabilities for insurance required by regulatory agencies attributable to historical periods; transfer of certain legacy auto insurance liabilities; and restructuring charges, if any. For more information about cost of revenue, see the section titled Components of Results of OperationsCost of Revenue. Contribution Margin is calculated by dividing Contribution for a period by revenue for the same period. We record historical changes to liabilities for insurance required by regulatory agencies for financial reporting purposes in the quarter of positive or adverse development even though such development may be related to claims that occurred in prior periods. For example, if in the first quarter of a given year, the cost of claims grew by $1 million for claims related to the prior fiscal year or earlier, the expense would be recorded for GAAP purposes within the first quarter instead of in the results of the prior period. We believe these prior period changes to insurance liabilities do not illustrate the current period performance of our ongoing operations since these prior period changes relate to claims that could potentially date back years. We have limited ability to influence the ultimate development of historical claims. Accordingly, including the prior period changes would not illustrate the performance of our ongoing operations or how the business is run or managed by us. For consistency, we do not adjust the calculation of Contribution for any prior period based on any positive or adverse development that occurs subsequent to the quarter end. Annual Contribution is calculated by adding Contribution of the last four quarters. We believe the adjustment to exclude the historical changes to liabilities for insurance required by regulatory agencies from Contribution and Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors by enabling them to better assess our operating performance in the context of current period results. During the first quarter of 2020, we entered into a Novation Agreement for the transfer of certain legacy auto insurance liabilities between October 1, 2015 and September 30, 2018. Refer to Note 4 Supplemental Financial Statement Information to the condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction. We believe the costs associated with the transfer of these legacy auto insurance liabilities do not illustrate the current period performance of our ongoing operations despite this transaction occurring in the current period because the transferred insurance liabilities relate to claims that date back years. We believe the adjustment to exclude these costs related to the transfer of legacy insurance liabilities from Contribution and Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors by enabling them to better assess our operating performance in the context of current period results and provide for better comparability with our historically disclosed Contribution and Adjusted EBITDA amounts. 42 Table of Contents We had restructuring efforts in the second and fourth quarters of 2020 to reduce operating expenses and adjust cash flows in light of the ongoing economic challenges resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business. We believe the costs associated with the restructuring do not reflect current period performance of our ongoing operations. We believe the adjustment to exclude the costs related to restructuring from Contribution and Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors by enabling them to better assess our operating performance in the context of current period results and provide for better comparability with our historically disclosed Contribution and Adjusted EBITDA amounts. For more information regarding the limitations of Contribution and Contribution Margin and a reconciliation of revenue to Contribution, see the section titled Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are key performance measures that our management uses to assess our operating performance and the operating leverage in our business. Because Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin facilitate internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis, we use these measures for business planning purposes. We expect Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin will increase over the long term as we continue to scale our business and achieve greater efficiencies in our operating expenses. We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss, adjusted to exclude: interest expense; other income (expense), net; provision for (benefit from) income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation expense; payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation; changes to the liabilities for insurance required by regulatory agencies attributable to historical periods; costs related to acquisitions, if any; transfer of the certain legacy auto insurance liability; and restructuring charges, if any. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA for a period by revenue for the same period. For more information regarding the limitations of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin and a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA, see the section titled Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use Contribution, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in conjunction with GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance. Our definitions may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Furthermore, these measures have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations that are necessary to run our business. Thus, our Contribution, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by providing a reconciliation of Contribution and Adjusted EBITDA to the related GAAP financial measures, revenue and net loss, respectively. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure and to view Contribution, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in conjunction with their respective related GAAP financial measures. The following table provides a reconciliation of revenue to Contribution (in millions): 43 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Revenue $ 609.0 $ 955.7 Less cost of revenue (412.0) (542.4) Adjusted to exclude the following (as related to cost of revenue): Amortization of intangible assets 2.8 2.8 Stock-based compensation expense 8.4 9.7 Payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation 1.1 0.7 Changes to the liabilities for insurance required by regulatory agencies attributable to historical periods (1) 128.0 58.4 Transfer of certain legacy auto insurance liabilities (2) 62.5 Contribution $ 337.3 $ 547.4 _______________ (1) $128.0 million of insurance expense recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2021 reflects changes to reserves estimates of claims from 2020 and earlier periods. $58.4 million of insurance expense recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2020 reflects changes to reserves estimates of claims from 2019 and earlier periods. (2) The total impact of the transfer of certain legacy auto insurance liabilities on our condensed consolidated statement of operations was $64.7 million, with $62.5 million in cost of revenue and $2.2 million in general and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA (in millions): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net loss $ (427.3) $ (398.1) Adjusted to exclude the following: Interest expense (1) 12.9 1.5 Other income, net (2) (3.6) (19.1) Provision for income taxes 1.9 1.6 Depreciation and amortization 34.4 35.5 Stock-based compensation expense 164.2 160.0 Payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation 16.5 9.9 Changes to the liabilities for insurance required by regulatory agencies attributable to historical periods (3) 128.0 58.4 Costs related to acquisitions 0.4 Transfer of certain legacy auto insurance liabilities (4) 64.7 Adjusted EBITDA $ (73.0) $ (85.2) _______________ (1) Includes interest expense for Flexdrive vehicles and the 2025 Notes and $0.3 million related to the interest component of vehicle related finance leases. Refer to Note 6 Leases to the condensed consolidated financial statements for information regarding the interest component of vehicle related finance leases. (2) Includes interest income which was reported as a separate line item on the condensed consolidated statement of operations in periods prior to the second quarter of 2020. (3) $128.0 million of insurance expense recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2021 reflects changes to reserves estimates of claims from 2020 and earlier periods. $58.4 million of insurance expense recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2020 reflects changes to reserves estimates of claims from 2019 and earlier periods. (4) The total impact of the transfer of certain legacy auto insurance liabilities on our condensed consolidated statement of operations was $64.7 million, with $62.5 million in cost of revenue and $2.2 million in general and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of approximately $312.2 million and short-term investments of approximately $1.9 billion, exclusive of restricted cash, cash equivalents and investments of $1.1 billion. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of institutional money market funds, certificates of deposits, commercial paper and corporate bonds that have an original maturity of less than three months and are readily convertible into known amounts of cash. Also included in cash and cash equivalents are certain money market deposit accounts and cash in transit from 44 Table of Contents payment processors for credit and debit card transactions. Short-term investments consisted of commercial paper, certificates of deposit, corporate bonds and term deposits, which mature in 12 months or less. Restricted cash, cash equivalents and investments consisted primarily of amounts held in separate trust accounts and restricted bank accounts as collateral for insurance purposes and amounts pledged to secure certain letters of credit. We collect the fare and related charges from riders on behalf of drivers at the time the ride is delivered using the riders authorized payment method, and we retain any fees owed to us before making the remaining disbursement to drivers. Accordingly, we maintain no accounts receivable from drivers. Our contracts with insurance providers require reinsurance premiums to be deposited into trust accounts with a third-party financial institution from which the insurance providers are reimbursed for claims payments. Our restricted reinsurance trust investments as of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 were $940.4 million and $1.1 billion, respectively. We continue to actively monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning in March 2020, the pandemic and responses thereto contributed to a severe decrease in the number of rides on our platform and revenue which had a significant effect on our cash flows from operations. These impacts are ongoing and have continued into 2021. The extent to which our operations, financial results and financial condition will be impacted in the next few quarters by the pandemic will depend largely on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the pandemic, actions by government authorities and private businesses to contain the pandemic or recover from its impact, and the availability and distribution of the vaccine, among other things. We have adopted several measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including pausing our shared ride offerings, distributing thousands of bottles of hand sanitizer, masks and partitions to drivers on our platform, providing many employees with the option to work from home until September 2021, and restricting non-critical business travel by our employees. We also made adjustments to our expenses and cash flow to correlate with declines in revenues including headcount reductions, furlough of employees and the implementation of temporary salary reductions. We cannot be certain that our actions will mitigate some or all of the negative effects of the pandemic on our business. With nearly $2.2 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments as of March 31, 2021, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital and capital expenditures needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to our growth, our ability to attract and retain drivers and riders on our platform, the continuing market acceptance of our offerings, the timing and extent of spending to support our efforts to develop our platform, actual insurance payments for which we have made reserves, measures we take in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, our ability to maintain demand for and confidence in the safety of our platform during and following the COVID-19 pandemic, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. As noted above, we expect to see continued suppression of demand for our platform and the resultant negative impacts on revenue for so long as the travel restrictions and other social distancing measures in response to COVID-19 remain in place. Further, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in businesses, products, services and technologies. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to fund capital expenditures, strategic initiatives or investments and our ongoing operations, or to refinance our existing or future indebtedness. In the event that we decide, or are required, to seek additional financing from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net cash used in operating activities $ (79,464) $ (206,926) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 161,123 787,667 Net cash provided by financing activities (24,286) (16,644) Effect of foreign exchange on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents 34 (120) Net change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents $ 57,407 $ 563,977 Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities was $79.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This consisted primarily of a net loss of $427.3 million offset by non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $164.2 million. Cash used in operating activities was $206.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. This consisted primarily of a net loss of $398.1 million offset by non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $160.0 million. 45 Table of Contents Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $161.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, which primarily consisted of proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities of $1.2 billion, partially offset by purchases of marketable securities of $1.0 billion and term deposits of $75.0 million. Cash provided by investing activities was $787.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which primarily consisted of proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities of $2.1 billion, partially offset by purchases of marketable securities of $1.2 billion and a term deposit of $75.0 million. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $24.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, which primarily consisted of our repayment of loans of $10.0 million, taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards of $7.7 million and principal payments of finance lease obligations of $9.9 million. Cash used in financing activities was $16.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which primarily consisted of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards of $6.8 million and principal payments of finance lease obligations of $6.2 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2021, there have been no material changes from the contractual obligations and commitments previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.