ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2014 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on December 9, 2014. In this document, the words Company, we, our, us, and similar terms refer only to M/A-COM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, and not any other person or entity. M/A-COM and MACOM are trademarks of M/A-COM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc. All other brands and names listed are trademarks of their respective owners Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, we may make other written and oral communications from time to time that contain such statements. Forward-looking statements include statements as to industry trends and our future expectations and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, estimate, or continue, and similar expressions or variations. These statements are based on managements beliefs and assumptions as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, based on information currently available to us. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include, among others, the risks described herein in Part II. Item 1A, Risk Factors and in the section entitled Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2014 as filed with the SEC on December 9, 2014. We caution the reader to carefully consider such factors. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We are a leading supplier of high-performance analog RF, microwave, millimeterwave and photonic semiconductor products that enable next-generation internet and modern battlefield applications. We design and manufacture differentiated, high-value products for customers who demand high-performance, quality and reliability. We offer a broad portfolio of over 3,500 standard and custom devices, which include integrated circuits (IC), multi-chip modules, power pallets and transistors, diodes, switches and switch limiters, passive and active components, Indium Phosphide (InP) high-performance laser semiconductors and complete subsystems, across 43 product lines serving over 6,000 end customers in four primary markets. Our semiconductor products are electronic components that our customers incorporate into their larger electronic systems, such as point-to-point wireless backhaul radios, optical networking equipment, high density data networks, radar, automobile navigation systems, magnetic resonance imaging systems and unmanned aerial vehicles. Our primary markets are: Networks, which includes wired broadband, cellular backhaul, cellular infrastructure, enterprise networking, broadcast video transmission and optical communications applications; Aerospace and Defense (A&D), which includes military and commercial radar, RF jammers, electronic countermeasures and communication data links; Automotive, which includes global positioning (GPS) modules we sell to Ford and Ford affiliates; and Multi-market, which includes industrial, medical, test and scientific applications. On December 15, 2014, we completed the acquisition of BinOptics Corporation (BinOptics) (BinOptics Acquisition), a supplier of high-performance photonic products, pursuant to which, BinOptics became our wholly-owned subsidiary. We believe BinOptics aligns with our core growth strategy in our Networks market, and that it has a high performance laser 23 Table of Contents semiconductor business model that is consistent with our target model for higher margin products with long product lifecycles. Further, we believe that BinOptics complements our existing business with an established footprint and customer relationships in the Asia-Pacific region and expands our addressable market for InP high-performance laser products and technology for use in optical networks. The operations of BinOptics are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. On December 18, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Mindspeed Technologies, Inc. (Mindspeed) (Mindspeed Acquisition), a supplier of high performance analog products previously headquartered in Southern California. We believe Mindspeed aligns with our core growth strategy in networking and optical markets, has a high-performance analog business model that is consistent with our target model for higher margin products with long product lifecycles and long-standing customer relationships, complements our existing business with an established footprint in the Asia-Pacific markets and expands our addressable market for silicon-germanium (SiGe) products and technology. The operations of Mindspeed have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Subsequent to closing the Mindspeed Acquisition, in February 2014, we divested the wireless business of Mindspeed. The operations of the wireless business are included in discontinued operations. On May 9, 2014, Mindspeed completed the sale of its CPE communication processor product line for $12.0 million and a potential additional $2.0 million based upon the achievement of certain revenue-related milestones through December 31, 2014. On February 13, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Nitronex, LLC (Nitronex) (the Nitronex Acquisition). Nitronex designs, develops, manufactures and markets gallium nitride (GaN) semiconductors and is headquartered in the Raleigh, North Carolina area. We completed the Nitronex Acquisition through a cash payment of $26.1 million for all of the outstanding membership interests of Nitronex. We funded the Nitronex Acquisition through the use of available cash and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Because we and Nitronex were controlled by the same majority owner since June 25, 2012, we present combined financial statements in a manner similar to a pooling-of-interests for all periods since June 25, 2012, the earliest date of common control. Accordingly, our historical financial statements have been retroactively combined as if Nitronex was acquired on June 25, 2012. All periods from June 25, 2012, have been combined using historical amounts of each entity. Since February 13, 2014, the results of Nitronex are included on a consolidated basis. We have one reportable operating segment, semiconductors and modules. We have a 52 or 53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to September 30. The three months ended January 2, 2015, includes 13 weeks and fiscal year 2015 will include 52 weeks. The three months ended January 3, 2014, included 13 weeks and fiscal year 2014 included 53 weeks. To offset the effect of holidays, we include the extra week arising in our fiscal years in the first quarter, the effect of which was not material to the three months ended January 2, 2015. Description of Our Revenue, Cost of Revenue and Expenses Revenue. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from sales of high-performance analog RF, microwave, millimeterwave and photonic semiconductor products that enable next-generation internet, modern battlefield and other applications. We design, integrate, manufacture and package differentiated product solutions that we sell to customers through our direct sales organization, our network of independent sales representatives and our distributors. We believe the primary drivers of our future revenue growth will include: engaging early with our lead customers to develop products and solutions that can be driven across multiple growth markets; 24 Table of Contents leveraging our core strength and leadership position in standard, catalog products that service all of our end applications; increasing content of our semiconductor solutions in our customers systems through cross-selling of our more than 43 product lines; introducing new products through internal development and acquisitions with market reception that command higher prices based on the application of advanced technologies such as GaN, added features, higher levels of integration and improved performance; and realizing growth in the market for high-performance analog semiconductors generally, and in our four primary markets in particular. Our core strategy is to develop innovative, high-performance products that address our customers most difficult technical challenges in our primary markets: Networks, A&D, Automotive and Multi-market. While sales in any or all of our primary markets may slow or decline from period to period, over the long-term we generally expect to benefit from strength in these markets. We expect our revenue in the Networks market to be primarily driven by continued upgrades and expansion of communications equipment to support expansion in the Internet of Things (IoT), driven by the proliferation of mobile computing devices such as smartphones and tablets, coupled with bandwidth rich services such as video on demand and cloud computing, as well as demand for higher bandwidth wired and wireless services, the rapid adoption of cloud-based services and the migration to an application centric architecture, which we expect will drive faster adoption of higher speed, low latency optical and wireless links. We expect revenue in A&D to be driven by major programs of record for both commercial and military radar platforms. We expect our revenue in the Automotive market to be subject to fluctuations in our largest customers market share and overall macroeconomic conditions. We expect revenue in Multi-market to be driven by diverse demand for our multi-purpose catalog products. Cost of revenue . Cost of revenue primarily consists of the cost of semiconductor wafers and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, and the cost of assembly and testing of our products, whether performed by our internal manufacturing personnel or outsourced vendors. Cost of revenue also includes costs associated with personnel engaged in our manufacturing operations, such as wages and share-based compensation expense, as well as costs and overhead related to our manufacturing operations, including lease occupancy and utility expense related to our manufacturing operations, depreciation, production computer services and equipment costs and the cost of our manufacturing quality assurance and supply chain activities. Further, cost of revenue includes the impact of warranty and inventory adjustments, including write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory and for fair market value adjustments related to the accounting for acquisitions, as well as amortization of intangible assets related to acquired technology. Our gross margin in any period is significantly affected by industry demand and competitive factors in the markets into which we sell our products. Gross margin is also significantly affected by our product mix, that is, the percentage of our revenue in that period that is attributable to relatively higher or lower-margin products. Additional factors affecting our gross margin include fluctuations in the cost of wafers and materials, including precious metals, utilization of our wafer fabrication operation, level of usage of outsourced manufacturing, assembly and test services, changes in our manufacturing yields, changes in foreign currencies and numerous other factors, some of which are not under our control. As a result of these or other factors, we may be unable to maintain or increase our gross margin in future periods, and our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period. Research and development. R&D expense consists primarily of costs relating to our employees engaged in the design and development of our products and technologies, including wages and share-based compensation. R&D expense also includes costs for consultants, facilities, services related to supporting computer design tools used in the engineering and design process, 25 Table of Contents prototype development and project materials. We expense all research and development costs as incurred. We expect to maintain or increase the dollar amount of R&D investment in future periods as we continue to invest in new product development, although amounts may increase or decrease in any individual quarter. Selling, general and administrative . SG&A expense consists primarily of costs of our management, sales and marketing, finance, human resources and administrative organizations, including wages and share-based compensation. SG&A expense also includes costs associated with being a public company, professional fees, sales commissions paid to independent sales representatives, costs of advertising, trade shows, marketing, promotion, travel, occupancy and equipment costs, computer services costs, costs of providing customer samples, amortization of certain acquisition-related intangible assets relating to customer relationships and costs and expenses to acquire businesses. Restructuring charges . Restructuring expense consists of severance and related costs incurred in connection with reductions in staff relating to initiatives designed to lower our manufacturing and operating costs and integrate acquired businesses, including restructuring actions taken following the Mindspeed and Nitronex acquisitions. Other income (expense) . Other income (expense) consists of our stock warrant liability expense and/or gain, interest expense, income from transition services provided related to sales of businesses and assets, and income from our administrative and business development services agreement with GaAs Labs, which is one of our stockholders and an affiliate of our directors and majority stockholders John and Susan Ocampo. We expect interest expense to be higher in future periods due to increased borrowing to fund the Mindspeed, Nitronex and BinOptics acquisitions, as well as to provide additional liquidity. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP), requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. On an ongoing basis, we re-evaluate our estimates and judgments. We base our estimates and judgments on our historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The accounting policies which our management believes involve the most significant application of judgment, or involve complex estimation, include revenue recognition, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, income tax expense and deferred tax accounting, fair value measurements and impairment of long-lived assets. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and material effects on our operating results and financial position may result. For a description of the accounting policies which, in our opinion, involve the most significant application of judgment, or involve complex estimation, and which could, if different judgments or estimates were made, materially affect our reported results of operations, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2014. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when: (i) there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (iii) the price is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. We recognize revenue with the transfer of title and risk of loss, and provide for reserves for returns and other allowances. We generally do not provide customers other than distributors the right to return product, with the exception of warranty related matters. Accordingly, we do not maintain a reserve for such customers. Shipping and handling fees billed to customers are recorded as revenue while the related costs are classified as a component of revenue. We provide warranties for our products and accrue the cost of warranty claims in the period the related revenue is recorded. Certain agreements with distribution customers provide for rights of return and price protection until such time as our products are sold by the distributors to their customers and, until the quarter ended January 2, 2015, we recognized revenue from sales under such agreements when the distributor resold the product to its end customer (the sell-through basis of recognizing revenue). In the first quarter ended January 2, 2015, we completed an evaluation of our revenue recognition methodology relating to distributors and concluded that it was more appropriate to recognize revenues on sales to distributors at the time of shipment to a distributor (the sell-in basis of recognizing revenue). Prior to the first quarter, we had concluded that we had insufficient information as well as limited experience in estimating the effect of the right of distributors to return product and price protection and, accordingly, used the sell through method of revenue recognition. We have recently concluded a study of three years of distributor related transactions in addition to our ongoing efforts to standardize our revenue recognition policies and believe we now have sufficient data to reach the conclusion that sales and revenues relating to distributor transactions are capable of reasonable estimation. Accordingly, we implemented the sell-in method of accounting for sales to distributors. We recorded adjustments during the first quarter ended January 2, 2015 related to this change to recognize previously deferred revenues and to establish a reserve of $5.5 million against distributor sales. The net effect was a one-time increase of $15.1 million for both previously deferred revenue and current period revenue. Additionally, we recognized the related inventory costs of $4.7 million. The foregoing resulted a reduction of net loss by $8.5 million and a reduction of earnings per share loss of $0.18 per share for the quarter ended January 2, 2015. In determining the new reserve amount, we noted that distributor payments are due under agreed terms and are not contingent upon resale or any other matter other than the passage of time. We have agreements with some distributors and customers for various programs, including pricing protection, obsolete inventory, new products and stock rotation. Sales to these distributors and customers, as well as the existence of sales incentive programs, are in accordance with terms set forth in written agreements with these distributors and customers. In general, credits allowed under these programs are capped based upon individual distributor agreements. We record charges associated with these programs as a reduction of revenue at the time of sale based upon historical activity. Our policy is to use a twelve month rolling historical experience rate as well as an estimated general reserve percentage in order to estimate the necessary allowance to be recorded. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations We acquired Nitronex on February 13, 2014. Because we and Nitronex were under common control since June 25, 2012, we present combined financial statements in a manner similar to a pooling-of-interests for all periods since June 25, 2012, the earliest date of common control. Accordingly, our historical financial statements have been retroactively combined as if Nitronex was acquired on June 25, 2012. All periods from June 25, 2012, have been combined using historical amounts of each entity. In addition, our financial results include 13 weeks for the three months ended January 2, 2015, and 13 weeks for the three months ended January 3, 2014. 27 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our statement of operations data (in thousands): Three Months Ended January 2, 2015 January 3, 2014 Revenue (1) $ 114,864 $ 84,154 Cost of revenue (2)(3)(6) 60,663 48,432 Gross profit 54,201 35,722 Operating expenses: Research and development 19,474 12,430 Selling, general and administrative (3)(5) 25,599 19,383 Restructuring charges 13,090 Total operating expenses 45,073 44,903 Income (loss) from operations 9,128 (9,181 ) Other income (expense): Warrant liability (expense) gain (4) (10,608 ) 1,282 Interest expense (3) (4,723 ) (586 ) Other income 375 78 Total other income (expense) (14,956 ) 774 Loss before income taxes (5,828 ) (8,407 ) Income tax provision (benefit) 478 (1,591 ) Loss from continuing operations (6,306 ) (6,816 ) Loss from discontinued operations (2,105 ) Net loss $ (6,306 ) $ (8,921 ) (1) 2015 period includes $15.1 million recognized in connection with a change in estimate related to distribution revenue recognition. (2) 2015 period includes $4.7 million recognized in connection with a change in estimate related to distribution revenue recognition. (3) Amortization expense related to intangible assets arising from acquisitions and amortization of deferred financing costs recorded as interest expense included in our consolidated statements of operations is set forth below (in thousands). (4) Represents changes in the fair value of common stock warrants recorded as liabilities and adjusted each reporting period to fair value. (5) Includes transaction expenses of $4.6 million and $4.2 million in the three months ended January 2, 2015 and January 3, 2014, respectively, and litigation costs of $0.7 million and $1.0 million in the three months ended January 2, 2015 and January 3, 2014, respectively. (6) Includes approximately $0.7 million and $0.2 million for costs for step-up in valuation of acquired inventory to fair value in the three months ended January 2, 2015 and January 3, 2014, respectively. Three Months Ended January 2, 2015 January 3, 2014 Amortization expense: Cost of revenue $ 5,359 $ 1,968 Selling, general and administrative 1,053 385 Non-cash compensation expense: (a) Cost of revenue 354 283 Research and development 1,038 484 Selling, general and administrative 2,405 1,078 Amortization of deferred financing costs interest expense 439 119 (a) Includes (i) share-based compensation expense and (ii) other non-cash compensation related to the BinOptics Acquisition. 28 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our statement of operations data expressed as a percentage of our revenue: Three Months Ended January 2, 2015 January 3, 2014 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 52.8 57.6 Gross margin (1) 47.2 42.4 Operating expenses: Research and development 17.0 14.8 Selling, general and administrative 22.3 23.0 Restructuring charges 15.6 Total operating expenses 39.2 53.4 Income (loss) from operations 7.9 (10.9 ) Other income (expense): Warrant liability (expense) gain (9.2 ) 1.5 Interest expense (4.1 ) (0.7 ) Other income 0.3 0.1 Total other income (expense) (13.0 ) 0.9 Income (loss) before income taxes (5.1 )% (10.0 )% Income tax provision (benefit) 0.4 (1.9 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (5.5 ) (8.1 ) Loss from discontinued operations (2.5 ) Net income (loss) (5.5 )% (10.6 )% (1) 2015 period includes 2.1% increase in connection with a change in estimate related to distribution revenue recognition. Comparison of the Three Months Ended January 2, 2015 to the Three Months Ended January 3, 2014 Revenue . Our revenue increased $30.7 million, or 36.5%, to $114.9 million for the three months ended January 2, 2015, from $84.2 million for the three months ended January 3, 2014. The increase in revenue in the 2014 periods are described in the following paragraphs by end markets. Revenue from our primary markets, the percentage of change between the years, and revenue by primary markets expressed as a percentage of total revenue were (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended January 2, 2015 (1) January 3, 2014 % Change Networks $ 53,460 $ 23,180 130.6 % A&D 24,853 24,225 2.6 % Multi-market 18,243 15,410 18.4 % Automotive 18,308 21,339 (14.2 )% Total $ 114,864 $ 84,154 Networks 46.5 % 27.5 % A&D 21.6 % 28.8 % Multi-market 15.9 % 18.3 % Automotive 16.0 % 25.4 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Includes $15.1 million recognized in connection with a change in estimate related to distribution revenue recognition of which $6.2 million related to Networks, $4.3 million to A&D and $4.6 million to multi-market. In the three months ended January 2, 2015, our Networks market revenue increased by 130.6%, an increase of 104% excluding the impact of the change in estimate related to distribution revenue recognition compared to the three months ended January 3, 2014. The increase in revenue in the 2015 period was primarily from sales of 29 Table of Contents our newly acquired products addressing carrier infrastructure, fiber to the home access networks, physical media devices, crosspoint and chipsets for broadcast video, as well as increased sales of our products targeting optical applications, partly offset by continued weakness in our products targeting wired broadband, wireless high-performance and wireless backhaul products. In the three months ended January 2, 2015, our A&D market revenue increased by 2.6% compared to the three months ended January 3, 2014. However, excluding the impact of the change in estimate related to distribution revenue recognition, A&D market revenue decreased by 15% compared to the three months ended January 3, 2014 due primarily to a decrease in demand for radar applications. In the three months ended January 2, 2015, our Multi-market revenues increased by 18.4% compared to the three months ended January 3, 2014. However, excluding the impact of the change in estimate related to distribution revenue recognition, Multi-market revenue decreased by 12% compared to the three months ended January 3, 2014 primarily due to decreased catalog sales. In the three months ended January 2, 2015, our Automotive revenues decreased by $3.0 million, or 14.2%, compared to the three months ended January 3, 2014. We attribute this decrease in the 2015 period to normal levels of fluctuation in demand by our largest automotive customer of our GPS modules. Gross profit . Gross margin was 47.2% for the three months ended January 2, 2015, and 42.4% for the three months ended January 3, 2014. Gross margin in the fiscal 2015 period was positively impacted by a favorable product mix with increased sales of higher gross margin products, offset by increased amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets. Research and development . R&D expense increased by $7.0 million, or 56.7%, to $19.5 million, or 17.0% of our revenue, for the three months ended January 2, 2015, compared with $12.4 million, or 14.8% of our revenue, for the three months ended January 3, 2014. R&D expense increased in the 2015 period primarily as a result of research and development activities related to acquired businesses as well as from an increase in compensation. Selling, general and administrative . SG&A expense increased $6.2 million, or 32.1%, to $25.6 million, or 22.3% of our revenue, for the three months ended January 2, 2015, compared with $19.4 million, or 23.0% of our revenue, for the three months ended January 3, 2014. SG&A expenses increased in the 2015 period primarily due to acquisition and integration costs related to acquired businesses, increased compensation, and increased litigation costs. Restructuring charges . There were no restructuring charges for the three months ended January 2, 2015, compared to charges of $13.1 million for the three months ended January 3, 2014. The fiscal year 2014 restructuring charges are related to contractual costs associated with Mindspeed employment agreements, as well as costs associated with a reduction of Mindspeed and Nitronex staffing subsequent to the acquisitions of these businesses, and related severance and benefits. Income from operations . Income from operations increased by $18.3 million to $9.1 million, or 7.9% of our revenue, for the three months ended January 2, 2015, compared with a loss of $9.2 million, or 10.9% of our revenue, for the three months ended January 3, 2014. Warrant liability . The warrant liability resulted in an expense of $10.6 million for the three months ended January 2, 2015, compared to a gain of $1.3 million for the three months ended January 3, 2014. The changes relate to the changes in the estimated fair value of common stock warrants we issued in December 2010, which we carry as a liability at fair value. Interest expense . Interest expense was $4.7 million and $0.6 million for the three months ended January 2, 2015 and January 3, 2014, respectively. The increase in interest expense in the current period is due to increased borrowings outstanding under our Credit Agreement at higher interest rates. The borrowings were primarily utilized to fund our Mindspeed and Nitronex Acquisitions. Other income . Other income was $0.4 million and $0.01 million for the three months ended January 2, 2015 and January 3, 2014, respectively. Provision for income taxes . The provision for income taxes was $0.5 million for the three months ended January 2, 2015, compared to a benefit of $1.6 million for the three months ended January 3, 2014. The provision for the three months ended January 2, 2015 results from current period taxable income after adjusting for a non-deductible discrete loss of $10.6 million for the changes in fair values of the stock warrant liability. The difference between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35% and the Companys effective income tax rates for the three months ended January 2, 2015 and January 3, 2014, was primarily impacted by changes in fair values of the stock 30 Table of Contents warrant liability which are not deductible nor taxable for tax purposes, income taxed in foreign jurisdictions at generally lower tax rates, non-deductible compensation, offset by U.S. state income taxes. For the three months ended January 2, 2015, the rate was also impacted by non-deductible merger expenses resulting from the BinOptics Acquisition. At the closing of the BinOptics Acquisition, BinOptics had, on a preliminary basis, federal net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $38.4 million, which expire at various dates through 2034, and federal research and development tax credit carryforwards of $1.5 million. Although both the NOL and tax credit carryforwards are subject to change-in-control limitations within the Internal Revenue Code, we believe the limitation will not cause any of the carryforwards to expire unutilized. The aggregate net deferred income tax liability acquired in the BinOptics Acquisition is estimated to be $37.7 million, with includes a net deferred income tax asset of $14.9 million relating to NOL and tax credit carryforwards, and a net deferred income tax liability of $52.6 million related to the difference between the book and tax bases of the intangible and other assets acquired in the acquisition. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 2, 2015, we held $48.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, all deposited with financial institutions. Cash from operations was $2.1 million in the three months ended January 2, 2015, of which the principal components were net loss of $6.3 million, plus non-cash expenses of $25.7 million, and cash decreases from operating assets and liabilities of $17.3 million. Decreases in accounts receivable, inventories and prepaid expenses and other assets of $6.6 million, $1.6 million and $2.4 million, respectively, were partially offset by decreases in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities, income taxes payable and deferred revenue of $3.5 million, $6.9 million, $0.5 million and $17.0 million, respectively. Cash used in investing activities was $227.1 million in the three months ended January 2, 2015, which consisted of net business acquisition expenditures of $223.1 million for the purchase of BinOptics, $2.9 million of purchases of property and capital equipment, including renovation of leased facilities and purchases of production and manufacturing equipment, tooling, engineering equipment and software tools, as well as $1.1 million of intellectual property acquired. Cash from financing activities was $99.4 million in the three months ended January 2, 2015, of which $100.0 million related to borrowings under our Revolving Facility. Proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases totaled $1.7 million during the period. Capital lease payments totaled $1.1 million, debt repayment of $0.9 million and repurchases of stock totaled $0.3 million during the period. On May 8, 2014, we refinanced our outstanding indebtedness under our prior revolving credit facility (Prior Facility) and discharged our obligations thereunder by entering into a credit agreement (Credit Agreement) with Goldman Sachs Bank USA and a syndicate of lenders. Concurrent with the execution of the Credit Agreement, we terminated the Prior Facility and repaid the outstanding $245.0 million principal and interest due through draws on the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million, which mature in May 2021 (Term Loans) and a revolving credit facility of up to $100.0 million, which matures in May 2019 (Revolving Facility). The Term Loans were issued with an original issue discount (OID) of 0.75%, which is being amortized over the term of the Term Loans using the effective interest rate method. Borrowings under both the Term Loans and the Revolving Facility bear interest at variable rates payable quarterly. The Term Loans are payable in quarterly principal installments of 0.25% of the Term Loans on the last business day of each calendar quarter, beginning on the last business day of September 2014, with the remainder due on the maturity date. At the signing of the Credit Agreement, the entire $350.0 million principal, less the OID, amount of the Term Loans, was funded, and we subsequently borrowed $100.0 million of indebtedness on our Revolving Facility in connection with the BinOptics Acquisition. The Term Loans and Revolving Facility are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of our assets and provide that we must comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants. As of January 2, 2015, we were in compliance with all financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. As of January 2, 2015, we had $348.3 million of outstanding Term Loan borrowings under the Credit Agreement with no borrowing availability as of that date. 31 Table of Contents In July 2013, we announced that we had licensed GaN process technology from GCS and would be installing such process technology at our Lowell, Massachusetts manufacturing facility. This installation effort is expected to be a multi-year process and to involve tens of millions of dollars of investment in capital equipment, license fees, and other related costs and expenses. We have a long-term technology licensing and transfer commitment that calls for remaining potential payments by us, as of January 2, 2015, of up to $4.9 million through July 2016. The undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are indefinitely reinvested and we do not intend to repatriate such earnings. We believe the decision to reinvest these earnings will not have a significant impact on our liquidity. As of January 2, 2015, cash held by our foreign subsidiaries was $19.2 million, which, along with cash generated from foreign operations, is expected to be used in the support of international growth and working capital requirements. As we had no remaining borrowing availability under our credit facilities as of January 2, 2015, we may consider the issuance and sale of equity securities in the future to pay down our outstanding indebtedness under our Revolving Facility or seek to refinance our indebtedness to increase our borrowing availability. We plan to use our available cash and cash equivalents and any borrowing capacity we may have from time to time under our Revolving Facility for general corporate purposes, including working capital, and potentially for the acquisition of or investment in complementary technologies, design teams, products and companies. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. We may need to raise additional capital from time to time through the issuance and sale of equity or debt securities, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so on favorable terms or at all. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I. Item 1, Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As discussed in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, as an emerging growth company and pursuant to Section 102(6)(1) of the JOBS Act, we have elected to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies, and thus our financial statements may not be comparable to those of other companies that comply with public company effective dates. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of January 2, 2015.