Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business sections and elsewhere in this Report. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report. We do not intend to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or otherwise, except as required by law. These cautionary statements qualify all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. MagnaChip is a registered trademark of us and our subsidiaries and MagnaChip Everywhere is our registered trademark and service mark. All other product, service and company names mentioned in this Report are the service marks or trademarks of their respective owners. 1 Table of Contents Item 1. Business General We are a designer and manufacturer of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor platform solutions for communications, Internet of Things (IoT) applications, consumer, industrial and automotive applications. We provide technology platforms for analog, mixed-signal, power, high voltage, non-volatile memory, and Radio Frequency (RF) applications. We have a proven record with more than 40 years of operating history, a portfolio of approximately 2,950 registered patents and pending applications and extensive engineering and manufacturing process expertise. Our business is comprised of two operating segments: Foundry Services Group and Standard Products Group. Our Foundry Services Group provides specialty analog and mixed-signal foundry services mainly for fabless and Integrated Device Manufacturer (IDM) semiconductor companies that primarily serve communications, IoT, consumer, industrial and automotive applications. Our Standard Products Group is comprised of two business lines: Display Solutions and Power Solutions. Our Display Solutions products provide panel display solutions to major suppliers of large and small rigid and flexible panel displays, and mobile, automotive applications and home appliances. Our Power Solutions products include discrete and integrated circuit solutions for power management in communications, consumer and industrial applications. Our wide variety of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products and manufacturing services combined with our mature technology platform allow us to address multiple high-growth end markets and to rapidly develop and introduce new products and services in response to market demands. Our design center and substantial manufacturing operations in Korea place us at the core of the global electronics device supply chain. We believe this enables us to quickly and efficiently respond to our customers needs and allows us to better serve and capture additional demands from existing and new customers. We have a long history of supplying and collaborating on product and technology development with leading innovators in the consumer electronics market. As a result, we have been able to strengthen our technology platform and develop products and services that are in high demand by our customers and end consumers. We sold over 2,200 distinct products in each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, with a substantial portion of our revenues derived from a concentrated number of customers. Our largest Foundry Services Group customers include some of the leading semiconductor companies that design analog and mixed-signal products for communications, IoT, consumer, industrial and automotive applications. Our business is largely driven by innovation in the consumer electronics markets and the growing adoption by consumers worldwide of electronic devices for use in their daily lives. The consumer electronics market is large and growing rapidly, largely due to consumers increasingly accessing a wide variety of rich media content, such as high definition audio and video, mobile devices, televisions and games on advanced consumer electronic devices. Electronics manufacturers are continuously implementing advanced technologies in new generations of electronic devices using analog and mixed-signal semiconductor components, such as display drivers that enable display of high resolution images, encoding and decoding devices that allow playback of high definition audio and video, and power management semiconductors that increase power efficiency, thereby improving heat dissipation and extending battery life. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we generated net sales of $792.2 million, net loss of $21.8 million, Adjusted EBITDA of $74.5 million and Adjusted Net Income of $17.1 million. See Item 6. Selected Financial Data and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations elsewhere in this Report for an explanation of our use of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income and a reconciliation to net income (loss) prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP). 2 Table of Contents Our History Our business was named MagnaChip Semiconductor when it was acquired from SK hynix Inc., formerly known as Hynix Semiconductor, Inc. (SK hynix), in October 2004. We refer to this acquisition as the Original Acquisition. On March 10, 2011, we completed our initial public offering. In connection with our initial public offering, we converted from a Delaware limited liability company to a Delaware corporation. Our Products and Services Our Display Solutions line of products provides flat panel display solutions to major suppliers of large and small flat panel displays. These products include source and gate drivers and timing controllers that cover a wide range of flat panel displays used in high definition (HD), full high definition (FHD), ultra high definition (UHD), light emitting diode (LED), 3D and organic light emitting diodes (OLED) televisions and displays, notebooks and mobile communications and entertainment devices. Our Display Solutions line of products support the industrys most advanced display technologies, such as OLEDs, and low temperature polysilicons thin film transistor (LTPS TFT), as well as high-volume display technologies such as amorphous silicon thin film transistors (a-Si TFTs). Our Display Solutions products represented 38.9%, 34.1% and 30.8% of our net sales for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expanded our business and market opportunity by establishing our Power Solutions product line in late 2007. We have introduced a number of power management semiconductor products, including discrete and integrated circuit solutions for power management in high-volume consumer applications. These products include metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors (MOSFETs), insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs), AC-DC converters, DC-DC converters, LED drivers, switching regulators and linear regulators for a range of devices, including televisions, smartphones, mobile phones, desktop PCs, notebooks, tablet PCs, other consumer electronics, and industrial applications such as power suppliers, e-bike, photovoltaic inverter, LED lighting, motor drive and home appliances. Our Power Solutions products represented 22.2%, 22.5% and 22.0% of our net sales for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Through our Foundry Services Group, we also offer foundry services to fabless analog and mixed-signal semiconductor companies and IDMs that require differentiated, specialty analog and mixed-signal process technologies. Our process technologies are optimized for analog and mixed-signal devices and include standard complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS), high voltage CMOS, ultra-low leakage high voltage CMOS and bipolar complementary double-diffused metal oxide semiconductor (BCDMOS) and electronically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM). Our Foundry Services Group customers use us to manufacture a wide range of products, including display drivers, LED drivers, audio encoding and decoding devices, microcontrollers, touch screen controllers, RF switches, park distance control sensors for automotive, electronic tag memories and power management semiconductors. Our Foundry Services Group business represented 38.8%, 43.3% and 47.1% of our net sales for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We manufacture the majority of our products at our two fabrication facilities located in Korea. We have approximately 500 proprietary process flows we can utilize for our products and offer to our Foundry Services Group customers. Our manufacturing base serves both our display driver and power management businesses and Foundry Services Group customers, allowing us to optimize our asset utilization and leverage our investments across our product and service offerings. Analog and mixed-signal manufacturing facilities and processes are typically distinguished by design and process implementation expertise rather than the use of the most advanced equipment. These processes also tend to migrate more slowly to smaller geometries due to technological barriers and increased costs. For example, some of our products use high-voltage technology that requires larger geometries and that may not migrate to smaller geometries for several years, if at all. As a result, our manufacturing base and strategy do not require substantial investment in leading edge process equipment, allowing us to utilize our facilities and equipment over an extended period of time with moderate required capital investments. 3 Table of Contents Market Opportunity The semiconductor market is large and is expanding its applications. Growth in this market is being driven by consumers seeking to enjoy a wide variety of rich media content, such as high definition audio and video, mobile devices, televisions and games. Electronics device manufacturers recognize that the consumer entertainment experience plays a critical role in differentiating their products. To address and further stimulate consumer demand, electronics manufacturers have been driving rapid advances in the technology, functionality, form factor, cost, quality, reliability and power consumption of their products. Electronics manufacturers are continuously implementing advanced technologies in new generations of electronic devices using analog and mixed-signal semiconductor components, such as display drivers that enable display of high resolution images, encoding and decoding devices that allow playback of high definition audio and video, and power management semiconductors that increase power efficiency, thereby improving heat dissipation and extending battery life. These advanced generations of consumer devices are growing faster than the overall electronics device market. The user experience delivered by a consumer electronic device is substantially driven by the quality of the display, audio and video processing capabilities and power efficiency of the device. Analog and mixed-signal semiconductors enable and enhance these capabilities. Examples of these analog and mixed-signal semiconductors include display drivers, timing controllers, audio encoding and decoding devices, or codecs, and interface circuits, as well as power management semiconductors such as voltage regulators, converters and switches. Requirements of Leading Electronic Devices Manufacturers We believe our target customers view the following characteristics and capabilities as key differentiating factors among available analog and mixed-signal semiconductor suppliers and manufacturing service providers: Broad Offering of Differentiated Products with Advanced System-Level Features and Functions. Leading electronic devices manufacturers seek to differentiate their products by incorporating innovative semiconductor products that enable unique system-level functionality and enhance performance. These consumer electronics manufacturers seek to closely collaborate with semiconductor solutions providers that continuously develop new and advanced products, technologies, and manufacturing processes that enable state of the art features and functions, such as bright and thin displays, small form factor and energy efficiency. Fast Time-to-Market with New Products. As a result of rapid technological advancements and short product lifecycles, our target customers typically prefer suppliers who have a compelling pipeline of new products and capacity to leverage a substantial intellectual property and technology base to accelerate product design and manufacturing when needed. Nimble, Stable and Reliable Manufacturing Services. Fabless semiconductor providers who rely on external manufacturing services often face rapidly changing product cycles. If these fabless companies are unable to meet the demand for their products due to issues with their manufacturing services providers, their profitability and market share can be significantly impacted. As a result, they prefer foundry service providers that can increase production quickly and meet demand consistently through periods of constrained industry capacity. Furthermore, many fabless semiconductor providers serving the consumer electronics and industrial sectors need specialty analog and mixed-signal manufacturing capabilities to address their product performance and cost requirements. Ability to Deliver Cost Competitive Solutions. Electronics manufacturers are under constant pressure to deliver cost-competitive solutions. To accomplish this objective, they need strategic semiconductor suppliers that have the ability to provide system-level solutions, highly integrated products and a broad product offering at a range of price points and have the design and manufacturing infrastructure and logistical support to deliver cost competitive products. Focus on Delivering Highly Energy-Efficient Products. Consumers increasingly seek longer run-time, environmentally friendly and energy-efficient consumer electronic products. In addition, there is increasing 4 Table of Contents regulatory focus on reducing energy consumption of consumer electronic products. As a result of global focus on more environmentally friendly products, our customers are seeking analog and mixed-signal semiconductor suppliers that have the technological expertise to deliver solutions that satisfy these ever increasing regulatory and consumer power efficiency demands. Our Competitive Strengths Designing and manufacturing analog and mixed-signal semiconductors capable of meeting the evolving functionality requirements for electronics devices are challenging. In order to grow and succeed in the industry, we believe semiconductor suppliers must have a broad, advanced intellectual property portfolio, product design expertise, comprehensive product offerings and specialized manufacturing process technologies and capabilities. Our competitive strengths enable us to offer our customers solutions to solve their key challenges. We believe our strengths include: Advanced Analog and Mixed-Signal Semiconductor Technology and Intellectual Property Platform. We believe we have one of the broadest and deepest analog and mixed-signal semiconductor technology platforms in the industry. Our long operating history, large patent portfolio, extensive engineering and manufacturing process expertise and wide selection of analog and mixed-signal intellectual property libraries allow us to leverage our technology and develop new products across multiple end markets. Our product development efforts are supported by a team of 414 engineers as of the date of this Report. Our platform allows us to develop and introduce new products quickly as well as to integrate numerous functions into a single product. For example, we were one of the first companies to introduce a commercial OLED display driver for mobile phones. Established Relationships and Close Collaboration with Leading Global Electronics Companies. We have a long history of supplying and collaborating on product and technology development with leading innovators in the consumer electronics market. Our close customer relationships have been built based on many years of close collaborative product development which provides us with deep system level knowledge and key insights into our customers needs. As a result, we are able to continuously strengthen our technology platform in areas of strategic interest for our customers and focus on those products and services that our customers and end consumers demand the most. Longstanding Presence in Asia and Proximity to Global Electronics Devices Supply Chain. Our presence in Asia facilitates close contact with our customers and fast response to their needs, and enhances our visibility into new product opportunities, markets and technology trends. Our design center and substantial manufacturing operations in Korea place us close to many of our largest customers and to the core of the global electronics devices supply chain. We have active applications, engineering, product design and customer support resources, as well as senior management and marketing resources, in geographic locations close to our customers. This allows us to strengthen our relationship with customers through better service, faster turnaround time and improved product design collaboration. We believe this also helps our customers to deliver products faster than their competitors and to solve problems more efficiently than would be possible with other suppliers. Broad Portfolio of Product and Service Offerings Targeting Large, High-Growth Markets. We continue to develop a wide variety of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor solutions for multiple high-growth electronics device end markets. We believe our expanding product and service offerings allow us to provide additional products to new and existing customers and to cross-sell our products and services to our established customers. For example, we have leveraged our technology expertise and customer relationships to develop and grow power management solutions to customers. Our power management solutions enable our customers to increase system stability and improve heat dissipation and energy use, resulting in improved system efficiency and system cost savings for our customers, as well as environmental benefits. We have been able to sell these new products to our existing customers as well as expand our customer base. 5 Table of Contents Distinctive Analog and Mixed-Signal Process Technology Expertise and Manufacturing Capabilities. We have developed specialty analog and mixed-signal manufacturing processes such as high voltage CMOS, power and embedded memory. These processes enable us to flexibly ramp mass production of display, power and mixed-signal products, and shorten the duration from design to delivery of highly integrated, high-performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductors. Highly Efficient Manufacturing Capabilities. Our manufacturing strategy is focused on optimizing our asset utilization across our display driver and power management products as well as our foundry services, which enables us to maintain the price competitiveness of our products and services through our low-cost operating structure and improve our operational efficiency. We believe the location of our primary manufacturing and research and development facilities in Asia and the relatively low need for ongoing capital expenditures provide us with a number of cost advantages. We offer specialty analog process technologies that do not require substantial investment in leading edge, smaller geometry process equipment. We are able to utilize our manufacturing base over an extended period of time and thereby minimize our capital expenditure requirements. Our Strategy Our objective is to grow our business, cash flow and profitability and to continue strengthening our position in the semiconductor industry as a leading provider of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products and services for high-volume markets. Our business strategy emphasizes the following key elements: Leverage Our Advanced Analog and Mixed-Signal Technology Platform to Innovate and Deliver New Products and Services. We intend to continue to utilize our extensive patent and technology portfolio, analog and mixed-signal design and manufacturing expertise and specific end-market applications and system-level design expertise to deliver products with high levels of performance by utilizing our systems expertise and leveraging our deep knowledge of our customers needs. Increase Business with Existing Customers. We have a global customer base consisting of leading consumer electronics OEMs that sell into multiple end markets. We intend to continue to strengthen our relationships with our customers by collaborating on critical design and product development in order to improve our design-win rates. We seek to increase our customer penetration by more closely aligning our product roadmap with those of our key customers and take advantage of our broad product portfolio, our deep knowledge of customer needs and existing relationships to sell more existing and new products. Broaden Our Customer Base. We expect to continue to expand our global design centers, local application engineering support and sales presence, particularly in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau, or collectively, Greater China, and other high-growth geographies, to penetrate new accounts. In addition, we intend to introduce new products and variations of existing products to address a broader customer base. In order to broaden our market penetration, we are complementing our direct customer relationships and sales with an improved base of distributors, especially to aid the growth of our power management business. Drive Execution Excellence. We intend to improve our execution through a number of management initiatives, new processes for product development, customer service and personnel development. We expect these ongoing initiatives will contribute to improvement of our new product development and customer service as well as enhance our commitment to a culture of quick action and execution by our workforce. In addition, we have focused on improving our manufacturing efficiency during the past several years. Optimize Asset Utilization, Return on Capital Investments and Cash Flow Generation. We intend to keep our capital expenditures relatively low by maintaining our focus on specialty process technologies that do not require substantial investment in frequent upgrades to the latest manufacturing equipment. By utilizing our manufacturing facilities for our Display Solutions and Power Solutions products and our Foundry Services Group customers, we seek to maximize return on our capital investments and our cash flow generation. 6 Table of Contents Our Technology We continuously strengthen our advanced analog and mixed-signal semiconductor technology platform by developing innovative technologies and integrated circuit building blocks that enhance the functionality of electronics devices through brighter, thinner displays, enhanced image quality, smaller form factor and longer battery life. We seek to further build our technology platform through proprietary processes and selective licensing and acquisition of complementary technologies, as well as disciplined process improvements in our manufacturing operations. Our goal is to leverage our experience and development initiatives across multiple end markets and utilize our understanding of system-level issues our customers face to introduce new technologies that enable our customers to develop more advanced, higher performance products. Our display technology portfolio includes building blocks for display drivers and timing controllers, processor and interface technologies, as well as sophisticated production techniques, such as chip-on-glass (COG), chip-on-film (COF) and chip-on-plastic (COP) for rigid, flexible bezel-less, edge type, and trench type OLED displays. Our advanced display drivers incorporate LTPS TFT and OLED panel technologies that enable the highest resolution displays. Furthermore, we are developing a broad intellectual property portfolio to improve the power efficiency of displays, including the development of our contents-based automatic brightness control (CABC), automatic current limit (ACL) and optical compensation technology for OLED displays. We have a long history of specialized process technology development and have a number of distinctive process implementations. We have approximately 500 process flows we can utilize for our products and offer to our Foundry Services Group customers. Our process technologies include standard CMOS, high voltage CMOS, ultra-low leakage high voltage CMOS, logic process based bipolar-CMOS-DMOS (BCDMOS), epi-based BCDMOS, and radio frequency silicon on insulator (RFSOI). Our manufacturing processes incorporate embedded memory solutions, such as static random access memory (SRAM), one-time programmable (OTP) memory, multiple-time programmable (MTP) memory, electrical fuse, eFlash and EEPROM. More broadly, we focus extensively on processes that reduce die size across all of the products we manufacture, in order to deliver cost-effective solutions to our customers. Expertise in ultra-high voltage (UHV), high voltage and deep trench BCDMOS process technologies, low power analog and mixed-signal design capabilities and packaging know-how are key requirements in the power management market. We are currently leveraging our capabilities in these areas with products such as AC-DC converters, DC-DC converters, LED drivers, linear regulators and analog switches, power MOSFETs and IGBTs. We believe our system-level understanding of applications such as LCD televisions and smartphones will allow us to more quickly develop and customize power management solutions for our customers in these markets. Products and Services by Business Line Our broad portfolio of products and services addresses multiple high-growth, consumer-focused end markets. A key component of our product strategy is to supply multiple related product and service offerings to each of the end markets that we serve. Foundry Services We provide specialty analog and mixed-signal foundry services to fabless semiconductor companies and IDMs that serve communications, IoT, consumer, industrial and automotive applications. We manufacture wafers based on our customers product designs. We do not market these products directly to end customers but rather supply manufactured wafers and products to our customers to market to their end customers. We offer approximately 500 process flows to our Foundry Services Group customers. We also often partner with key customers to jointly develop or customize specialized processes that enable our customers to improve their products and allow us to develop unique manufacturing expertise. Our Foundry Services Group targets customers who require differentiated, specialty analog and mixed-signal process technologies such as high voltage CMOS, non-volatile memory and power. We refer to our 7 Table of Contents approach of delivering specialized services to our customers as our application-specific technology strategy. We differentiate ourselves through the depth of our intellectual property portfolio, ability to customize process technology to meet the customers requirements effectively, long history in this business and reputation for excellence. Our Foundry Services Group customers vary from small fabless companies to large IDMs who serve communications, IoT, consumer, industrial and automotive applications. Process Technology Overview Mixed-Signal. Mixed-signal process technology is used in devices that require conversion of light and sound into electrical signals for processing and display. Our mixed-signal processes include advanced technologies such as low-noise process using triple gate, which allows die size reduction at any given performance level. Power. Power process technology, such as BCD, includes high-voltage capabilities as well as the ability to integrate functionalities, such as self-regulation, internal protection and other intelligent features. Unique process features, such as deep trench isolation, thick inter-metal isolation and embedded high density non-volatile memory are suited for chip shrink and device performance enhancement. High Voltage CMOS. High-voltage CMOS process technology facilitates the use of high-voltage levels in conjunction with smaller transistor sizes. This process technology includes several variations, such as bipolar processes, which use transistors with qualities well suited for amplifying and switching applications, mixed-mode processes, which incorporate denser, more power efficient FETs, and thick metal processes. Non-Volatile Memory. Non-volatile memory (NVM), process technology enables the integration of non-volatile memory cells that allow retention of the stored information even when power is removed from the circuit. This type of memory is typically used for long-term persistent storage. The table below sets forth the key process technologies in Foundry Services Group that we currently offer to customers: Process Technology Device Application Mixed-Signal 0.13-0.5m Low noise Ultra low power Triple gate RF SOI 0.13m Simplified* 0.18m Simplified Analog to digital converter Digital to analog converter Audio amplifier Chipset RF switch Digital tunable capacitor Fingerprint sensor Hall sensor Isolator MEMS microphone sensor IC Smartphones Tablet PCs Notebooks PC peripherals Battery charger LED lighting Home appliance VR/AR 8 Table of Contents Process Technology Device Application Power 0.13-0.35m BCD 40V-200V* Deep trench isolation MOSFET Ultra high voltage Thick metal Slim BCD 100V* Simplified UHV SOI BCD* Power management LED driver High power audio amp Power Over Ethernet DC/DC converter AC/DC converter USB type-C Wireless power charger Motor driver High voltage switch Smartphones Tablet PCs Notebooks LCD TVs LED lighting LCD monitors Automotive Industrial Servers e-Bike Home appliance High-Voltage CMOS 0.11-0.35m 18V-45V Bipolar Display driver CSTN driver Smartphones Tablet PCs LCD TVs Desktop PCs LCD monitors NVM 0.13-0.35m EEPROM eFlash, Ultra low leakage eFlash OTP MTP eFuse Microcontroller Touch screen controller Electronic tag memory Hearing aid controller Fingerprint sensor Auto Focus IC Wireless power charger Smartphones Tablet PCs Industrial applications Medical equipment Automotive Home appliance * In customer qualification stage Display Solutions Display Driver Characteristics. Display drivers deliver defined analog voltages and currents that activate pixels to exhibit images on displays. The following key characteristics determine display driver performance and end-market application: Resolution and Number of Channels. Resolution determines the level of detail displayed within an image and is defined by the number of pixels per line multiplied by the number of lines on a display. For large displays, higher resolution typically requires more display drivers for each panel. Display drivers that have a greater number of channels, however, generally require fewer display drivers for each panel and command a higher selling price per unit. Mobile displays, conversely, are typically single chip solutions designed to deliver a specific resolution. We cover resolutions ranging from VGA (640 x 480) to UHD (3840 x 2160). Color Depth. Color depth is the number of colors that can be displayed on a panel. For example, for TFT-LCD panels, 262 thousand colors are supported by 6-bit source drivers; 16 million colors are supported by 8-bit source drivers; and 1 billion colors are supported by 10-bit source drivers. Operational Voltage. Display drivers are characterized by input and output voltages. Source drivers typically operate at input voltages from 1.62 to 3.6 volts and output voltages between 9 and 18 volts. Gate drivers typically operate at input voltages from 1.62 to 3.6 volts and output voltages from 30 to 45 volts. Lower input voltage results in lower power consumption and electromagnetic interference (EMI). Gamma Curve. The relationship between the light passing through a pixel and the voltage applied to the pixel by the source driver is referred to as the gamma curve. The gamma curve of the source driver can correct some imperfections in picture quality in a process generally known as gamma correction. Some advanced display drivers feature up to three independent gamma curves to facilitate this correction. 9 Table of Contents Driver Interface. Driver interface refers to the connection between the timing controller and the display drivers. Display drivers increasingly require higher bandwidth interface technology to address the larger data transfer rate necessary for higher definition images. The principal types of interface technologies are embedded clock point to point interface (EPI), advanced intra panel interface (AIPI), mini-low voltage differential signaling (m-LVDS), unified standard interface for notebook and monitor (USI-GF), unified standard interface (USI), unified standard interface for TV (USI-T) and mobile industry processor interface (MIPI). Package Type. The assembly of display drivers typically uses COF, COG and COP package types. Large Display Solutions. We provide display solutions for a wide range of flat panel display sizes used in LCD televisions, including ultra-high definition televisions, or UHD TVs, FHD TVs, HD TVs, LED TVs, 3D TVs, OLED TVs, LCD monitors, notebooks, tablet PCs, public information displays and automotive. Our large display solutions include source and gate drivers and timing controllers with a variety of interfaces, voltages, frequencies and packages to meet customers needs. These products include advanced technologies such as high channel count, with products in mass production to provide up to 1,542 channels. Our large display solutions are designed to allow customers to cost-effectively meet the increasing demand for high resolution displays. We focus extensively on reducing the die size of our large display drivers and other solutions products to reduce costs without having to migrate to smaller geometries. For example, we have implemented several solutions to reduce die size in large display drivers, such as optimizing design schemes and design rules and applying specific technologies that we have developed internally. We have recently introduced a number of new large display drivers with reduced die size. The table below sets forth the features of our products, both in mass production and in customer qualification, which is the final stage of product development, for large-sized displays: Product Key Features Applications TFT-LCD Source Drivers 480 to 1,542 output channels 6-bit (262 thousand colors), 8-bit (16 million colors), 10-bit (1 billion colors) Output voltage ranging from 9V to 18V Low power consumption and low EMI COF package types EPI, m-LVDS, AIPI, USI interface technologies UHD/HD/LED/3D TVs Notebooks LCD/LED monitors Automotive TFT-LCD Gate Drivers 272 to 960 output channels Output voltage ranging from 30V to 45V COF and COG package types Tablet PCs HD/LED/3D TVs Notebooks Automotive Timing Controllers Wide range of resolutions EPI, m-LVDS, MIPI, USI-T interface technologies Input voltage ranging from 1.6V to 3.6V Tablet PCs Public information display OLED Source Drivers 960 output channels 10 bit (1 billion colors) Output voltage: 18V COF package type EPI interface technology OLED TVs 10 Table of Contents Mobile Display Solutions. Our mobile display solutions incorporate the industrys most advanced display technologies, such as OLED and LTPS, as well as high-volume technologies such as a-Si TFT. Our mobile display products offer specialized capabilities, including high speed serial interfaces, such as mobile display digital interface (MDDI), MIPI, reduced swing differential signaling interface (RSDS) and logic-based OTP memory. We focus extensively on reducing the die size of our mobile display drivers and other solutions products to reduce costs. For example, we have implemented several solutions to reduce die size in mobile display drivers, such as optimizing design schemes and design rules and applying specific technologies that we have developed internally. Further, we are building a distinctive intellectual property portfolio that allows us to provide features that reduce power consumption, such as CABC and ACL. This intellectual property portfolio will also support our power management product development initiatives, as we leverage our system level understanding of power efficiency. Our OLED driver ICs can support various configurations such as high resolution from FHD+(2,240x1,080) to QHD+(3,120x1,440), wide aspect ratio from 16:9 to 21:9 and flexible bezel-less, edge type, and trench type OLED displays. In the transition to, and adoption of, 5G, fast responses and high frame rates such as 90Hz and 120Hz are becoming essential product offerings. To meet this new and evolving demand, we have developed and mass produced our OLED display driver IC, which supports 90Hz/120Hz frame rates. The following table summarizes the features of our products, both in mass production and in customer qualification, which is the final stage of product development, for mobile displays: Product Key Features Applications OLED Resolutions of HD720, WXGA, FHD, FHD+, QHD and QHD+ Aspect ratio from 16:9 to 21:9 Color depth of 1 billion MIPI, eRVDS interface Logic-based OTP ABC, ACL Smartphones Game consoles Digital still cameras Tablet PCs Virtual reality headsets LTPS Resolutions of VGA, WSVGA, WVGA and DVGA Color depth of 16 million MDDI, MIPI interface Logic-based OTP Separated gamma control Smartphones Digital still cameras a-Si TFT Resolutions of WQVGA and HVGA Color depth of 16 million RSDS, MDDI, MIPI interface CABC Separated gamma control Mobile phones Digital still cameras Automotive Power Solutions We develop, manufacture and market power management solutions for a wide range of end-market customers. The products include MOSFETs, IGBTs, AC-DC converters, DC-DC converters, LED drivers, regulators, for a range of devices, including LCD, LED, and UHD televisions, digital signage, smartphones, mobile phones, desktop PCs, notebooks, tablet PCs, other consumer electronics, consumer appliances and industrial applications such as power suppliers, e-bikes, photovoltaic inverters, LED lighting and motor drives. MOSFETs. Our MOSFETs include low-voltage to mid-voltage, Trench MOSFETs, 12V to 150V, high-voltage Planar MOSFETs, 200V through 650V, and super junction MOSFETs, 500V through 900V. 11 Table of Contents MOSFETs are used in applications to switch, shape or transfer electricity under varying power requirements. The key application segments are smartphones, mobile phones, LCD, LED, and UHD televisions, desktop PCs, notebooks, tablet PCs, servers, lighting and power supplies for consumer electronics and industrial equipment. MOSFETs allow electronics manufacturers to achieve specific design goals of high efficiency and low standby power consumption. For example, computing solutions focus on delivering efficient controllers and MOSFETs for power management in VCORE, DDR and chipsets for audio, video and graphics processing systems. IGBTs. Our IGBTs include 650V to 1200V field stop trench IGBTs. IGBTs are used in high power industrial applications, such as UPSs, power supplies, motor drives, solar inverters, welding machines and consumer appliances. AC-DC Converters and DC-DC Converters. We offer AC-DC and DC-DC converters targeting mobile applications and high power applications like LCD, LED, and UHD televisions, notebooks, smartphones, mobile phones, set-top boxes and display modules. We expect our AC-DC and DC-DC converters will meet customers green power requirements by featuring wide input voltage ranges, high efficiency and small size. LED Drivers. LED backlighting drivers serve the fast-growing LCD and LED panel backlighting market for LCD and LED televisions, LCD monitors, digital signage, notebooks, smartphones and tablet PCs. Our products are designed to provide high efficiency and wide input voltage range, as well as pulse width modulation (PWM) dimming for accurate white LED dimming control. LED lighting drivers have a wide input voltage range applicable to incandescent bulb and fluorescent lamp replacement. Regulators. We also provide analog regulators for mobile, computing and consumer applications. Our products are designed for high efficiency and low power consumption in mobile applications. SSD PMIC. We also provide solid state drive power management integrated circuit (SSD PMIC) for the computing segment. Our product is designed for high frequency switching, high efficiency and pulse frequency modulation (PFM) function to reduce power consumption in low load converters. Our power management solutions enable customers to increase system stability and improve heat dissipation and energy use, resulting in cost savings for our customers and consumers, as well as environmental benefits. Our in-house process technology capabilities and eight-inch wafer production lines increase efficiency and contribute to the competitiveness of our products. The following table summarizes the features of our products, both in mass production and in customer qualification, which is the final stage of product development: Product Key Features Applications Low-Mid Voltage MOSFET Voltage options of 12V-150V Advanced Trench MOSFET Process High cell density Advanced packages to enable reduction of PCB mounting area Smartphones and mobile phones Tablet PCs, Notebooks Desktop PCs, Servers LCD/LED/UHD TVs Industrial applications Cryptocurrency miner High Voltage MOSFET Voltage options of 200V-650V R2FET (rapid recovery) option to shorten reverse diode recovery time Zenor FET option for MOSFET protection for abnormal input Advanced Planar MOSFET Process Advanced packages to enable reduction of PCB mounting area Adaptors for tablet PC/mobile phone/smartphone Power supplies Lighting (ballast, HID, LED) Industrial applications LCD/LED/UHD TVs 12 Table of Contents Product Key Features Applications Super Junction MOSFET Voltage options of 500V-900V Low R DS(ON) Epi stack process Zenor FET option for MOSFET protection for abnormal input Advanced SJ MOSFET process Advanced packages to enable reduction of PCB mounting area LCD/LED/UHD TVs Lightings applications (ballast, HID, LED) Smartphones Power supplies Servers Industrial applications IGBTs Voltage options of 650V/1200V Field Stop Trench IGBT Current options from 15A to 60A Industrial applications Consumer appliances AC-DC Converter Wide control range for high power application (>150W) Advanced BCDMOS process High Precision Voltage Reference Very low startup current consumption LCD/LED/UHD TVs Power supplies DC-DC Converters High efficiency, wide input voltage range Advanced BCDMOS process Fast load and line regulation Accurate output voltage OCP, SCP and thermal protections LCD/LED/UHD TVs Smartphones Mobile phones Notebooks Set-top boxes LED Backlighting Drivers High efficiency, wide input voltage range Advanced BCDMOS process OCP, SCP, OVP and UVLO protections Accurate LED current control and multi-channel matching Programmable current limit, boost up frequency Tablet PCs Notebooks Smartphones LED/UHD TVs LED monitors Digital Controlled LED Driver Multi-channel constant current control 12Bit gray scale with SPI Digital signage LED Lighting Drivers High efficiency, wide input voltage range Simple solutions with external components fully integrated Advanced high voltage BCDMOS process Accurate LED current control and high power factor and low THB AC and DC LED lighting 13 Table of Contents Product Key Features Applications Regulators Single and multi-regulators Low Noise Output regulators Wide range of input voltage and various output current CMOS and BCDMOS processes LDO (Low Drop Out Linear Regulator) Smartphones and Mobile phones Notebooks Computing SSD PMIC High current buck PFM function High frequency switching High efficiency High integration technology Small QFN package Computing Sales and Marketing We focus our sales and marketing strategy on continuing to grow and leverage our existing relationships with leading consumer electronics OEMs, while expanding into industrial and automotive end markets. For Foundry Services Group, we focus on analog and mixed-signal semiconductor companies who see the benefit of our innovative technology and cost structure. We believe our close collaboration with customers allows us to align our product and process technology development with our customers existing and future needs. Because our customers often service multiple end markets, our product sales teams are organized by customers within the major geographies. We believe this facilitates the sale of products that address multiple end-market applications to each of our customers. Our Foundry Services Group sales teams focus on marketing our services to analog and mixed-signal semiconductor companies that require specialty manufacturing processes. We sell our products through a direct sales force and a network of authorized agents and distributors. We have strategically located our sales and technical support offices near our customers. Our direct sales force consists primarily of representatives co-located with our design center in Korea, as well as our local sales and support offices in the US, Japan, Greater China and Europe. We have a network of agents and distributors in Korea, the US, Japan, Greater China and Europe. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we derived 78%, 77% and 75% of net sales through our direct sales force, respectively, and 22%, 23% and 25% of net sales through our network of authorized agents and distributors, respectively. Customers We sell our Display Solutions and Power Solutions products to consumer, computing and industrial electronics OEMs, original design manufacturers and electronics manufacturing services companies, as well as subsystem designers. We sell our foundry services to analog and mixed-signal semiconductor companies. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, our ten largest customers accounted for 67%, 61% and 57% of our net sales, respectively. Our arrangements with and reliance on key customers, particularly customers for our display products and services, may make it less practicable to pursue certain opportunities with other potential new and existing customers For the year ended December 31, 2019, sales to Samsung Display represented 32.9% of our net sales and 84.5% of our Display Solutions divisions net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2018, sales to Samsung Display represented 19.3% of our net sales and 56.6% of our Display Solutions divisions net sales, and LG Display represented 13.3% of our net sales and 38.9% of our Display Solutions divisions net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2017, sales to LG Display represented 15.6% of our net sales and 50.6% of our Display Solutions divisions net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded revenues of $28.1 million from customers in the US and $764.1 million from all foreign countries, of which 46.0% was from Greater China, 32.6% from Korea, 12.7% from Taiwan and 4.2% from the United Kingdom. For the year ended 14 Table of Contents December 31, 2018, we recorded revenues of $37.5 million from customers in the US and $713.4 million from all foreign countries, of which 39.6% was from Korea, 35.5% from Greater China, 14.0% from Taiwan and 4.5% from the United Kingdom. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded revenues of $35.1 million from customers in the US and $644.6 million from all foreign countries, of which 43.4% was from Korea, 24.9% from Greater China, 18.2% from Taiwan and 3.7% from the United Kingdom. Intellectual Property As of December 31, 2019, our portfolio of intellectual property assets included approximately 2,676 registered patents and 265 pending patent applications. Approximately 1,886 and 115 of our patents and pending applications, respectively, are novel in that they are not a foreign counterpart of an existing patent or patent application. Because we file patents in multiple jurisdictions, we additionally have approximately 790 registered patents and 150 pending applications that relate to identical technical claims in our base patent portfolio. Our patents expire at various times approximately over the next 18 years. While these patents are in the aggregate important to our competitive position, we do not believe that any single registered or pending patent is material to us. We have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses and development agreements with third parties relating to the use of intellectual property of the third parties in our products and design processes, including licenses related to embedded memory technology, design tools, process simulation tools, circuit designs and processor cores. Some of these licenses, including our agreements with Silicon Works Co., Ltd. and ARM Limited, are material to our business and may be terminated by the licensors prior to the expiration of these licenses should we fail to cure any breach under such licenses. Our license with Silicon Works Co., Ltd. relates to our large display drivers, and our license from ARM Limited primarily relates to product lines in our Foundry Services Group business. The loss of either license could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, in connection with the Original Acquisition, SK hynix retained a perpetual license to use the intellectual property that we acquired from SK hynix in the Original Acquisition. Under this license, SK hynix and its subsidiaries are free to develop products that may incorporate or embody intellectual property developed by us prior to October 2004. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our BusinessOur ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property, proprietary technology and know-how, as well as our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Competition We operate in highly competitive markets characterized by rapid technological change and continually advancing customer requirements. Although no one company competes with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition in each of our market segments. Our competitors include other independent and captive manufacturers and designers of analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits, including display driver and power management semiconductor devices, as well as companies providing specialty manufacturing services. We compete based on design experience, manufacturing capabilities, the ability to service customer needs from the design phase through the shipping of a completed product, length of design cycle and quality of technical support and sales personnel. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on internal and external variables, both within and outside of our control. These variables include the timeliness with which we can develop new products and technologies, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields, capacity availability, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic trends. Employees Our worldwide workforce consisted of 2,451 employees (full- and part-time) as of December 31, 2019, of which 336 were involved in sales, marketing, general and administrative, 414 in research and development 15 Table of Contents (including 189 with advanced degrees), 102 in quality, reliability and assurance and 1,599 in manufacturing (comprised of 244 in engineering and 1,355 in operations). As of December 31, 2019, our workforce consisted of 2,451 employees, of which 1,449 employees, or approximately 59% of our workforce, were represented by the MagnaChip Semiconductor Labor Union. Environmental We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the generation, use, handling, storage and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances (including asbestos) and waste, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Since 2015, our Korean subsidiary has been subject to a new set of greenhouse gas emissions regulation, the Korean Emissions Trading Scheme, or K-ETS, under the Act on Allocation and Trading of Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowances. Under K-ETS, our Korean subsidiary was allocated a certain amount of emissions allowance in accordance with the National Allocation Plan prepared by the Korean government and is required to meet its allocated target by either reducing the emission or purchasing the allowances from other participants in the emission trading market. Another example is the newly reinforced regulations on chemicals under Chemicals Control Act and K-REACH, which came into effect on January 1, 2015. Under these laws, our Korean subsidiary is required to comply with various requirements to report, evaluate, manage and ensure the safe usage of the chemicals used in its facilities. There can be no assurance that we have been or will be in compliance with all of these laws and regulations, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these laws and regulations in the future. The adoption of new environmental, health and safety laws and the failure to comply with new or existing laws or issues relating to hazardous substances could subject us to material liability (including substantial fines or penalties), impose the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements upon us, curtail our operations or restrict our ability to expand operations. Raw Materials We use processes that require specialized raw materials that are generally available from a limited number of suppliers. We continue to attempt to qualify additional suppliers for our raw materials. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, adopted new disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products containing certain minerals that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These conflict minerals are commonly found in metals used in the manufacture of semiconductors. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of metals used in the manufacture of our products. See Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our BusinessCompliance with new regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain raw materials used in manufacturing our products. Available Information Our principal executive office is located at: c/o MagnaChip Semiconductor S.A., 1, Alle Scheffer, L-2520 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and our telephone number is (352) 45-62-62. Our website address is www.magnachip.com. Our annual, quarterly and current reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K, respectively, and all amendments thereto filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, can be accessed, free of charge, at our website as soon as practicable after such reports are filed with the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Clawback Policy, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating and Governance Committee Charter and Risk Committee Charter are available on our website. Information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, part of this Report and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site, www.sec.gov, from which you can access our 16 Table of Contents annual, quarterly and current reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, respectively, and all amendments to these materials after such reports and amendments are filed with the SEC. You may also request a copy of these filings, at no cost, by writing or telephoning us at the following address or phone number: c/o MagnaChip Semiconductor, Inc., 60 South Market Street, Suite 750, San Jose, CA 95113, Attention: General Counsel and Secretary; the telephone number at that address is (408) 625-5999. Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our current executive officers: Name Age Position Young-Joon (YJ) Kim 55 Director and Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Kim 45 Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Theodore Kim 50 Chief Compliance Officer, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Woung Moo Lee 57 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Standard Products Group Young-Joon (YJ) Kim, Director and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. YJ Kim became our Chief Executive Officer in May 2015 and has also served as a director on our Board since that time. He is also serving as the acting General Manager of Foundry Services Group, a position he has held since January 2019. Mr. Kim joined our company in May 2013 and served as our Executive Vice President and General Manager, Display Solutions Division. He was promoted to Interim Chief Executive Officer in May 2014. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Kim held a variety of senior management roles at several global semiconductor firms in a career spanning nearly 30 years. His past roles include marketing, engineering, product development and strategic planning, and his product expertise includes microprocessors, network processors, FLASH, EPROM, analog, mixed-signal, sensors, workstations and servers. Immediately before joining our company, Mr. Kim served as Vice President, Infrastructure Processor Division, and General Manager of the OCTEON Multi-Core Processor Group of Cavium, Inc., where he worked from 2006 to 2013. Prior to Cavium, Mr. Kim served as Core Team Lead and General Manager of the Tolapai Program at Intel Corporation from 2004 to 2006. In 1998, Mr. Kim co-founded API Networks, a joint venture between Samsung and Compaq, where he served as the head of product management, worldwide sales and business development for Alpha processors. Prior to API Networks, Mr. Kim served as Director of Marketing at Samsung Semiconductor, Inc. from 1996 to 1998. Mr. Kim began his career as a product engineer at Intel Corporation. Mr. Kim holds B.S. and M. Eng. degrees in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University. Our Board has concluded that Mr. YJ Kim is a valuable member of the Board based on his understanding of our companys products and technology as our Chief Executive Officer and his deep knowledge of the semiconductor industry. Jonathan Kim (J. Kim), Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer . Mr. Jonathan Kim was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President in May 2015, after serving as our Interim Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President since March 2014. Prior to joining MagnaChip, Mr. Kim served since July 2010 as the Chief Financial Officer of StartForce, Inc., a VC backed desktop virtualization company, which was acquired in February 2011 by ZeroDesktop, Inc., a leading developer of next-generation desktop virtualization and cloud computing solutions. Mr. Kim continued to serve as the Chief Financial Officer at ZeroDesktop through March 2014. Mr. Kim also served as a principal at a Silicon Valley based investment and advisory firm where he led investments in startup companies in the US and Korea. Mr. Kim began his career in public accounting and held various positions with Deloitte for nearly 10 years, serving Global Fortune 500 and US multinational publicly traded clients in the Technology, Media & Telecommunication sectors. Mr. Kim holds a B.A. degree in Business Administration from the Foster School of Business at the University of Washington and is a Certified Public Accountant. 17 Table of Contents Theodore Kim (T. Kim), Chief Compliance Officer, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. T. Kim became our Chief Compliance Officer and Executive Vice President in May 2015, and became our General Counsel and Secretary in November 2013. Mr. T. Kim previously served as our Senior Vice President from November 2013 to May 2015. Prior to joining our company, Mr. T. Kim served as Head Lawyer, Global Business Development at Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance from October 2012 to October 2013. Mr. T. Kim was employed by Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, a law firm, from October 2005 to July 2012, serving most recently as Of Counsel. Prior to that, he served as Foreign Legal Consultant at Kim & Chang, a law firm in Korea, from 2001 to 2005, and prior to that, he worked as an associate attorney at Morrison & Foerster LLP, a law firm, from 1997 to 2001. Mr. Kim holds a B.A. degree in Economics and a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Irvine, and a J.D. degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law. Woung Moo Lee, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Standard Products Group . Mr. Woung Moo Lee became our Executive Vice President and General Manager, Standard Products Group in November 2015. He previously served as our Senior Vice President, Korea Sales from 2013. Prior to joining our company, he was one of the founding executives and served as Vice President, Global Strategy and Marketing, Samsung LED Co., Ltd. from 2009 to 2011. In 1984, Mr. Lee began his career as a memory semiconductor design engineer and served as Vice President of Memory Strategy & Marketing Team at Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. until 2009. Mr. Lee received the Proud Samsung Employee Award in 2005 and holds a B.S. degree in Electronic Engineering from Inha University. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those currently viewed by us to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns that may negatively impact our results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, these and other factors, together with changes in general economic conditions, cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry in general and in our business in particular. Periods of industry downturns have been characterized by diminished demand for end-user products, high inventory levels, underutilization of manufacturing capacity, changes in revenue mix and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience renewed, and possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future as a result of such cyclical changes. This may reduce our results of operations. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. 18 Table of Contents Our restructuring activities and dispositions of assets and businesses could result in lost business and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. From time to time, we may choose to sell assets, restructure business operations, shut down manufacturing lines or otherwise dispose of assets and businesses as part of managements strategies to better align our product offerings with market demands and our customers needs. In connection with these activities, we face risks that we will disrupt service to our customers, lose business and incur significant costs related to such activities. These risks include potential damage to our reputation and customer relationships if we are unable to effectively transition such customer relationships to other production lines or products or if we cannot effectively manage our supplier and vendor relationships during such activities. In addition, we may also face claims or costs associated with transitioning or eliminating certain employee positions and modifying or terminating vendor relationships in connection with those exit activities. If we fail to develop new products and process technologies or enhance our existing products and services in order to react to rapid technological change and market demands, our business will suffer. Our industry is subject to constant and rapid technological change and product obsolescence as customers and competitors create new and innovative products and technologies. Products or technologies developed by other companies may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, and we may not be able to access advanced process technologies, including smaller geometries, or to license or otherwise obtain essential intellectual property required by our customers. We must develop new products and services and enhance our existing products and services to meet rapidly evolving customer requirements. We design products for customers that continually require higher performance and functionality at lower costs. We must, therefore, continue to enhance the performance and functionality of our products. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and requires us to accurately anticipate technological changes and market trends. Developing and enhancing these products is uncertain and can be time-consuming, costly and complex. If we do not continue to develop and maintain process technologies that are in demand by our Foundry Services Group customers, we may be unable to maintain existing customers or attract new customers. Customer and market requirements can change during the development process. There is a risk that these developments and enhancements will be late, fail to meet customer or market specifications or not be competitive with products or services from our competitors that offer comparable or superior performance and functionality. Any new products, such as our expanding line of power management solutions, or product or service enhancements, may not be accepted in new or existing markets. Our business will suffer if we fail to develop and introduce new products and services or product and service enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We manufacture our products based on our estimates of customer demand, and if our estimates are incorrect, our financial results could be negatively impacted. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer demand and expected demand for and success of their products. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to estimate accurately future customer demand for our products. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in supply, which can challenge our production resources and reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers increased demand for our products. Conversely, downturns in the semiconductor industry have caused and may in the future cause our customers to reduce significantly the amount of products they order from us. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand would decrease our results of operations, including our gross profit. 19 Table of Contents Our customers may cancel their orders, reduce quantities or delay production, which would adversely affect our margins and results of operations. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, reduce quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers, which we have experienced as a result of periodic downturns in the semiconductor industry, or failure to achieve design-wins, have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations adversely. These risks are exacerbated because many of our products are customized, which hampers our ability to sell excess inventory to the general market. We may incur charges resulting from the write-off of obsolete inventory. In addition, while we do not obtain long-term purchase commitments, we generally agree to the pricing of a particular product over a set period of time. If we underestimate our costs when determining pricing, our margins and results of operations would be adversely affected. We depend on high utilization of our manufacturing capacity, a reduction of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and the results of our operations. An important factor in our success is the extent to which we are able to utilize the available capacity in our fabrication facilities. As many of our costs are fixed, a reduction in capacity utilization, as well as changes in other factors, such as reduced yield or unfavorable product mix, could reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our operating results. A number of factors and circumstances may reduce utilization rates, including periods of industry overcapacity, low levels of customer orders, operating inefficiencies, strategic evaluations and decisions by our Board related our overall business, divisions and business lines, mechanical failures and disruption of operations due to expansion or relocation of operations, power interruptions and fire, flood or other natural disasters or calamities. The potential delays and costs resulting from these factors and circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales comes from a relatively limited number of customers, the loss of which could adversely affect our financial results. Historically, we have relied on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our total revenue. If we were to lose key customers or if customers cease to place orders for our high-volume products or services, particularly our display products and services, our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, our arrangements with and reliance on key customers may make it less practicable to pursue certain opportunities with other potential new and existing customers. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, our ten largest customers accounted for 67%, 61% and 57% of our net sales, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2019, sales to Samsung Display represented 32.9% of the Companys net sales and 84.5% of our Display Solutions divisions net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2018, sales to Samsung Display represented 19.3% of the Companys net sales and 56.6% of our Display Solutions divisions net sales, and LG Display represented 13.3% of the Companys net sales and 38.9% of our Display Solutions divisions net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2017, sales to LG Display represented 15.6% of the Companys net sales and 50.6% of our Display Solutions divisions net sales. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers, especially our few largest customers, the loss of other major customers or a general curtailment in orders for our high-volume products or services within a short period of time could adversely affect our business. The average selling prices of our semiconductor products have at times declined rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profit. The semiconductor products we develop and sell are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices. From time to time, we have had to reduce our prices significantly to meet customer requirements, and we may be required to reduce our prices in the future. This would cause our gross profit to decrease. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, 20 Table of Contents reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profit. Our industry is highly competitive, and our ability to compete could be negatively impacted by a variety of factors. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and includes hundreds of companies, a number of which have achieved substantial market share within both our product categories and end markets. Current and prospective customers for our products and services evaluate our capabilities against the merits of our competitors. Some of our competitors are well established as independent companies and have substantially greater market share and manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell their products in certain of our end markets and with the internal semiconductor design and manufacturing capabilities of many of our significant customers. We expect to experience continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors and new entrants. Any consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product offerings and financial resources, further enhancing their competitive position. Our ability to compete will depend on a number of factors, including the following: our ability to offer cost-effective and high quality products and services on a timely basis using our technologies; our ability to accurately identify and respond to emerging technological trends and demand for product features and performance characteristics; our ability to continue to rapidly introduce new products that are accepted by the market; our ability to adopt or adapt to emerging industry standards; the number and nature of our competitors and competitiveness of their products and services in a given market; entrance of new competitors into our markets; our ability to enter the highly competitive power management market; and our ability to continue to offer in demand foundry services at competitive prices. Many of these factors are outside of our control. In the future, our competitors may replace us as a supplier to our existing or potential customers, and our customers may satisfy more of their requirements internally. As a result, we may experience declining revenues and results of operations. Changes in demand for consumer electronics in our end markets can impact our results of operations. Demand for our products will depend in part on the demand for various consumer electronics products, in particular, mobile phones and multimedia devices, digital televisions, flat panel displays, mobile PCs and digital cameras, which in turn depends on general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. If our customers fail to introduce new products that employ our products or component parts, demand for our products will suffer. To the extent that we cannot offset periods of reduced demand that may occur in these markets through greater penetration of these markets or reduction in our production and costs, our sales and gross profit may decline, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to achieve design-wins for our semiconductor products, we may lose the opportunity for sales to customers for a significant period of time and be unable to recoup our investments in our products. We expend considerable resources on winning competitive selection processes, known as design-wins, to develop semiconductor products for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically 21 Table of Contents lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. Once a customer designs a semiconductor into a product, that customer is likely to continue to use the same semiconductor or enhanced versions of that semiconductor from the same supplier across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning the product to incorporate a different semiconductor. If we fail to achieve initial design-wins in a customers qualification process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a number of products and for a lengthy period of time. This may cause us to be unable to recoup our investments in our semiconductor products, which would harm our business. We have lengthy and expensive design-to-mass production and manufacturing process development cycles that may cause us to incur significant expenses without realizing meaningful sales, the occurrence of which would harm our business. The cycle time from the design stage to mass production for some of our products is long and requires the investment of significant resources with many potential customers without any guarantee of sales. Our design-to-mass production cycle typically begins with a three-to-twelve month semiconductor development stage and test period followed by a three-to-twelve month end-product qualification period by our customers. The fairly lengthy front end of our sales cycle creates a risk that we may incur significant expenses but may be unable to realize meaningful sales. Moreover, prior to mass production, customers may decide to cancel their products or change production specifications, resulting in sudden changes in our product specifications, increasing our production time and costs. Failure to meet such specifications may also delay the launch of our products or result in lost sales. In addition, we collaborate and jointly develop certain process technologies and manufacturing process flows customized for certain of our Foundry Services Groups customers. To the extent that our Foundry Services Group customers fail to achieve market acceptance for their products, we may be unable to recoup our engineering resources commitment and our investment in process technology development, which would harm our business. Research and development investments may not yield profitable and commercially viable product and service offerings and thus will not necessarily result in increases in revenues for us. We invest significant resources in our research and development. Our research and development efforts, however, may not yield commercially viable products or enhance our services offerings. During each stage of research and development, there is a substantial risk that we will have to abandon a potential product or service offering that is no longer marketable and in which we have invested significant resources. In the event we are able to develop viable new products or service offerings, a significant amount of time will have elapsed between our investment in the necessary research and development effort and the receipt of any related revenues. We face numerous challenges relating to executing our growth strategy, and if we are unable to execute our growth strategy effectively, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Our growth strategy is to leverage our advanced analog and mixed-signal technology platform, continue to innovate and deliver new products and services, increase business with existing customers, broaden our customer base, aggressively grow our power business, drive execution excellence and focus on specialty process technologies. If we are unable to execute our growth strategy effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. Moreover, if our allocation of resources does not correspond with future demand for particular products, we could miss market opportunities and our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, and changes in the exchange rates of applicable currencies could impact our results of operations. Historically, a portion of our revenues and greater than the majority of our operating expenses and costs of sales have been denominated in non-U.S. currencies, principally the Korean won, and we expect that this will remain true in the future. Because we report our results of operations in US dollars, changes in the exchange rate between the Korean won and the US dollar could materially impact our reported results of operations and distort period to period comparisons. In particular, because of the difference in the amount of our consolidated revenues and expenses that are in US dollars relative to Korean won, a depreciation in the US dollar relative to the Korean won could result in a material increase in reported costs relative to revenues, and therefore could cause our profit margins and operating income to appear to decline materially, particularly relative to prior periods. The converse is true if the US dollar were to appreciate relative to the Korean won. For example, foreign currency fluctuations had a favorable impact on our reported profit margins and operating income from operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 due to a relatively weaker Korean won during the period. Moreover, our foreign currency gain or loss would be affected by changes in the exchange rate between the Korean won and the US dollar as a substantial portion of non-cash translation gain or loss is associated with the intercompany long-term loans to our Korean subsidiary, which is denominated in US dollars. As of December 31, 2019, the outstanding intercompany loan balance including accrued interests between our Korean subsidiary and our Dutch subsidiary was $686.5 million. Our Dutch subsidiary uses the US dollar as their functional currency. As a result of foreign currency fluctuations, it could be more difficult to detect underlying trends in our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that fluctuations in currency exchange rates cause our results of operations to differ from our expectations or the expectations of our investors, the trading price of our common stock or the price of the Exchangeable Notes or the 2021 Notes (each as defined below) could be adversely affected. From time to time, we may engage in exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Our Korean subsidiary enters into foreign currency forward and zero cost collar contracts in order to mitigate a portion of the impact of US dollar-Korean won exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. These foreign currency forward and zero cost collar contracts typically require us to sell specified notional amounts in US dollars and provide us the option to sell specified notional amounts in US dollars during successive months to our counterparty in exchange for Korean won at specified exchange rates. Obligations under these foreign currency forward and zero cost collar contracts must be cash collateralized if our exposure exceeds certain specified thresholds. These forward and zero cost collar contracts may be terminated by the counterparty in a number of circumstances, including if our long-term debt rating falls below B-/B3 or if our total cash and cash equivalents is less than $30 million at the end of a fiscal quarter. We cannot assure that any hedging technique we implement will be effective. If our hedging activities are not effective, changes in currency exchange rates may have a more significant impact on our results of operations. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFactors Affecting our Results of Operations for further details. The loss of our key employees would materially adversely affect our business, and we may not be able to attract or retain the technical or management employees necessary to compete in our industry. Our key executives have substantial experience and have made significant contributions to our business, and our continued success is dependent upon the retention of our key management executives. The loss of such key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled technical and managerial personnel. We do not know whether we will be able to retain all of these employees as we continue to pursue our business strategy. The loss of the services of key employees, especially our key design and technical personnel, or our inability to retain, attract and motivate qualified design and technical personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This could hinder our research and product development programs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. 23 Table of Contents If we encounter future labor problems, we may fail to deliver our products and services in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. As of December 31, 2019, 1, 449 employees, or approximately 59% of our employees, were represented by the MagnaChip Semiconductor Labor Union. We can offer no assurance that any issues with the labor union and other employees will be resolved favorably for us in the future, that we will not experience work stoppages or other labor problems in future years or that we will not incur significant expenses related to such issues. We may incur costs to engage in future business combinations or strategic investments, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of those transactions. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to enter into business combinations, investments, joint ventures and other strategic alliances with other companies in order to maintain and grow revenue and market presence as well as to provide us with access to technology, products and services. Any such transaction would be accompanied by risks that may harm our business, such as difficulties in assimilating the operations, personnel and products of an acquired business or in realizing the projected benefits, disruption of our ongoing business, potential increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities and charges if the acquired company or assets are later determined to be worth less than the amount paid for them in an earlier original acquisition. In addition, our indebtedness may restrict us from making acquisitions that we may otherwise wish to pursue. The failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business. The manufacture of semiconductors involves highly complex processes that require precision, a highly regulated and sterile environment and specialized equipment. Defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can prevent us from achieving acceptable yields in the manufacturing of our products or those of our Foundry Services Group customers, which could lead to higher costs, a loss of customers or delay in market acceptance of our products. Slight impurities or defects in the photomasks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause significant difficulties, particularly in connection with the production of a new product, the adoption of a new manufacturing process or any expansion of our manufacturing capacity and related transitions. We may also experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields as a result of, among other things, transferring production to other facilities, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies. Yields below our target levels can negatively impact our gross profit and may cause us to eliminate underperforming products. We rely on a number of independent subcontractors and the failure of any of these independent subcontractors to perform as required could adversely affect our operating results. A substantial portion of our net sales are derived from semiconductor devices assembled in packages or on film. The packaging and testing of semiconductors require technical skill and specialized equipment. For the portion of packaging and testing that we outsource, we use subcontractors located in Korea, China, and Taiwan; however, we expect that we will only use the Korean and Chinese subcontractors for 2020. We rely on these subcontractors to package and test our devices with acceptable quality and yield levels. We could be adversely affected by political disorders, labor disruptions, public health issues (including viral outbreaks such as the COVID-19 coronavirus), and natural disasters where our subcontractors are located. If our semiconductor packagers and test service providers experience problems in packaging and testing our semiconductor devices, experience prolonged quality or yield problems, experience shutdowns or delays associated with public health issues (such as those associated with the COVID-19 coronavirus), or decrease the capacity available to us, our operating results could be adversely affected. We cooperate with independent foundries to produce certain advanced technology Display Solutions products, and the failure of such independent foundries to satisfy our demand could materially disrupt our business. We use independent foundry services for certain of our OLED Display Solutions products that require more advanced technology than is available in our fabrication facilities. Silicon wafer production at these facilities is 24 Table of Contents allocated solely by our vendors and beyond our direct control. Therefore, any disruption in wafer supply form these vendors could have a material impact on our revenue and results of operations. We depend on successful parts and materials procurement for our manufacturing processes, and a shortage or increase in the price of these materials could interrupt our operations and result in a decline of revenues and results of operations. We procure materials and electronic and mechanical components from international sources and original equipment manufacturers. We use a wide range of parts and materials in the production of our semiconductors, including silicon, processing chemicals, processing gases, precious metals and electronic and mechanical components, some of which, such as silicon wafers, are specialized raw materials that are generally only available from a limited number of suppliers. If demand increases or supply decreases for any reason, the costs of our raw materials could significantly increase. For example, worldwide supplies of silicon wafers, an important raw material for the semiconductors we manufacture, were constrained in recent years due to an increased demand for silicon. We from time to time may enter into multi-year agreements, which specify future quantities and pricing of materials to be supplied by the vendors of these materials; however, this option may not be available to us and we cannot assure that supply increases will match demand increases. If we cannot obtain adequate materials in a timely manner or on favorable terms for the manufacture of our products, revenues and results of operations will decline. Compliance with regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain raw materials used in manufacturing our products. The SEC, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, adopted disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products containing certain minerals that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures pertaining to a manufacturers efforts regarding the source of such minerals. These conflict minerals are commonly found in metals used in the manufacture of semiconductors. Manufacturers are also required to disclose their efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from them. The implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of metals used in the manufacture of our products. We may also incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as free of conflict materials, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. We face warranty claims, product return, litigation and liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Our semiconductors are incorporated into a number of end products, and our business is exposed to product return, warranty and product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Although we maintain insurance for product liability claims, the amount and scope of our insurance may not be adequate to cover a product liability claim that is asserted against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity affecting our customers. Our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim. We also may suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our customers products. Further, if our products are delivered with impurities or defects, we could incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, and our credibility and the markets acceptance of our products could be harmed. 25 Table of Contents We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences as a result of changes in, or differences in the interpretation of, applicable tax laws, including the recently enacted tax reform legislation in the United States. Our companys organizational structure was created in part based on certain interpretations and conclusions regarding various tax laws, including withholding tax and other tax laws of applicable jurisdictions. Our interpretations and conclusions regarding tax laws, however, are not binding on any taxing authority and, if these interpretations and conclusions are incorrect, if our business were to be operated in a way that rendered us ineligible for tax exemptions or caused us to become subject to incremental tax, or if the authorities were to change, modify or have a different interpretation of the relevant tax laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences, and the anticipated benefits of our organizational structure could be materially impaired. Our companys organizational structure and other tax positions are subject to review by tax authorities in the local and other jurisdictions where we operate our business. In December 2017, H.R. 1, originally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, was enacted in the US (the Tax Reform). The Tax Reform reduces the US federal statutory rate to 21.0% from 35.0% effective January 1, 2018. The Tax Reform contains several key provisions that affect our assessment of deferred taxes, which include the remeasurement of deferred taxes, recognition of liabilities for taxes on mandatory deemed repatriation and certain other foreign income, and reassessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets. For further information regarding the impact of the Tax Reform, see