Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Report on Form 10-Q and other written and oral statements made from time to time by us may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as expects, plans, will, forecasts, projects, intends, estimates, and other words of similar meaning. One can identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address our growth strategy, financial results and product and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ from our forward looking statements. These factors may include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. Information regarding market and industry statistics contained in this Report is included based on information available to us that we believe is accurate. It is generally based on industry and other publications that are not produced for purposes of securities offerings or economic analysis. We have not reviewed or included data from all sources, and cannot assure investors of the accuracy or completeness of the data included in this Report. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from these sources are subject to the same qualifications and the additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size, revenue and market acceptance of products and services. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement. As a result, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Recent Events During June 2012, we decided to discontinue our exploration and potential development of uranium and vanadium minerals business. We will focus our activities exclusively on our new business segment, which is in the business of acquiring, renovating, and selling real estate properties (primarily residential in nature) located within the areas of Southern California. We intend to sell such real estate within 10 to 12 months from the date of purchase. We may, from time to time, re-evaluate our business and continue to explore new strategic opportunities that may be divergent from our current business focus. Our objectives include the following: To purchase distressed single family homes, principally within Southern California, and renovate, and market its properties for resale; and To purchase distressed multi-unit residential real estate, and to renovate and operate as income producing property, generating cash flow and long-term capital appreciation. On October 1, 2012, our shareholders holding a majority of the voting capital voted and authorized us to (i) change our name to Marathon Patent Group, Inc. and (ii) to effectuate a Reverse Split of our common stock by a ratio of 3-for-2 within one year from the date of approval of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors approved the Name Change and the Reverse Split on October 1, 2012. Our Board of Directors determined the name Marathon Patent Group, Inc. better reflects the long-term strategy in exploring other opportunities and the identity of the Company going forward. We have not yet filed an amendment to our Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Nevada to either change our name or effectuate the Reverse Split. On June 11, 2012, we entered into the Rescission Agreement with Amicor and the Amicor Shareholders. Each of the Amicor Shareholders received shares of our common stock (and certain Amicor Shareholders also received warrants to purchase shares of our common stock) (collectively, the Shareholder Securities) pursuant to the Exchange Agreement dated as January 26, 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the Rescission Agreement, each of the Amicor Shareholders, with the exception of one, agreed to return the Shareholder Securities to us for cancellation and to enter into joint mutual releases with us. Furthermore, pursuant to the terms of the Rescission Agreement, George Glasier resigned from his position as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman; Kathleen Glasier resigned from her position as our Secretary, Michael Moore resigned from his position as our Chief Operating Officer and Vice President and each of David Andrews and Kyle Kimmerle resigned from their position as our directors. As a result of the foregoing, we cancelled 9,806,667 shares of our common stock and 4,800,000 warrants and terminated the mining leases entered into with certain of the Shareholders. Additionally, we paid an aggregate of $132,000 to Amicor Shareholders upon the execution of the Rescission Agreement. 22 Under the terms of the Rescission Agreement, the employment agreement with Mr. Glasier was terminated and Mr. Glasier acknowledged that all options, warrants and rights to acquire any shares of our common stock, whether vested or unvested, were terminated as of the date of the Rescission Agreement. On June 11, 2012, the Company and Pershing effected the exercise of the Option entered into in January 2012, through the assignment of Pershings wholly owned subsidiary, Acquisition Sub. As a result of the assignment, Acquisition Sub became a wholly owned subsidiary ours and we acquired all of Pershings uranium assets. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies affect the significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and present the financial statements of the Company and our wholly-owned subsidiary. In the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated. Development Stage Companies We are a development stage company. Activities during the development stage include organizing the business, raising capital and acquiring real estate properties. We are a development stage company with no revenues and no profits. We have not commenced significant operations and, in accordance with ASC Topic 915 Development Stage Entities, is considered a development stage company. Use of Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates made by management include, but are not limited to, the assumptions used to calculate fair value of warrants granted, common stock issued for services, and common stock issued in connection with an option agreement. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. ASC 820 establishes a common definition for fair value to be applied to existing US GAAP that require the use of fair value measurements which establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure about such fair value measurements. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Additionally, ASC 820 requires the use of valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. These inputs are prioritized below: Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data Level 3: Unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data, which require the use of the reporting entitys own assumptions. 23 The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash, prepaid expenses, accounts payable, and accrued expenses approximate their estimated fair market value based on the short-term maturity of this instrument. In addition, FASB ASC 825-10-25 Fair Value Option was effective for January 1, 2008. ASC 825-10-25 expands opportunities to use fair value measurements in financial reporting and permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation is accounted for based on the requirements of the Share-Based Payment Topic of ASC 718 which requires recognition in the consolidated financial statements of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments over the period the employee or director is required to perform the services in exchange for the award (presumptively, the vesting period). The ASC also requires measurement of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award based on the grant-date fair value of the award. Pursuant to ASC Topic 505-50, for share-based payments to consultants and other third-parties, compensation expense is determined at the measurement date. The expense is recognized over the vesting period of the award. Until the measurement date is reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain. The Company initially records compensation expense based on the fair value of the award at the reporting date. Real Estate Held for Sale Real estate held for sale consists of a residential property located in Southern California. Real estate held for sale is initially recorded at the lower of cost or estimated fair market value less the estimated cost to sell. After acquisition, costs incurred relating to the development and improvements of property are capitalized to the extent they do not cause the recorded value to exceed the net realizable value, whereas costs relating to holding and disposition of the property are expensed as incurred. After acquisition, real estate held for sale is analyzed periodically for changes in fair values and any subsequent write down is charged to impairment losses on real estate properties. Whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, management assesses the recoverability of its real estate by comparing the carrying amount with its fair value. The process involved in the determination of fair value requires estimates as to future events and market conditions. This estimation process may assume that we have the ability to dispose of our real estate properties in the ordinary course of business based on managements present plans and intentions. If management determines that the carrying value of a specific real estate investment is impaired, a write-down is recorded as a charge to current period operations. The evaluation process is based on estimates and assumptions and the ultimate outcome may be different. Long-Lived Assets We review for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable, pursuant to guidance established in ASC 360-10-35-15, Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. We recognize an impairment loss when the sum of expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. The amount of impairment is measured as the difference between the assets estimated fair value and its book value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Other accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by the FASB that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements upon adoption. 24 Results of Operations American Strategic Minerals Corporation business began on April 30, 2011 and accordingly, we had minimal operations for the prior period. We are still in our development stage and have generated no revenues to date. Three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 We incurred operating expenses of $1,809,126 and $5,150,853 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively. These expenses primarily consisted of general expenses, compensation, professional fees and consulting incurred in connection with the day to day operation of our business. The operating expenses consisted of the following: Three Months Ended September 30, 2012 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2012 Travel and related expenses $ 12,613 $ 93,404 Professional fees 79,608 449,811 Compensation and related taxes 1,556,790 2,479,182 Consulting fees 92,473 1,949,067 Other general and administrative 67,642 179,389 Total $ 1,809,126 $ 5,150,853 Travel and related expenses: Travel expenses were $12,613 and $93,404 during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 respectively. These expenses are in connection with conference campaign and business development related travel. Compensation expense and related taxes: Compensation expense includes salaries and stock-based compensation to our employees. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, compensation expense and related payroll taxes were $1,556,790 and $2,479,182, respectively, which is primarily attributable to stock based compensation of approximately $1.5 million and $2.3 million for the three and nine months period, respectively, in connection with warrant and option grants to our directors and officers during the period. Consulting fees: For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, we incurred consulting fees of $92,473, and $1,949,067, respectively, which is primarily attributable to stock based consulting expense of approximately $1.8 million during the nine month period in connection with warrant grants to consultants for consulting on strategic acquisitions and advice on capital restructuring during the period. Professional fees: For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, professional fees were $79,608 and $449,811, respectively, which includes fees incurred for audits and legal fees related to public company filing requirements. Other general and administrative expenses: For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 other general and administrative expenses were $67,642 and $179,389, respectively, which includes postage, general insurance, automobile, office supplies, utilities, rent expense and office expenses. Operating Loss from Continuing Operations We reported an operating loss from continuing operations of $1,809,126 and $5,150,853 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively. We reported an operating loss from continuing operations of $2,453 and $3,990 for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and for the period from inception (April 30, 2011) to September 30, 2011, respectively. The increase in operating loss was due to the increase in operating expenses described above. Other Income Total other income was $2,757 and $127,930 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively. On March 19, 2012, we entered into an agreement with California Gold, pursuant to which we agreed to provide California Gold with a geological review on or prior to March 30, 2012, of our certain uranium properties in consideration for $125,000. 25 Discontinued Operations During late June 2012, we decided to discontinue our exploration and potential development of uranium and vanadium minerals business and prior periods have been restated in our consolidated financial statements and related footnotes to conform to this presentation. We will focus our activities on our new business segment, which is in the business of acquisition, renovating, and selling real estate properties. The following table indicates selected financial data of the Companys discontinued operations of its uranium and vanadium minerals business. For the Nine Months September 30, 2012 Period from inception (April 30, 2011) to September 30, 2011 Revenues $ - $ - Cost of sales - - Gross profit - - Operating and other non-operating expenses (1,426,846 ) - Loss from discontinued operations $ (1,426,846 ) $ - Net loss We reported a net loss of approximately $6.4 million or ($(0.18) per common shares - basic and diluted and approximately $1.9 million or $(0.06) per common share - basic and diluted, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 and a net loss of approximately $2,500 and $4,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and for the period from inception (April 30, 2011) to September 30, 2011, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is the ability of a company to generate funds to support its current and future operations, satisfy its obligations, and otherwise operate on an ongoing basis. At September 30, 2012, we had a cash balance of approximately $1.5 million and working capital of approximately $1.7 million. We have been funding our operations through the sale of our common stock through private placements for operating capital purposes. We may be required to raise additional funds, particularly if we are unable to generate positive cash flow as a result of our operations. We estimate that based on current plans and assumptions, that our available cash is sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements under our present operating expectations for up to 12 months. We presently have no other alternative source of working capital. We may not have sufficient working capital to fund the expansion of our operations and to provide working capital necessary for our ongoing operations and obligations after 12 months. We have not generated revenues to support our daily operations from the inception of development stage. We may need to raise significant additional capital to fund our future operating expenses, pay our obligations, and grow our Company. We do not anticipate we will be profitable in 2012. Therefore our future operations will be dependent on our ability to secure additional financing. Financing transactions may include the issuance of equity or debt securities, obtaining credit facilities, or other financing mechanisms. The trading price of our common stock could make it more difficult to obtain financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities. Even if we are able to raise the funds required, it is possible that we could incur unexpected costs and expenses, or experience unexpected cash requirements that would force us to seek alternative financing. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity or debt securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. The inability to obtain additional capital may restrict our ability to grow and may reduce our ability to continue to conduct business operations. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we will likely be required to curtail our marketing and development plans and possibly cease our operations. 26 Operating Activities We have not generated positive cash flows from operating activities. For the nine month period ended September 30, 2012, net cash flows used in operating activities was $1,163,389 and was primarily attributable to our net loss of $6,439,273, adjusted for the add-back of non-cash items such as stock based compensation of $4,190,200, impairment of mining rights and assets of discontinued operations of $1,286,248 and other income of $125,000, and total changes in assets and liabilities of $65,068 primarily attributable to an increase in prepaid expenses of $54,516, increase in deposits of $235,660, and increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $201,193. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities were $1,993,955 in connection with acquisition of mineral rights of $325,000, investment in note receivable of $147,708 and acquisition of real estate property including capitalized improvements of $1,521,247 during the nine months ended September 30, 2012. Financing Activities Net cash flows provided by financing activities were $4,553,991 for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. We received net proceeds from the sale of our securities of $5,768,965 offset by payment on notes payable of $1,082,974 and payments of $132,000 in connection with the rescission agreement. Contractual Obligations We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the tables, in order to assist in the review of this information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operation, and cash flows. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2012, and the effect these obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years 5 Years + Contractual Obligations: Uranium lease agreements 319,500 45,700 163,900 93,900 16,000 Royalty agreement minimum payments 287,500 42,500 157,500 87,500 - Total Contractual Obligations $ 607,000 $ 88,200 $ 321,400 $ 181,400 $ 16,000 Off-balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any other financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the payment obligations of any third parties. We have not entered into any derivative contracts that are indexed to our shares and classified as stockholders equity or that are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. 27