ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended as a review of significant factors affecting our financial condition and results of operations for the periods indicated. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes presented herein. In addition to historical information, the following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ significantly from those expressed, implied or anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors discussed herein and any other periodic reports filed and to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report and other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our managements assumptions. Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, outlook, forecast, would, could, should, project, intend, plan, continue, sustain, on track, believe, seek, estimate, anticipate, may, assume, and variations of such words and similar expressions are often used to identify such forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward- looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in our reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. Business of the Company We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on February 23, 2010 under the name Verve Ventures, Inc. On December 7, 2011, we changed our name to American Strategic Minerals Corporation and were engaged in exploration and potential development of uranium and vanadium minerals business. In June 2012, we discontinued our minerals business and began to invest in real estate properties in Southern California. In October 2012, we discontinued our real estate business when our former CEO joined the firm and we commenced our IP licensing operations, at which time the Companys name was changed to Marathon Patent Group, Inc. On November 1, 2017, we entered into a merger agreement with Global Bit Ventures, Inc. (GBV), which is focused on mining digital assets. We have since purchased our cryptocurrency mining machines and established a data center in Canada to mine digital assets. Following the merger, we intended to add GBVs existing technical capabilities and digital asset miners and expand our activities in the mining of new digital assets, while at the same time harvesting the value of our remaining IP assets. On June 28, 2018, the board has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to allow the Amended Merger Agreement to expire on its current termination date of June 28, 2018 without further negotiation or extension. The Board approved to issue 3,000,000 shares of our common stock to GBV as a termination fee for canceling the proposed merger between the two companies. The fair value of the common stocks was $2,850,000. Recent Developments Patent Purchase On January 11, 2018, the Company entered into a Patent Rights Purchase and Assignment Agreement (the Agreement), with XpresSpa Group, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (the Seller) and Crypto Currency Patent Holdings Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (CCPHC). Pursuant to the Agreement, the Seller agreed to irrevocably assign, sell, grant, transfer and convey, and CCPHC agreed to accept and acquire, the exclusive right, title and interest in and to certain patents owned by the Seller (Assigned IP), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement. As consideration for the Assigned IP, the Seller shall receive (i) payment in the amount of $250,000 from CCPHC and (ii) 250,000 shares of common stock of the Company, par value $0.0001 per share (the Consideration Shares), with piggyback registration rights. The Consideration Shares were issued by the Company to the Seller, subject to the terms and conditions of a lock-up agreement. The fair value of the 250,000 shares was $960,000 and was based upon the closing price of the Companys common stock. 30 As a condition to the Agreement, the Seller agreed to enter into a lock-up agreement with the Company, which lock-up agreement is included as an exhibit to the Agreement (the Lock-up Agreement). Pursuant to the Lock-up Agreement, the Seller shall not directly or indirectly offer, sell, pledge or transfer, or otherwise dispose of, the Consideration Shares for a period of 180 days commencing on January 11, 2018 and ending on July 11, 2018; provided, however, upon the effective date of the registration for resale of the Consideration Shares, and on each day thereafter, one twentieth (1/20) of the Consideration Shares shall be released from the restrictions contained in the Lock-up Agreement and may be freely sold, transferred, traded or otherwise disposed of. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Consideration Shares, in whole or in part, are not registered for resale on the 6-month anniversary of the date of issuance of the Consideration Shares (Six-Month Date), the holders thereof may sell, transfer, trade or otherwise dispose of one twentieth (1/20) of the Consideration Shares on the Six-Month Date and on each day thereafter. In addition, the Company agreed to issue 25,000 shares of the Companys common stock to Andrew Kennedy Lang, one of the named inventors of the patents, in exchange for consulting services, and 50,000 shares of the Companys common stock to another individual in exchange for consulting services, in connection with the acquisition of the Assigned IP. The fair value of these shares was $278,750 and was based upon the closing price of the Companys common stock on date of agreement. The Company recorded the fair value of these shares as a component of compensation and related taxes expense. Lease and Purchase of Digital Asset Mining Servers On February 7, 2018, Marathon Crypto Mining, Inc. (MCM), a Nevada corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an agreement to acquire 1,400 Bitmains Antminer S9 miners (Antminer S9s). On February 12, 2018, in connection with the intended mining operations of MCM, the Company assumed a lease contract dated November 11, 2017 (the Lease Agreement) by and between 9349-0001 Quebec Inc. (the Lessor) and Blocespace Inc., formerly known as Cryptoespace Inc. (the Lessee). Pursuant to the Lease Agreement, among other things, the Lessee leases a building of 26,700 square feet (the Property) in Quebec, Canada, for an initial term of five (5) years (the Term), commencing on December 1, 2017 and terminating on November 30, 2022. The Lessee shall pay a monthly rent of $10,012.50 plus tax, or an annual rent of $120,150.00 plus tax (Yearly Rent). At the signing of the Lease Agreement, the Lessee paid the Lessor a deposit equal to the Yearly Rent which amount will be dispersed during the Term as set forth in the Lease Agreement. The Lessee assigned the Lease Agreement to MCM pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the Assignment) by and between the Company and the Lessees parent company, Bloctechnologies Canada Inc. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Assignment, MCM agreed to observe all the covenants and conditions of the Lease Agreement, including the payment of all rents due. The Company shall be responsible for all necessary capital expenditures in connection with capital improvements to the Property to set up MCMs mining operations. The 1,400 Antminer S9s were delivered to the Property and installation commenced on or about March 7, 2018, with the commencement of digital asset mining shortly thereafter. GBV Merger Termination On April 3, 2018, the Company and GBV entered into the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Amended Merger Agreement), which amends certain terms, among others, in the Merger Agreement, as follows: (i) the Outside Closing Date, as amended, shall be further extended to ninety (90) days from April 3, 2018, subject to consecutive 30-day extensions upon mutual written consent of the Parties; (ii) the Company Shareholders shall receive 70,000,000 Parent Common Shares (reduced from 126,674,557 Parent Common Shares) on a fully diluted basis, which include any Parent Common Shares underlying the Parents Series C Preferred Stock issuable in lieu of the Parent Common Shares at the election of the Company Shareholders who would own more than 2.49% of the Parent Common Shares as a result of the Merger; and (iii) in the event that the Merger fails to close by August 9, 2018 or the Companys Shareholders vote not to approve the Merger, the Parent will issue to the Company, an aggregate of 3,000,000 Parent Common Shares to reimburse GBV for its costs and expenses. All capitalized terms otherwise not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Amended Merger Agreement. On July 3, 2018, the board has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to allow the Amended Merger Agreement to expire on its current termination date of June 28, 2018 without further negotiation or extension. The Board approved to issue 3,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock to GBV as a termination fee for the Company canceling the proposed merger between the two companies. Feinberg Litigation On March 27, 2018, Jeffrey Feinberg, purportedly joined by the Jeffrey L. Feinberg Personal Trust and the Jeffrey L. Feinberg Family Trust, filed a complaint against the Company and certain of its former officers and directors. The complaint was filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York. The plaintiffs purported to state claims under Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the federal Securities Act of 1933 and common law claims for actual fraud and fraudulent concealment, constructive fraud, and negligent misrepresentation, seeking unspecified money damages (including punitive damages), as well as costs and attorneys fees, and equitable or injunctive relief. On June 15, 2018, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss all claims asserted in the complaint and, on July 27, 2018, the plaintiffs filed an opposition to that motion. The court heard argument on the motion and, on January 15, 2019, the court granted the motion to dismiss, allowing 30 days for the filing of an amended complaint. On February 15, 2019, Jeffrey Feinberg, individually and as trustee of the Jeffrey L. Feinberg Personal Trust, and Terrence K. Ankner, as trustee of the Jeffrey L. Feinberg Family Trust, filed an amended complaint that purports to state the same claims and seeks the same relief sought in the original complaint. Defendants have not yet responded to the amended complaint. 31 Ramirez Litigation On July 20, 2018, Tony Ramirez filed a complaint against the Company and certain of its former directors. The complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Mr. Ramirez alleged that he was a shareholder of the Company and purported to assert a single claim under Section 14(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder. The parties entered into a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release and the case was voluntarily dismissed with prejudice on December 17, 2018. Amazon Litigation As part of the cancellation of certain indebtedness owed to Fortress Investment Group, LLC, we transferred ownership of various patents, including U.S. Patent No. 7,177,798, commonly referred to as Patent 798. Fortress created a new Special Purpose Entity, CF Dynamic Advances LLC, in which we own a 30% interest. In May 2018, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and CF Dynamic Advances LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York, which alleges, among other things, that Alexa Voice Software and Alexa enabled devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,177,798, entitled Natural Language Interface Using Constrained Intermediate Dictionary of Results. The complaint seeks an injunction, montetary damages, an ongoing royalty, pre- and post-judgment interest, attorneys fees, and costs. If plaintiffs are successful, and if the recoveries or settlement proceeds are sufficient following litigation expenses and recovery of amounts due in connection with the cancelled loan, the special purpose entity could be entitled to a portion of the net proceeds. There can be no assurance that the plaintiff will be successful or that any recoveries will exceed amounts due under the debt settlement arrangements or that our 30% interest in the special purpose entity will have any value even if the plaintiffs are successful in their case against Amazon. Other than as disclosed herein, we know of no other material, active or pending legal proceedings against us, nor are we involved as a plaintiff in any material proceedings or pending litigation other than in the normal course of business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our critical accounting policies and significant estimates are detailed in our 2017 Annual Report. Our critical accounting policies and significant estimates have not changed from those previously disclosed in our 2017 Annual Report, except for those accounting subjects mentioned in the section of the notes to the consolidated financial statements titled Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncements. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP and present the financial statements of the Company and our wholly-owned and majority owned subsidiaries. In the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated. Use of Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates made by management include, but are not limited to, estimating the useful lives of patent assets, the assumptions used to calculate fair value of warrants and options granted, goodwill and intangible assets impairment, realization of long-lived assets, valuation of Clouding IP earn out liability, deferred income taxes, unrealized tax positions and business combination accounting. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue under ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The core principle of the new revenue standard is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The following five steps are applied to achieve that core principle: Step 1: Identify the contract with the customer Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract Step 3: Determine the transaction price Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 32 Step 5: Recognize revenue when the Company satisfies a performance obligation In order to identify the performance obligations in a contract with a customer, a company must assess the promised goods or services in the contract and identify each promised good or service that is distinct. A performance obligation meets ASC 606s definition of a distinct good or service (or bundle of goods or services) if both of the following criteria are met: The customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer (i.e., the good or service is capable of being distinct), and the entitys promise to transfer the good or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract (i.e., the promise to transfer the good or service is distinct within the context of the contract). If a good or service is not distinct, the good or service is combined with other promised goods or services until a bundle of goods or services is identified that is distinct. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer. The consideration promised in a contract with a customer may include fixed amounts, variable amounts, or both. When determining the transaction price, an entity must consider the effects of all of the following: Variable consideration Constraining estimates of variable consideration The existence of a significant financing component in the contract Noncash consideration Consideration payable to a customer Variable consideration is included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. The transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis. The transaction price allocated to each performance obligation is recognized when that performance obligation is satisfied, at a point in time or over time as appropriate. Providing computing power in crypto asset transaction verification services is an output of the Companys ordinary activities. The provision of computing power is the only performance obligation in the Companys contracts with pool operators. The transaction consideration the Company receives, if any, is noncash consideration, which the Company measures at fair value on the date received, which is not materially different than the fair value at contract inception. The consideration is all variable. Because it is not probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue will not occur, the consideration is constrained until the Company successfully places a block (by being the first to solve an algorithm) and the Company receives confirmation of the consideration it will receive, at which time revenue is recognized. There is no significant financing component in these transactions. Fair value of the digital asset award received is determined using the average U.S. dollar spot rate of the related digital currency at the time of receipt. Expenses associated with running the digital currency mining business, such as rent and electricity cost are also recorded as cost of revenues. Depreciation on digital currency mining equipment is recorded as a component of costs and expenses. Accounting for Acquisitions In the normal course of its business, the Company makes acquisitions of patent assets and may also make acquisitions of businesses. With respect to each such transaction, the Company evaluates facts of the transaction and follows the guidelines prescribed in accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations to determine the proper accounting treatment for each such transaction and then records the transaction in accordance with the conclusions reached in such analysis. The Company performs such analysis with respect to each material acquisition within the consolidated group of entities. Impairment of Long-lived Assets Management reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Based on its reviews, management determined that its crypto-currency machines were impaired by a total of $2,222,688 based upon an assessment as of December 31, 2018, including consideration of the decline in bitcoin values which occurred commencing in late December 2017 and into 2018. 33 Fair Value Measurement The Company measures at fair value certain of its financial and non-financial assets and liabilities by using a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, essentially an exit price, based on the highest and best use of the asset or liability. The levels of the fair value hierarchy are: Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data Level 3: Unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data, which require the use of the reporting entitys own assumptions. The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheet for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued expenses, approximate their estimated fair market value based on the short-term maturity of these instruments. The carrying value of notes payable and other long-term liabilities approximate fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to the Company. Financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety within the fair value hierarchy based on the lowest level of input that is significant to their fair value measurement. The Company measures the fair value of its marketable securities by taking into consideration valuations obtained from third-party pricing sources. The pricing services utilize industry standard valuation models, including both income and market-based approaches, for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly, to estimate fair value. These inputs included reported trades of and broker-dealer quotes on the same or similar securities, issuer credit spreads, benchmark securities and other observable inputs. Stock-based Compensation The Company expenses stock-based compensation to employees over the requisite service period based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the awards and forfeiture rates. For stock-based compensation awards to non-employees, the Company remeasures the fair value of the non-employee awards at each reporting period prior to vesting and finally at the vesting date of the award. Changes in the estimated fair value of these non-employee awards are recognized as compensation expense in the period of change. The Company estimates the fair value of stock options grants using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based awards represent managements best estimates and involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. Recent Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 We generated revenues of $1.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $0.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2018, this represented an increase of $1.0 million or 201%. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 were derived primarily from cryptocurrency mining. Direct cost of revenues during the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 amounted to approximately $3.4 million and $3.5 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2018, this represented a decrease of $0.1 million or 3%. Direct costs of revenue include depreciation and amortization expenses of the cryptocurrency mining machines and patents, contingent payments to patent enforcement legal costs, patent enforcement advisors and inventors as well as various non-contingent costs associated with enforcing the Companys patent rights and otherwise in developing and entering into settlement and licensing agreements that generate the Companys revenue. We incurred other operating expenses of $10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and $11.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2018, this represented a decrease of $945,315 or 8%. These expenses primarily consisted of compensation to our officers, directors and employees, professional fees, impairment of the patent and long-lived assets and consulting incurred in connection with the day-to-day operation of our business. 34 The operating expenses consisted of the following: Total Other Operating Expenses For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Compensation and related taxes (1) $ 1,984,301 $ 4,362,371 Consulting fees (2) 639,094 537,695 Professional fees (3) 1,216,820 2,797,648 Other general and administrative (4) 1,374,047 831,001 Patent Impairment (5) - 2,475,149 Goodwill impairment (6) - 228,401 Impairment of mining equipment (7) 2,222,688 - Break-up fee - issuance of shares to GBV (8) 2,850,000 - Total $ 10,286,950 $ 11,232,265 Non-cash other operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 include non-cash other operating expenses totaling $39,053. Non-cash operating expenses consisted of the following: Non-Cash Other Operating Expenses For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Compensation and related taxes (1) $ 39,053 $ 2,067,719 Consulting fees (2) - (91,228 ) Professional fees (3) - 325 Other general and administrative (4) - 42,860 Patent Impairment (5) - 2,475,149 Goodwill impairment (6) 228,401 Total $ 39,053 $ 4,723,226 (1) Compensation expense and related taxes: Compensation expense includes cash compensation and related payroll taxes and benefits, and non-cash equity compensation expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, compensation expense and related payroll taxes were $2.0 million and $4.4 million, a decrease of $2.4 million or 55% over the comparable periods in 2017. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized non-cash employee and board equity-based compensation of $39,053 and $2.1 million for year ended December 31, 2017, respectively. (2) Consulting fees: For the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we incurred consulting fees of $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively, an increase of $0.1 million or 19% over the comparable periods in 2017. Consulting fees include both cash and non-cash related consulting fees primarily for investor relations and public relations services as well as other consulting services. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized non-cash equity-based consulting credit of $91,228. (3) Professional fees: For the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, professional fees were $1.2 million and $2.8 million, respectively, a decrease of $1.6 million or 57% over the comparable periods in 2017. Professional fees primarily reflect the costs of professional outside accounting fees, legal fees and audit fees. (4) Other general and administrative expenses: For the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, other general and administrative expenses were $1.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively, an increase of $0.5 million or 65% over the comparable periods in 2017. General and administrative expenses reflect the other non-categorized operating costs of the Company and include expenses related to being a public company, rent, insurance, technology and other expenses incurred to support the operations of the Company. (5) Patent impairment: For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company took an impairment charge of the carrying value of the Companys Clouding portfolio patents based on changes in the expected timing of proceeds from the Clouding portfolio in the amount of $2.5 million. (6) Goodwill impairment: For the years ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a loss on the impairment of goodwill in the amounts of $228,401. (7) Impairment of mining equipment: For the years ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded a loss on the impairment of mining equipment in the amounts of $2.2 million. 35 (8) Break-up fee issuance of shares to GBV: For the years ended December 31, 2018, the Board approved to issue 3,000,000 shares of our common stock to Global Bit Ventures, Inc as a termination fee for canceling the proposed merger between the two companies. The fair value of the common stocks was $2.9 million. Operating Loss We reported operating loss from continuing operations of $12.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and operating loss of $14.2 million, for the year ended December 31, 2017. Other Expenses Total other expenses were $0.7 million and $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The changes were mainly due to the interest expense accrued related to the outstanding notes and amortization of debt discount related to the notes conversions, and change in fair value of the warrant liability which resulting from our lower stock price. Net Loss Available to Common Shareholders We reported net loss of $12.8 million and $31.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that it will continue as a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets, and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. As reflected in the consolidated financial statements, the Company had and accumulated deficit of approximately $102.1 million at December 31, 2018, a net loss of approximately $12.8 million and approximately $8.2 million net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2018. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Liquidity is the ability of a company to generate funds to support its current and future operations, satisfy its obligations, and otherwise operate on an ongoing basis. At December 31, 2018, the Companys cash and cash equivalents balances totaled $2.6 million compared to $14.9 million at December 31, 2017. Net working capital decreased by $6.6 million, to $0.7 million at December 31, 2018 from $7.4 million at December 31, 2017. Cash used in operating activities was $8.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 and cash used in operating activities of $10.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. Cash used in investing activities was $4.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 and cash provided by investing activities of $7,788 for the year ended December 31, 2017. Cash provided by financing activities was $0 during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to cash provided by financing activities in the amount of $20.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 resulted from proceeds from issuance of notes payable, the sale of common stock issued pursuant to an ATM offering, offset by payments made for notes payable. Based on our current revenue and profit projections, we are uncertain that our existing cash will be sufficient to fund its operations through at least the next twelve months, raising substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue operating as a going concern. If we do not meet our revenue and profit projections or the business climate turns negative, then we will need to: raise additional funds to support our operations; provided, however, there is no assurance that we will be able to raise such additional funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing securities, existing stockholders may be diluted; and review strategic alternatives. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations or other business activities or obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements None.