Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Report on Form 10-Q and other written and oral statements made from time to time by us may contain so-called forward-looking statements, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as expects, plans, will, forecasts, projects, intends, estimates, and other words of similar meaning. One can identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address our growth strategy, financial results and product and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ from our forward looking statements. These factors may include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. Information regarding market and industry statistics contained in this Report is included based on information available to us that we believe is accurate. It is generally based on industry and other publications that are not produced for purposes of securities offerings or economic analysis. We have not reviewed or included data from all sources, and cannot assure investors of the accuracy or completeness of the data included in this Report. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from these sources are subject to the same qualifications and the additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size, revenue and market acceptance of products and services. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement. As a result, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Recent Events On November 25, 2011, our board of directors authorized a 1.362612612 for one forward split in the form of a dividend, whereby an additional 0.362612612 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Common Stock), were issued for each one share of Common Stock held by each shareholder of record on December 9, 2011. All share amounts referenced in this Current Report on Form 10-Q have been adjusted to reflect the number of shares of Common Stock on a post-dividend/post-split basis. On December 7, 2011, we filed an amendment to our articles of incorporation in order to (i) change our name to American Strategic Minerals Corporation from Verve Ventures, Inc., (ii) increase the authorized capital stock of the Company to 250,000,000 shares, consisting of 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 50,000,000 shares of Blank Check Preferred Stock, and (iii) change the par value of the capital stock of the Company to $0.0001 per share from $0.001 per share. The Share Exchange On January 26, 2012, we entered into a Share Exchange Agreement (the Exchange Agreement) with American Strategic Minerals Corporation, a Colorado corporation (Amicor) and the shareholders of Amicor (the Amicor Shareholders). Upon closing of the transaction contemplated under the Exchange Agreement (the Share Exchange), on January 26, 2012, the Amicor Shareholders (nine persons) transferred all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Amicor to the Company in exchange for an aggregate of 10,000,000 shares of the common stock of the Company. Such exchange caused Amicor to become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Additionally, as further consideration for entering into the Exchange Agreement, certain Amicor Shareholders received ten-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares of the Companys Common Stock with an exercise price of 0.50 per share (the Share Exchange Warrants). The Share Exchange Warrants may be exercised on a cashless basis after 12 months from the date of issuance in the absence of an effective registration statement covering the resale of the shares of Common Stock underlying the Share Exchange Warrants. Prior to the acquisition of Amicor by the Company, Amicor acquired certain mining and mineral rights from the Amicor Shareholders and is primarily involved in uranium exploration and development, as further described herein. 28 On January 26, 2012, contemporaneously with the Exchange Agreement, we also entered into an Option Agreement (the Option Agreement) with Pershing Gold Corporation (formerly Sagebrush Gold Ltd.), a Nevada corporation (Pershing) pursuant to which we obtained the option (the Pershing Option) to acquire certain uranium exploration rights and properties held by Pershing (the Pershing Properties), as further described herein. In consideration for issuance of the Pershing Option, we issued to Pershing (i) a $1,000,000 promissory note payable in installments upon satisfaction of certain conditions (the Note), expiring six months following issuance and (ii) 10,000,000 shares of our Common Stock (collectively, the Option Consideration). Pursuant to the terms of the Note, upon the closing of a private placement in which the Company receives gross proceeds of at least $5,000,000 (within six months of the closing of the Exchange Agreement), then the Company shall repay $500,000 under the Note. Additionally, upon the closing of a private placement in which the Company receives gross proceeds of at least an additional $1,000,000 (within six months of the closing of the Exchange Agreement), the Company shall pay the outstanding balance under the Note. The Note does not bear interest. The Option is exercisable, in whole or in part, at an exercise price of Ten Dollars ($10.00) for any or all of the Pershing Properties. We amended the Option on April 24, 2012 to extend its exercise date to May 15, 2012 and amended it again on May 2, 2012 to extend its exercise date to June 15, 2012. In the event the Company does not exercise the Pershing Option, Pershing will retain all of the Option Consideration. On January 26, 2012, in conjunction with the closing of the Private Placement (as described further herein), the Company paid $500,000 towards the Note. The Companys intends to undertake additional investigation concerning the Pershing Properties prior to making a determination to exercise the Option, and to conduct further due diligence. Accordingly there can be no assurance the Company will acquire any or all of the Pershing Properties. The Pershing Properties consist of certain uranium assets and rights acquired by Pershing from Continental Resources Group, Inc. on July 22, 2011, a uranium exploration and development company, and primarily consist of certain state leases and federal unpatented mining claims in California known as the Coso property in Inyo County, Artillery Peak, in western north-central Arizona, Blythe, in Riverside County, California and Prospect Uranium, in North Dakota. Prior to the exercise of the Option, Pershing shall retain the right to explore, develop or operate on any of the Pershing Properties and the Company will assume all costs and expenses associated with the Pershing Properties following exercise of the option. Between January 2012 and February 2012, the Company paid $930,000 of the Note. Note payable to Pershing at March 31, 2012 amounted to $70,000. We are primarily engaged in the acquisition and exploration of properties that may contain uranium mineralization in the United States. Our target properties are those that have been the subject of historical exploration. We have not begun operations at any of our target properties. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies affect the significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and present the financial statements of the Company and our wholly-owned subsidiary. In the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated. 29 Exploration Stage Companies We have been in the exploration stage since our formation and have not yet realized any revenues from our planned operations. We have not commenced business operations. We are an exploration stage company as defined in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 915 Development Stage Entities. Use of Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates made by management include, but are not limited to, the assumptions used to calculate fair value of warrants granted, common stock issued for services, and common stock issued in connection with an option agreement. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. ASC 820 establishes a common definition for fair value to be applied to existing US GAAP that require the use of fair value measurements which establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure about such fair value measurements. ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Additionally, ASC 820 requires the use of valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. These inputs are prioritized below: Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data Level 3: Unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data, which require the use of the reporting entitys own assumptions. The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash, prepaid expenses, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and note payable approximate their estimated fair market value based on the short-term maturity of this instrument. In addition, FASB ASC 825-10-25 Fair Value Option was effective for January 1, 2008. ASC 825-10-25 expands opportunities to use fair value measurements in financial reporting and permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation is accounted for based on the requirements of the Share-Based Payment Topic of ASC 718 which requires recognition in the consolidated financial statements of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments over the period the employee or director is required to perform the services in exchange for the award (presumptively, the vesting period). The ASC also requires measurement of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award based on the grant-date fair value of the award. Pursuant to ASC Topic 505-50, for share-based payments to consultants and other third-parties, compensation expense is determined at the measurement date. The expense is recognized over the vesting period of the award. Until the measurement date is reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain. The Company initially records compensation expense based on the fair value of the award at the reporting date. 30 Mineral Property Acquisition and Exploration Costs Costs of lease, exploration, carrying and retaining unproven mineral lease properties are expensed as incurred. The Company has chosen to expense all mineral exploration costs as incurred given that it is still in the exploration stage. Once the Company has identified proven and probable reserves in its investigation of its properties and upon development of a plan for operating a mine, it would enter the development stage and capitalize future costs until production is established. When a property reaches the production stage, the related capitalized costs will be amortized, using the units-of-production method over the estimated life of the probable-proven reserves. When the Company has capitalized mineral properties, these properties will be periodically assessed for impairment of value and any diminution in value. To date, the Company has not established the commercial feasibility of any exploration prospects; therefore, all costs are being expensed. ASC 930-805, states that mineral rights consist of the legal right to explore, extract, and retain at least a portion of the benefits from mineral deposits. Mining assets include mineral rights. Acquired mineral rights are considered tangible assets under ASC 805. ASC 805 requires that mineral rights be recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. As a result, our direct costs to acquire mineral rights are initially capitalized as tangible assets. Mineral rights include costs associated with acquiring patented and unpatented mining claims. If proven and probable reserves are established for the property and it has been determined that a mineral property can be economically developed, costs will be amortized using the units-of-production method over the estimated life of the probable reserve. For mineral rights in which proven and probable reserves have not yet been established, we assess the carrying values for impairment at the end of each reporting period and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long-Lived Assets We review for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable, pursuant to guidance established in ASC 360-10-35-15, Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. We recognize an impairment loss when the sum of expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. The amount of impairment is measured as the difference between the assets estimated fair value and its book value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011-08, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350). This Accounting Standards Update amends FASB ASC Topic 350. This amendment specifies the change in method for determining the potential impairment of goodwill. It includes examples of circumstances and events that the entity should consider in evaluating whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption does not have any material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In December 2011, FASB issued Accounting Standard Update No. 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (ASU 2011-12) , which indefinitely defers certain provisions of ASU 2011-05 issued earlier in June 2011and will be further deliberated by the FASB at a future date. The new ASU affects entities that report items of comprehensive income in any period presented. During the deferral period, entities will still need to comply with the existing requirements in U.S. GAAP for the presentation of reclassification adjustments. Specifically, ASC 220 gives entities the option of (1) presenting reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the face of the statement in which comprehensive income is presented or (2) disclosing reclassification adjustments in the footnotes to the financial statements. ASU 2011-12 and ASU 2011-05 share the same effective date. This guidance is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption does not have any material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Other accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by the FASB that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements upon adoption. 31 Results of Operations American Strategic Minerals Corporation business began on April 30, 2011 accordingly, no comparisons exist for the prior period. We are still in our exploration stage and have generated no revenues to date. Three months ended March 31, 2012 We incurred operating expenses of $3,084,879 for the three months ended March 31, 2012. These expenses primarily consisted of general expenses, exploration cost, compensation, professional fees and consulting incurred in connection with the day to day operation of our business. The operating expenses consisted of the following: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 Exploration costs $ 27,305 Travel and related expenses 63,979 Professional fees 262,739 Compensation and related taxes 840,943 Consulting fees 1,829,423 Other general and administrative 60,490 Total $ 3,084,879 Explorations costs: For the three months ended March 31, 2012, exploration costs were $27,305, which includes costs of lease, exploration, carrying and retaining unproven mineral lease properties. The Company has chosen to expense all mineral acquisition and exploration costs as incurred given that it is still in the exploration stage. Travel and related expenses: Travel expenses were $63,979 during the three months ended March 31, 2012.These expenses are in connection with conference campaign and business development related travel. Compensation expense and related taxes: Compensation expense includes salaries and stock-based compensation to our employees. For the three months ended March 31, 2012, compensation expense and related taxes were $840,943 which is primarily attributable to stock based compensation of $781,610 in connection with warrant grants to our directors during the period. Consulting fees: For the three months ended March 31, 2012, we incurred consulting fees of $1,829,423 which is primarily attributable to stock based consulting of $1,754,465 in connection with warrant grants to consultants for consulting on strategic acquisitions and advice on capital restructuring during the period. Professional fees: For the three months ended March 31, 2012, professional fees were $262,739 which includes fees incurred for audits and legal fees related to public company filing requirements. Other general and administrative expenses: For the three months ended March 31, 2012 other general and administrative expenses were $60,490, which includes postage, general insurance, automobile, office supplies, utilities, rent expense and office expenses. Other Income Total other income was $125,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2012. On March 19, 2012, we entered into an agreement with California Gold, pursuant to which we agreed to provide California Gold with a geological review on or prior to March 30, 2012, of our Bull Canyon and Martin Mesa properties in consideration for $125,000. 32 Net loss We reported a net loss of $2,959,879 for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and basic and diluted net loss of $0.09 per share. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is the ability of a company to generate funds to support its current and future operations, satisfy its obligations, and otherwise operate on an ongoing basis. At March 31, 2012, we had a cash balance of $4,006,244 and working capital of $10,019,239. We have been funding our operations through the sale of our common stock through private placements for operating capital purposes. As of March 31, 2012, note payable amounted to $70,000. We currently have no material commitments for capital expenditures. We may be required to raise additional funds, particularly if we are unable to generate positive cash flow as a result of our operations. We estimate that based on current plans and assumptions, that our available cash is sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements under our present operating expectations for up to 12 months. We presently have no other alternative source of working capital. We may not have sufficient working capital to fund the expansion of our operations and to provide working capital necessary for our ongoing operations and obligations after 12 months. We have not generated revenues to support our daily operations from the inception of exploration stage. We may need to raise significant additional capital to fund our future operating expenses, pay our obligations, and grow our Company. We do not anticipate we will be profitable in 2012. Therefore our future operations will be dependent on our ability to secure additional financing. Financing transactions may include the issuance of equity or debt securities, obtaining credit facilities, or other financing mechanisms. The trading price of our common stock and a downturn in the U.S. equity and debt markets could make it more difficult to obtain financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities. Even if we are able to raise the funds required, it is possible that we could incur unexpected costs and expenses, fail to collect significant amounts owed to us, or experience unexpected cash requirements that would force us to seek alternative financing. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity or debt securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. The inability to obtain additional capital may restrict our ability to grow and may reduce our ability to continue to conduct business operations. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we will likely be required to curtail our marketing and development plans and possibly cease our operations. Operating Activities We have not generated positive cash flows from operating activities. For the period from inception (April 30, 2011) to March 31, 2012, net cash flows used in operating activities was ($483,899) and was primarily attributable to our net loss of $2,959,879, offset by stock based compensation of $2,611,075, and add back non cash other income of $125,000, and total changes in assets and liabilities of $10,095 due to an increase in prepaid expenses of $88,855, decrease in deposits of $3,500 and increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $75,260. Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities were $325,000 in connection with acquisition of mineral rights during the three months ended March 31, 2012. Financing Activities Net cash flows provided by financing activities were $4,685,991 for the three months ended March 31, 2012. We received net proceeds from the sale of our stocks of $5,768,965 offset by payment on notes payable of $1,082,974. 33 Contractual Obligations We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the tables, in order to assist in the review of this information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operation, and cash flows. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2012, and the effect these obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payments Due By Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 Years 4-5 Years 5 Years + Contractual Obligations: Note payable $ 70,000 $ 70,000 $ - $ - $ - Uranium lease agreements 309,900 45,700 163,900 93,900 6,400 Royalty agreement minimum payments 287,500 42,500 157,500 87,500 - Total Contractual Obligations $ 667,400 $ 158,200 $ 321,400 $ 181,400 $ 6,400 Uranium Lease Agreements In November 2011, we entered into several mining lease agreements with our certain officers and affiliated companies owned by our officers (collectively the Lessors). Such mining lease agreements grants and leases to us mineral properties located in the County of San Juan, Utah, County of Montrose, Colorado and County of San Miguel, Colorado. The term of the mining lease agreements shall be for the period of 20 years. We are required to pay the annual Bureau of Land Management maintenance fees and other fees required to hold the mineral properties. If we fail to keep or perform according to the terms of this agreement shall constitute an event of default and as such we shall have 10 days after receipt of default notice to make good or cure the default. Upon failure to cure the default, such mining lease agreements shall be terminated by the Lessors. We shall be under no further obligation or liability to the Lessors from and after the termination except for the performance of obligations and satisfaction of accrued liabilities to Lessors or third parties prior to such termination. In December 2011, we entered into a lease assignment/acceptance agreement with an affiliated company owned by our officers whereby the affiliated company agreed to assign its mineral rights and interests to us under a Surface and Mineral Lease Agreement (the Agreement) dated in October 2011 with J.H. Ranch, Inc. (the Lessor) located in San Juan County, Utah. We agreed to perform all of the affiliated companys obligation under the Agreement, including the payment of all lease payments, annual rents, advanced royalties, production royalties and other compensation as defined in the 20 year term Agreement. The following schedule consists of the lease payment to Lessor based from the Agreement: Due Date of Lease Payments from October 2011 Amount of Lease Payment On or before the 30th day after the 1st Anniversary $ 42,500 On or before the 30th day after the 2nd Anniversary $ 70,000 On or before the 30th day after the 3rd Anniversary $ 87,500 On or before the 30th day after the 4th Anniversary as the 5th and final payment $ 87,500 34 We are required under the terms of the Agreement to make annual rent payments commencing on or before the 30th day after the 5th anniversary and each year thereafter and shall pay $10 for each acre of land contained within the lease premises. The following schedule consists of the advance royalty payments to Lessor based from the Agreement: Due Date of Advance Royalty Payments from October 2011 Amount of Advance Royalty Payment On or before the 30th day after the 1st Anniversary $ 42,500 On or before the 30th day after the 2nd Anniversary $ 70,000 On or before the 30th day after the 3rd Anniversary $ 87,500 On or before the 30th day after the 4th Anniversary as the 5th and final payment $ 87,500 We shall pay a production royalty of 6.25% of the fair market value of all crude ores containing uranium, canadium and associated and related minerals mined and sold from the leased deposits. When production royalty payments from the sales of ores from the leased premises equal the cumulative amount due to Lessor as advanced royalty payment, we shall pay Lessor 12.5% of the fair market value as defined in the Agreement. On January 30, 2012, we, through our wholly owned subsidiary, Amicor, entered into a Mining Claim and Lease Sale/Purchase Agreement with Robert A. Larson whereby Mr. Larson sold and quitclaimed the Claims to the Company under a quitclaim deed and assigned the Lease to the Company pursuant to a lease assignment in consideration for an aggregate purchase price One Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000). Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and the Quitclaim Deed, the Company shall pay to Mr. Larson a Production Royalty, on a quarterly basis, equal to 5% of the fair market value (calculated pursuant to the terms of the Quitclaim Deed) of all crude ores containing uranium, vanadium and associated and related minerals mined and shipped or sold form the Claims or fed to Initial Process (defined in the Quitclaim Deed as any processing or milling procedure to up-grade, concentrate or refine crude ores, including custom milling or other processing arrangement whereby title to the crude ore and all products derived therefrom is retained by us. Such property is located in San Miguel County, Colorado consisting of 320 acres more or less. The term of the assigned lease shall be for a period of 10 years and we shall have the right to renew and extend for an additional 10 year period. Under the lease, we shall pay annual rent payment of $10 for each acres of land contained within the property. Once development, mining and or production has commenced and defined areas for mining has been designated, the annual rent payment for that portion shall be $25 for each acre designated with the remaining acreage shall continue to be paid at $10 for each acre. We shall also pay surface damage as defined in the Lease. Off-balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any other financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the payment obligations of any third parties. We have not entered into any derivative contracts that are indexed to our shares and classified as stockholders equity or that are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity.