Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we do not currently believe to be material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factors Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our company. The following is a summary of some of these risks and uncertainties. This summary should be read together with the more detailed description of each risk factor below. We have experienced rapid net revenue growth in recent periods and our recent net revenue growth rates may not be indicative of our future net revenue growth. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan or maintain high levels of customer service and satisfaction, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future net revenue growth depends on our ability to retain existing Customers, drive increased TPV on our Platform, and attract new Customers in a cost-effective manner. We participate in markets that are competitive and continuously evolving, and if we do not compete effectively with established companies and new market entrants, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We currently generate significant net revenue from our largest Customer, Block, Inc., or Block, and the loss or decline in net revenue from Block could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our recent growth, ongoing changes in our industry, and our transaction mix make it difficult to forecast our net revenue and evaluate our business and future prospects. We have a history of net losses, we anticipate increasing operating expenses in the future, and we may not be able to achieve profitability. We may experience annual or quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors that make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below analyst or investor expectations. The global COVID-19 pandemic could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business relies on our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our business may be adversely affected. Further, any changes to the rules or practices set by Card Networks, including changes in Interchange Fees, could adversely affect our business. There has been a limited public market for our Class A common stock, the trading price of our Class A common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with those stockholders who hold shares of our Class B common stock, including our directors, executive officers, and their respective affiliates. This ownership limits or precludes your ability to influence corporate matters, including the election of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, and any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or other major corporate transaction requiring stockholder approval, and that may depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. 27 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have experienced rapid net revenue growth in recent periods and our recent net revenue growth rates may not be indicative of our future net revenue growth. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. Our total net revenue was $517.2 million, $290.3 million and $143.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively, an increase of 78% and 103% from the prior years, respectively. In future periods, we may not be able to sustain net revenue growth consistent with recent history, or at all. Further, because we operate in an evolving payments industry, our ability to grow and innovate is important to our success. We believe our net revenue growth depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: acquire new Customers and retain existing Customers; achieve widespread acceptance and use of our Platform and the services we offer; increase the use of our Platform and our offerings, TPV, and the number of transactions on our Platform; effectively scale our operations while maintaining high levels of service and Customer satisfaction; maintain and increase our net revenue and gross profit by continuing to innovate and expanding our product and service offerings; diversify our Customer base; maintain and grow our network of vendors and partners, including Issuing Banks, Card Networks, and other vendors and partners; hire and retain talented employees at all levels of our business; maintain the security and reliability of our Platform; adapt to changes in laws and regulations applicable to our business; adapt to changing macroeconomic conditions and evolving conditions in the payments industry; introduce and grow widespread adoption of our Platform in new markets outside of the United States; and successfully compete against established companies and new market entrants, including legacy issuing platforms and modern payments technology companies. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives, our net revenue growth may be adversely affected. We also expect our operating expenses to increase in future periods, and if our net revenue growth does not increase to offset these anticipated increases in our operating expenses, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve profitability. We have also encountered in the past, and expect to encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in evolving industries as further detailed in these Risk Factors. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our growth rates may slow and our business would suffer. In the near term, we expect our TPV and net revenue growth rates to be variable as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the continued spread and evolution of COVID-19, and we are unable to predict the duration, degree, or volatility of future growth with any certainty. 28 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan or maintain high levels of Customer service and satisfaction, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. For example, our workforce has grown to 789 employees as of December 31, 2021 from 509 employees as of December 31, 2020. We have offices in the United Kingdom, or U.K., and Australia, and a presence in Singapore, and we plan to continue to expand our international presence and operations into other countries in the future. We have also historically experienced significant growth in the number of Customers using our Platform, the number of card programs and solutions we manage for our Customers, and TPV on our Platform. To manage operations and personnel growth, we will need to continue to grow and improve our operational, financial, and management controls, and our reporting systems and procedures. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to expand our systems and infrastructure before our net revenue increases without any assurances that our net revenue will increase. We also believe that our corporate culture has been and will continue to be a valuable component of our success. As we expand our business and mature as a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain our corporate culture while managing this growth as our employees and other service providers increasingly work from geographic areas across the globe. Failure to manage our anticipated growth and organizational changes in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our culture could reduce our ability to recruit and retain personnel, innovate, operate effectively, and execute on our business strategy, potentially adversely affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Additionally, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our global workforce has been working remotely or in hybrid settings, with expected future phased office re-openings potentially limiting our employees ability to perform certain job functions and, over time, negatively impacting corporate culture. Further, as more of our employees are located in new jurisdictions, we will be required to invest resources and to monitor continually changing local regulations and requirements, and we may experience a resulting increase in our expenses, decrease in employee productivity, and changes in our corporate culture. In addition, as we expand our business, it is important that we continue to maintain a high level of Customer service and satisfaction. As our Customer base continues to grow, we will need to expand our account management and Customer service teams and continue to scale our Platform. If we are not able to continue to provide high levels of Customer service, our reputation, as well as our business, results of operations, and financial condition, could be adversely affected. Future net revenue growth depends on our ability to retain existing Customers, drive increased TPV on our Platform, and attract new Customers in a cost-effective manner. Our net revenue growth substantially depends on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with existing Customers and increase the volume of transactions processed on our Platform. If our prospective Customers do not recognize, or our existing Customers do not continue to recognize, the need for and benefits of our Platform and our products, they may decide to adopt alternative products and services to satisfy their business needs. To grow our business and extend our market position, we intend to focus on educating potential Customers about the benefits of our Platform, expanding the capabilities of our Platform and our product offerings, and bringing new products and services to market to increase market acceptance and use of our Platform. Some of our Customer contracts provide for a termination clause that allows our Customers to terminate their contract at any time following a limited notice period. In addition, our Customers generally are not subject to any minimum volume commitments under their contracts and have no obligation to continue using our Platform, products, or services. We cannot assure you that Customers will continue to use our Platform or that we will be able to continue processing transactions on our Platform at the same rate as we have in the past. Customers may terminate or reduce their use of our Platform for any number of reasons, including their level of satisfaction with our products and services, the effectiveness of our support services, our pricing and the pricing and quality of competing products or services, or the effects of global economic conditions. 29 Table of Contents The loss of Customers or reductions in their processing volumes, particularly any loss of or reductions by Block, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our growth may decline in the future if Customers are not satisfied with our Platform or our ability to meet our Customers needs and expectations. Further, the complexity and costs associated with switching processing volume to our competitors may not ultimately prevent a Customer from switching to another provider. To achieve continued growth, we must not only maintain our relationships with our existing Customers, but also encourage them to increase adoption and usage of our products. For example, Customers can have multiple card programs on our Platform across different use cases and geographies. If Customers do not renew their contracts or broaden their use of our services, our growth may slow or stop and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition to capitalizing on the potential net revenue embedded within our existing Customer base, we must continue to attract new Customers to promote growth. Our growth depends on developing new use cases and industry verticals across new geographies. We may face additional challenges that are unique to the markets we target and we may not be able to acquire new Customers in a cost-effective manner. To reach new Customers, we may need to spend significantly more on sales and marketing to generate awareness of our Platform and educate potential Customers on the value of our Platform. We may also need to adapt our existing technology and offerings or develop new or innovative capabilities to meet the particular needs of Customers in these new use cases or new markets, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. We may not have adequate financial or technological resources to develop effective and secure products and services that will satisfy the demands of Customers in these new markets. When a new Customer launches with us, if we are slow to onboard them onto our Platform or are slow to expand their use cases, our net revenue from the Customer may be limited. If we fail to attract new Customers, including Customers in new use cases, industry verticals, and geographies, and to expand our Platform in a way that serves the needs of these new Customers, and to onboard them quickly, then we may not be able to continue to grow our net revenue. We participate in markets that are competitive and continuously evolving, and if we do not compete effectively with established companies and new market entrants, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We were founded in 2010, and we provide a single, global, cloud-based, open-API Platform for modern card issuing and payment processing. We provide card issuing, payment processing, risk management, data insights, and a variety of controls, customizations, and features through our Platform. Our modern card issuing Platform is situated in the evolving financial technology and payments industries that are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly evolving technology, shifting customer needs, new market entrants, and introductions of new products and services. We face competition along several dimensions, including providers with legacy technology platforms, such as Global Payments (TSYS), Fiserv, and Fidelity National Information Services; vertical-focused providers, such as Wex and Comdata; and emerging providers, such as Adyen and Stripe. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include industry expertise, platform and product features and functionality, ability to build new technology and keep pace with innovation, scalability, extensibility, product pricing, security and reliability, brand recognition and reputation, agility, and speed to market. We expect competition to increase in the future as established and emerging companies continue to enter the markets we serve or attempt to address the problems that our Platform addresses. Moreover, as we expand the scope of our Platform, we may face additional competition. Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors could have, substantial competitive advantages such as greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets and resources, more established relationships with vendors or customers, greater customer support resources, greater resources to make acquisitions and investments, lower labor and development costs, larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios, and substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources. Such competitors with greater financial and operating resources may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements, or regulatory developments. In addition, there has been a recent increase in large merger and acquisition transactions in the payments industry, and future mergers and acquisitions by these companies may lead to even larger competitors with more resources. 30 Table of Contents Conditions in our markets could also change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, partnering by our competitors, or continuing market consolidation, and it is uncertain how our markets will evolve. New commerce disruptors or large financial institutions that are making significant investments in research and development may develop similar or superior products and technologies that compete with our Platform. Our existing and potential Customers also may choose to build some of the functionality our Platform provides, potentially limiting or eliminating their demand for our Platform. These competitive pressures in our markets or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer Customers, reduced net revenue, gross profit, and gross margins, increased net losses, loss of processing volume, and loss of market share. Any failure to meet and address these factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We currently generate significant net revenue from a small group of Customers, including our largest Customer, Block, and the loss or decline in net revenue from these customers, particularly Block, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A small number of Customers account for a large percentage of our net revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, Block accounted for 69%, 70% and 60% of our net revenue, respectively. Although we expect the net revenue from our largest Customer will decrease over time as a percentage of our total net revenue as we generate more net revenue from other Customers, we expect that net revenue from a relatively small group of Customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue in the near term. Additionally, consolidation within our Customers industries has accelerated in recent years, which has in turn increased the concentration of our Customers, and these trends may continue. For example, Block, our largest Customer, announced in February 2022 that it had completed its acquisition of Afterpay Limited, which is also our Customer, and may increase the percentage of our net revenue represented by our largest Customer. Furthermore, in the event that any of our largest Customers stop using our Platform or use our Platform in a reduced capacity, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, any publicity associated with the loss of any of these Customers may adversely affect our reputation and could make it more difficult to attract and retain other Customers. Our Customer contracts generally do not contain long-term commitments from our Customers, and our Customers may be able to terminate their agreements with us prior to expiration of the contracts term. The current term of our agreement with Block for Cash App expires in March 2024 and the current term of our agreement with Block for Square Card expires in December 2024, and each agreement automatically renews thereafter for successive one-year periods. Furthermore, while certain of our Customer contracts have minimum volume commitments, others do not. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue our relationships with our Customers on the same or more favorable terms in future periods or that our relationships will continue beyond the terms of our existing contracts with them. In addition, the processing volume from Block has in the past fluctuated from period to period and may fluctuate or decline in future periods. Our net revenue and results of operations could suffer if, among other things, Block does not continue to use our products, uses fewer of our products, reduces its processing volume, or renegotiates, terminates or fails to renew, or to renew on similar or favorable terms, its agreement with us. Our recent growth, ongoing changes in our industry, and our transaction mix make it difficult to forecast our net revenue and evaluate our business and future prospects. We launched our Platform publicly in 2014, and much of our growth has occurred in recent periods. This recent growth makes it difficult to effectively assess or forecast our future prospects, particularly in an evolving industry. Our modern card issuing Platform represents a substantial departure from the traditional card issuing methods and the payment processing solutions offered by traditional providers. While our business has grown rapidly, the market for our Platform, products, and services may not develop as we expect or in a manner that is favorable to our business. As a result of ongoing changes in our evolving industry, our ability to forecast our future results of operations and plan for and model future growth is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties. 31 Table of Contents In particular, forecasting our future results of operations can be challenging because our net revenue depends in part on our Customers end users, and our transaction mix adds further complexity. Our transaction mix refers to the proportion of signature debit versus PIN debit transactions and consumer versus commercial transactions that make up our TPV. In general, transactions that require a signature of the cardholder generate higher percentage-based Interchange Fees, while transactions that require a PIN generate lower percentage-based Interchange Fees. Accordingly, we may be unable to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts, and our results of operations in future reporting periods may differ materially from our estimates and forecasts or the expectations of investors or analysts, causing our business to suffer and our Class A common stock trading price to decline. We have a history of net losses, we anticipate increasing operating expenses in the future, and we may not be able to achieve profitability. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including net losses of $163.9 million, $47.7 million and $122.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future and we may not achieve profitability in the future. Because the market for our Platform, products, and services is evolving, it is difficult for us to predict our results of operations or our market opportunity. We expect our operating expenses to significantly increase over the next several years as we hire additional personnel, adjust compensation packages to hire new or retain employees in an increasingly competitive job market, expand our operations and infrastructure, both domestically and internationally, continue to enhance our Platform and develop and expand its capabilities, expand our products and services, and expand and improve our APIs. These initiatives may be more costly than we expect and may not result in increased net revenue. In addition, as a public company, we have incurred, and we will continue to incur, additional significant legal, insurance, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Any failure to increase our net revenue sufficiently to keep pace with the increases in expenses resulting from these initiatives, investments, and other activities could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or positive cash flow on a consistent basis in future periods. If we fail to achieve profitability, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability and may continue to incur significant losses going forward. Any failure by us to achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent basis could cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline. From time to time, we may make decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe those decisions will improve the experiences of our Customers, end users, and other users of our products and services, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with investors expectations and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, and this may materially and adversely affect our business. We may experience annual or quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors that make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below analyst or investor expectations. Our annual or quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including, but not limited to: demand for our Platform, products, and services by our Customers; our success in engaging and retaining existing Customers and attracting new Customers; changes in transaction mix or volume processed on the different Card Networks used and the resultant mix of interchange and transaction fees earned; our success in increasing our Customers processing volumes; demand for our Customers products by their customers; the timing and success of new capabilities by us or by our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our market; changes to the terms of and performance under our Customer contracts, including concessions, or payments to Customers resulting from our failure to meet certain service level commitments, which are generally based on our Platform uptime, API response time, and/or transaction success rate; reductions in pricing as a result of renegotiations with our larger Customers; 32 Table of Contents the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures, as well as entry into operating leases, that we may incur to maintain and expand our business and operations and remain competitive; the timing and extent of amendments or new contracts related to our volume incentive arrangements with Card Networks, which could result in incentive payments that are recorded in a current period and based on volume processed in a prior period; the timing of expenses and recognition of net revenue; changes in Customers processing volumes resulting from seasonal fluctuations; security breaches, and technical difficulties involving our Platform or interruptions or disruptions of our Platform; adverse litigation judgments, other dispute-related settlement payments, or other litigation-related costs; regulatory fines; changes in, and continuing uncertainty in relation to, the legislative or regulatory environment; the timing and extent of changes in interchange rates set by Card Networks; legal and regulatory compliance costs in new and existing markets; the amount of compensation and timing of hiring new employees; the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; the timing and extent of increases of grants or vesting of equity awards to employees, directors, or consultants and the recognition of associated share-based compensation expenses and related payroll tax; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fluctuations in interest rates; costs and timing of expenses related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies, or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs and possible write-downs; the impact of tax charges as a result of non-compliance with, or changes to, federal, state, local, or other tax regulations; changes to generally accepted accounting standards in the United States; health pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, influenza, and other highly communicable diseases or viruses; the impact of market and economic volatility caused by the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and the businesses of our Customers; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on consumer demand and spending patterns; and general economic conditions in either domestic or international markets, including conditions resulting from geopolitical uncertainty and instability or war, including the significant military action against Ukraine launched by Russia. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. You should not rely on our past results as an indicator of our future performance. The variability and unpredictability of our results of operations or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our or investors expectations, or those of analysts that cover us, with respect to net revenue or other key metrics for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. 33 Table of Contents Systems failures and interruptions in the availability of our Platform may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our continued growth depends on the efficient operation of our Platform without interruption or degradation of performance. Our business involves processing large numbers of transactions, enabling the movement of large sums of money on an aggregate basis, and the management of large amounts of data, and a system outage or data loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may experience service interruptions, data loss, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes or failures, introductions of new functionality, human or software errors, capacity constraints, denial-of-service attacks, ransomware attacks, or other security-related incidents, including as retaliation against financial institutions for sanctions imposed against Russia as a result of the significant military action against Ukraine launched by Russia. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems immediately or in short order, and we may face difficulties remediating and otherwise responding to any such issues. We may not be able to maintain the level of service uptime and performance needed by our Customers, especially as TPV increases. We have experienced high growth in TPV over the past several years and expect such growth may continue for the coming years; however, if we are unable to maintain sufficient processing capacity, Customers could face longer processing times or even downtime. Furthermore, any efforts to further scale our Platform or increase its complexity to handle a larger number or more complicated transactions could result in performance issues, including downtime. If our Platform is unavailable or if Customers are unable to access our Platform within a reasonable amount of time, or at all, our business would be adversely affected. Our Customers rely on the full-time availability of our Platform to process payment transactions, and an outage on our Platform could impair the ability of our Customers to operate their business and generate revenue. Therefore, any system failure, outage, performance problem, or interruption in the availability of our Platform would negatively impact our brand, reputation, and Customer satisfaction, and could subject us to financial penalties and liabilities. Moreover, we depend on services from various third-party vendors to maintain our infrastructure, including data center facilities and cloud storage platforms such as Amazon Web Services, Inc., or AWS. We conduct vendor due diligence; however, if a service provider fails to develop and maintain sufficient internal control processes or fails to provide sufficient capacity to support our Platform or otherwise experiences service outages, such failure could interrupt the operation of our Platform, potentially adversely affecting our Customers or their perception of our Platforms reliability and adversely affecting the business of Customers using our Platform. Any disruptions in these services, including as a result of actions outside of our control, would significantly impact the continued performance of our Platform. In the future, these services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of these services could result in decreased functionality of our Platform until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available from another provider, is identified, obtained, and integrated into our infrastructure. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our Customers could experience service shortfalls. We may also be unable to effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, as well as to increase efficiency. Further, our Customer contracts typically provide for service level commitments. If we suffer extended periods of downtime of our Platform or are otherwise unable to meet these commitments, we are contractually obligated to provide service credits, which may be based on a percentage of the processing volume on the day of an incident or the revenue we earned from our Customer on the day of an incident, or based on our overall monthly transaction success rate and the incentive payments or fees from that month. We have experienced incidents requiring us to pay service level credits and other customer service concessions in the past. In addition, the performance and availability of the cloud-based solutions that provide cloud infrastructures for our Platform is outside of our control and, therefore, we are not in full control of whether we meet our service level commitments. As a result, we have experienced, and expect to continue to periodically experience, unpredictable outages of the services provided by these cloud infrastructure providers. Our business, results of operations, and financial condition has in the past been affected and could in the future be adversely affected if we suffer unscheduled downtime that exceeds the service level commitments we have made to our Customers. Any extended service outages could adversely affect our business and reputation and erode Customer trust. 34 Table of Contents Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation, cause Customers to terminate their agreements with us, impair our ability to renew contracts with Customers and grow our Customer base, subject us to financial penalties and liabilities, and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The global COVID-19 pandemic could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the novel strain of coronavirus, COVID-19, a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has continued to spread and evolve. The related public health measures, including orders to shelter in place, travel restrictions, and mandated business closures, have adversely affected workforces, organizations, Customers, economies, and financial markets globally, leading to an economic downturn and increased market volatility. The extent to which such measures are removed or new measures are put in place will depend upon how the pandemic and the global response evolves, including the distribution of available vaccines, the rates at which they are administered, and the emergence of new variants of the virus. The pandemic, as well as intensified measures undertaken to contain the spread of COVID-19, has impacted our day-to-day operations. Like many other companies, the majority of our workforce is working remotely and engaging with prospects and Customers who are also generally working remotely. As public health measures in the United States continue to shift, many Customer, employee, and industry events continue to be virtual-only experiences due to the pandemic. Live event attendance and sponsorship is one of the ways we have historically connected with prospective Customers. We rely on events, such as Money20/20, for a portion of our lead generation. A contingent of our employees attended Money20/20 in person in 2021, but the possibility of future variants of COVID-19 creates continuing uncertainty around live industry events in 2022. Because our solution is technical and requires in-depth discussions around Customer use cases, it can be challenging to acquire new Customers through predominantly online outreach, such as virtual events, email, and targeted ads. We have also observed fatigue from prospective Customers around attending virtual events, making it more difficult to acquire Customers through such events. Any cancellation or postponement of live events may impair our ability to acquire new Customers and prospects and may also result in the loss of financial commitments made to such events. In addition, we may incur increased workforce costs, including costs associated with implementing additional personnel and workplace safety protocols when the majority of our employees return to an office, and workplace or labor claims and disputes related to COVID-19. The continued spread and evolution of COVID-19 could also have an adverse impact on our vendors, partners, and Customers, therefore materially and adversely impacting our business, results of operations, and overall financial performance in future periods. For example, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, a decrease in processing volumes from certain Customers, particularly those in industries that are heavily impacted by various public health measures, such as travel; delayed sales cycles, including Customers and prospective Customers delaying contract signing or contract renewals; and delays in launching strategic partnerships and opportunities. These disruptions could continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition, and could have other currently unforeseen negative impacts on us. 35 Table of Contents While we have developed and continue to develop plans to help mitigate the potential negative impact of the pandemic on our business, it is possible the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly in light of new variant strains of the virus, could further impact our operations and the operations of our Customers, partners, and vendors as a result of quarantines, illnesses, and travel and logistics restrictions. Supply chain disruption and resulting inflationary pressures, a global labor shortage, and the ebb and flow of COVID-19, including in specific geographies, are currently impacting the pace of our and our Customers, partners, and vendors recovery and our business outlook. Our efforts to mitigate the potential negative impact of the pandemic on our business may not be effective and a protracted economic downturn will likely limit the effectiveness of our mitigation efforts. It is not possible for us to predict the duration or magnitude of the adverse results of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on our business, results of operations, or financial condition at this time. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, increases in infection rates and hospitalizations, the resulting impact on the businesses of our Customers, partners, and vendors, the remedial actions and stimulus measures adopted by federal, state, and local governments, and the extent that normal economic and operating conditions are impacted. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, results of operations, and financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. For more information on the effect of COVID-19 and potential risks to us, please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Impact of COVID-19. Our business relies on our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our business may be adversely affected. Further, any changes to the rules or practices set by Card Networks, including changes in Interchange Fees, could adversely affect our business. We rely on our relationships with financial institutions, including Issuing Banks and Card Networks, that provide certain services that are an important part of our product offering. We have in the past and may in the future have disagreements with these financial institutions. If we are unable to maintain the quality of these relationships or fail to comply with our contractual requirements with these financial institutions, our business would be adversely affected. We partner with Issuing Banks, who issue payment cards to our Customers and settle payment transactions on such cards. A significant portion of our payment transactions are settled through one Issuing Bank, Sutton Bank. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, 90%, 96% and 97%, respectively, of TPV was settled through Sutton Bank. If Sutton Bank terminates our agreement with them or is unable or unwilling to settle our transactions for any reason, we may be required to switch some or all of our processing volume to one or more other Issuing Banks, including to any of the three other U.S. Issuing Banks that we currently contract with. Switching a significant portion or all of our processing volume to another Issuing Bank, including contracting with additional Issuing Banks, would take time and could result in additional costs, including increased operating expenses, and termination fees under our agreement with Sutton Bank if unilaterally terminated by us without Sutton Bank's consent. We could also lose Customers if we do not have another Issuing Bank who is willing to support such Customers. Diversifying our contractual relationships and operations with Issuing Banks may increase the complexity of our operations and may also lead to increased costs. 36 Table of Contents We also have agreements directly with Card Networks, such as Visa, Mastercard, and PULSE, which is part of the Discover Global Network, that, among other things, provide us certain monetary incentives based on the processing volume of our Customers transactions routed through the respective Card Network. For certain incentive arrangements with an annual measurement period, the one-year period may not align with our fiscal year. Unusual fluctuations in network fees can occur in the quarter in which volume thresholds are achieved as higher incentive rates are applied to volumes over the entire measurement periods, which can span 6 or 12 months, which can affect our financial results for a given quarter or fiscal year. If we were to lose our certification with a Card Network, we could lose Customers if they needed to switch to a different Card Network, for which we did not have a certification. The Issuing Banks and Card Networks we work with may fail to process transactions, breach their agreements with us, or refuse to renew or renegotiate our agreements with them on terms that are favorable, commercially reasonable, or at all. They might also take actions that could degrade the functionality of our services, impose additional costs or requirements on us, or give preferential treatment to competitive services, including their own services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing, renegotiating, or maintaining relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, our business may be adversely affected. Our agreements with Issuing Banks and Card Networks require us to comply with Card Network operating rules. The Card Networks set these network rules and have discretion to interpret the rules and change them at any time. For additional information about regulations relating to network rules, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Relating to RegulationOur business is subject to extensive regulation and oversight in a variety of areas, directly and indirectly through our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, which regulations are subject to change and to uncertain interpretation. While changes in the network rules usually relate to pricing, other types of changes could require us to take certain steps to comply or adapt. For example, we began to issue cards with chips built in when a network rule changed to enable chip and PIN transactions. The termination of the card association registrations held by us or any of the Issuing Banks or any changes to these network rules or how they are interpreted could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. Any changes to or interpretations of the network rules that are inconsistent with the way we or our Issuing Banks currently operate may require us to make changes to our business that could be costly or difficult to implement. If we fail to make such changes or otherwise resolve the issue with the Card Networks, the Card Networks could fine us or prohibit us from processing payment cards. In addition, violations of the network rules or any failure to maintain good relationships with the Card Networks could impact our ability to receive incentives from them, increase our costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our performance is subject to economic conditions and their impact on levels of spending by businesses and their customers. Our net revenue is dependent on the usage of our Platform, which in turn is influenced by the volume of business our Customers conduct. To the extent that weak economic conditions result in a reduced volume of business for our Customers and prospective Customers, demand for, and use of, our Platform, products, and services may decline. If spending by their customers declines, our Customers could process fewer payments with us or, if our Customers cease to operate, they could stop using our Platform and our products and services altogether. Furthermore, weak economic conditions may make it more difficult to collect on outstanding accounts receivable. If, as a result of a weak economy, our Customers reduce their use of our Platform, or prospective Customers delay adoption or elect not to adopt our Platform, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Performance issues in our Platform or our Platforms transaction processing could diminish demand for our Platform or products, adversely affect our business and results of operations, and subject us to liabilities. Our Platform is designed to process a high number of transactions and deliver reports and other information related to those transactions at high processing speeds. Our Customers use our Platform for important aspects of their businesses. Our Issuing Banks use reports and information from our Platform in part to settle card transactions with the Card Networks. Any performance issues, including errors, defects, or disruptions in our Platform or our Platforms transaction processing, could damage our Customers businesses and, in turn, hurt our brand and reputation and erode Customer trust. The risk of performance issues has increased in recent periods due to the significant increase in our TPV. This risk of performance issues further increases with new product launches and geographical expansion. We release regular updates to our Platform, which have in the past contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors, failures, vulnerabilities, and bugs. Additionally, we may experience errors, inaccuracies, or omissions in our processing, reconciling or reporting of transactions. Further, we may be unable to replenish the supply of payment cards issued to our Customers before it is depleted, such that our Customers could run out of cards for a short period of time. Real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs in our Platform or our Platforms transaction processing could result in negative publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our Platform or our products, loss of competitive position, lower Customer retention, claims by Customers, Card Networks, Issuing Banks, or other partners or vendors for losses sustained by them, or other claims, regulatory fines, or proceedings. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for Customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources to help correct the problem. In addition, we may not carry insurance sufficient to compensate us for any losses that may result from claims arising from defects or disruptions in our Platform or operations. As a result, our reputation and our brand could be harmed, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. We, our Customers, our vendors, and others who use or interact with our Platform obtain and process a large amount of sensitive data. Any real or perceived improper or unauthorized use of, disclosure of, or access to such data could expose us to liability and damage our reputation. Our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing, and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, employees, Customers, and end users. The confidentiality, security, and integrity of such sensitive business information residing on our systems is important to our business. Any unauthorized access, intrusion, infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, or similar incident could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security, and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our Customers or vendors. These incidents are often difficult to detect and are constantly evolving, and we or our Customers or vendors may face difficulties or delays in identifying or otherwise responding to any incident. Unauthorized parties have attempted and may continue to attempt to gain access to our Platform, systems, or facilities, and those of our Customers, partners, and vendors, through various means and with increasing sophistication. Currently, there is a threat of attacks against U.S. financial institutions as retaliation against financial institutions for sanctions imposed against Russia as a result of the significant military action against Ukraine launched by Russia. These events could create costly claims and litigation, significant financial liability, regulatory investigations or proceedings, increased regulatory scrutiny, financial sanctions, a loss of confidence in our ability to serve Customers and cause current or potential Customers to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, we expect to continue to invest significant resources to maintain and enhance our information security and controls and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. Although we believe that we maintain a robust data security program, including a responsible disclosure program, and that none of the incidents that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we cannot be certain that the security measures and procedures we have in place to detect security incidents and protect sensitive data, including protection against unauthorized access and use by our employees, will be successful or sufficient to counter all current and emerging technological risks and threats. The impact of a material event involving our systems and data, or those of our Customers or vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents Under Card Network rules and our contracts with our Issuing Banks, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, process, or transmit or that is stored, processed, or transmitted by our Customers or other third parties that we do business with, we could be liable to the Issuing Banks for certain of their costs and expenses. Additionally, if our own confidential business information were improperly disclosed, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The reliability and security of our Platform is a core component of our business. Any perceived or actual breach of security, regardless of how it occurs or the extent of the breach, could have a significant impact on our reputation as a trusted brand, cause us to lose existing Customers, prevent us from obtaining new Customers, require us to expend significant funds to remedy problems caused by breaches and to implement measures to prevent further breaches, and expose us to legal risk and potential liability, including those resulting from governmental or regulatory investigations, class action litigation, and costs associated with remediation, such as fraud monitoring, card reissuance, and forensics. Any actual or perceived security breach at a vendor providing services to us or our Customers could have similar effects. While we maintain cybersecurity insurance, subject to applicable deductibles and policy limitations, our insurance may be insufficient to cover all liabilities incurred by such attacks. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for privacy, data security, and data protection liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that an insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, premiums, or deductibles could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business depends on a strong and trusted brand, and any failure to maintain, protect, enhance, and market our brand would hurt our business. We have developed a strong and trusted brand that has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We believe that maintaining and promoting our brand in a cost-effective manner is important to achieving widespread acceptance of our Platform and the products and services we offer, expanding our base of Customers and end users, and increasing our TPV. Our brand is predicated on the idea that we offer modern payment solutions to our Customers and our Platform helps enable them to successfully operate their businesses. We are dedicated to building and maintaining a Platform our Customers can trust and creating solutions for our Customers who choose to build and grow their businesses with our card programs and other services. Maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide a useful, reliable, secure, and innovative Platform, as well as our ability to maintain trust and be a payments processing innovator and leader. We may, from time to time, introduce, or make changes to, our Platform, products, services, privacy practices, or other practices or terms of service that Customers do not like, which may materially and adversely affect our brand. Brand promotion activities may not generate Customer awareness or increase net revenue, and even if they do, any increase in net revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. In addition, due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions on travel, we have not been able to organize certain marketing and promotional events and in-person meetings to facilitate Customer adoption and generate leads with potential Customers. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expense in this effort, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Harm to our brand can arise from many sources, including failure by us or our partners and vendors to satisfy expectations of service and quality, inadequate protection or misuse of sensitive information, compliance failures and claims, litigation and other claims, and misconduct by our vendors or other counterparties. We may also be the target of incomplete, inaccurate, and misleading or false statements about our company and our business that could damage our brand and deter Customers from adopting our services. Any negative publicity about our company, our industry, the quality and reliability of our Platform, our risk management processes, changes to our products and services, our ability to effectively manage and resolve Customer complaints, our privacy, data protection, and information security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, policy positions, or the experience of our Customers with our Platform, products, and services could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in and use of our Platform, products, and services. If we do not successfully maintain a strong and trusted brand, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents If we fail to offer high-quality Customer support, our business and reputation will suffer. Many of our Customers depend on our Customer support team to assist them in launching and deploying our card programs effectively, help them resolve issues quickly, and provide ongoing support. Our direct, ongoing interactions with our Customers help us tailor offerings to them at scale and in the context of their usage. Our Customer support team also helps increase awareness and usage of our Platform while helping Customers address inquiries and issues. If we do not devote sufficient resources or are otherwise unsuccessful in assisting our Customers effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to retain existing Customers and could prevent prospective Customers from adopting our Platform. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in demand for Customer support. Increased demand for Customer support, without corresponding net revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our sales are highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from Customers. Any failure to maintain high quality Customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high quality Customer support, could erode Customer trust and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, as we continue to grow our operations and reach a larger and increasingly global Customer base, we need to be able to provide efficient Customer support that meets the needs of Customers on our Platform globally and at scale. The number of Customers and end users using our Platform, TPV, the products and services we offer, and usage of our Platform by Customers have all grown significantly and this has put additional pressure on our support organization. If we are unable to provide efficient Customer support globally and at scale, our ability to grow our operations may be adversely affected and we may need to hire additional support personnel, potentially adversely affecting our results of operations. If we fail to adapt to rapid technological changes and develop enhancements and new capabilities for our Platform, our ability to remain competitive could be impaired. We compete in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services, and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. Our ability to attract new Customers and increase net revenue from Customers will depend in significant part on our ability to adapt to industry standards, anticipate trends, and continue to enhance our Platform and introduce new products and capabilities on a timely and secure basis to keep pace with technological developments and Customer expectations. For example, it is important for us to implement tools to support the operational efficiency of our Platform. If we are unable to provide enhancements and new products on our Platform, develop new capabilities that achieve market acceptance, innovate quickly enough to keep pace with rapid technological developments, or experience unintended consequences with enhancements we provide, our business could be adversely affected. For example, our Customers may not adopt enhancements and new products or may not use them as intended. We must also keep pace with changing legal and regulatory regimes that affect our Platform, products, services, and business practices. We may not be successful in developing modifications, enhancements, and improvements, in bringing them to market quickly or cost-effectively in response to market demands, or at modifying our Platform to remain compliant with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, because our Platform is designed to operate directly with the Card Networks, Issuing Banks, and general payments ecosystem, we need to continuously modify and enhance our Platform to keep pace with changes in technologies, while maintaining compatibility and legal and regulatory compliance. Any failure of our Platform to continue to operate effectively with third-party infrastructures and technologies could reduce the demand for our Platform, products, or services, result in the dissatisfaction of our Customers, and materially and adversely affect our business. 40 Table of Contents Our future success depends in part on our ability to expand internationally and drive the adoption of our Platform and products by international Customers. Expanding our business internationally, however, could subject us to new challenges and risks. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we derived 2% of our net revenue from Customers located outside the United States. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to offer our Platform and services internationally and expand our international Customer base. While we have been expanding our Platform, products, services and sales efforts internationally, our experience in selling our Platform, products, and services outside of the United States is early. Our process for identifying countries to expand into may not be successful and may take a considerable amount of time, effort, and expense, and we may not realize benefits from expansion into a particular market. Additionally, the spread of COVID-19 may complicate efforts to expand our business internationally by restricting our ability to travel and engage in certain market diligence, sales and marketing activities abroad. Furthermore, our business model may not be successful or have the same traction outside the United States and we may face additional regulatory hurdles. As a result, our investment in marketing our Platform to these potential Customers may not be successful. If we are unable to increase the net revenue that we derive from international Customers, then our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, expansion, whether in our existing or new international markets, will require additional resources and controls, and offering our Platform in new geographic regions often requires substantial expenditures and takes considerable time. We may not be successful enough in these new geographies to recoup our investments in a timely manner or at all. Such expansion could also subject our business to substantial risks, including: difficulty in attracting a sufficient number of Customers in a given international market; failure to anticipate competitive conditions and competition with market-players that have greater experience and brand recognition in the local markets than we do; conformity with applicable business customs, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; increased costs and difficulty in protecting intellectual property and sensitive data; Increased costs from local Card Networks, Bank Identification Number, or BIN, sponsors, and other local providers locally; changes to the way we do business or price our products and services as compared with our current operations or a lack of acceptance of our Platform or certain products and services; the ability to support and integrate with local BIN sponsors and third-party vendors; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations in an environment of diverse culture, laws, and customs, and other challenges caused by distance; language and cultural differences, and the increased travel, infrastructure, and legal and compliance costs associated with global operations; difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees and maintaining our company culture; difficulty in gaining acceptance from industry self-regulatory bodies; compliance with multiple, potentially conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including with respect to payment processing, data privacy, data protection, and information security; compliance with U.S. and foreign anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-money laundering laws; potential tariffs, sanctions, fines, or other trade restrictions, including any political or economic responses and counter-responses or otherwise by various global actors to the significant military action against Ukraine launched by Russia; exchange rate risk and Interchange Fee regulation in foreign countries; compliance with complex and potentially conflicting and changing laws of taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business and applicable U.S. tax laws; and 41 Table of Contents regional economic and political instability or war, including the significant military action against Ukraine launched by Russia. As a result of these risks, our efforts to expand our global operations may not be successful, potentially limiting our ability to grow our business. In addition, we do not currently have operations in Russia or plans to expand there, and, based on the actions taken by certain Card Networks, to our knowledge no Marqeta-powered card could currently operate in Russia. It is unclear, however, whether the significant military action against Ukraine launched by Russia will have any broader implications that may impact our business and results of operations. We may incur losses relating to the settlement of payment transactions and the fraudulent use of payment cards issued through our Platform. We are and will continue to be subject to the risk of losses relating to the day-to-day settlement of payment transactions that is inherent in our business model, including with respect to pre-funding and chargeback requests. Customers deposit a certain amount of pre-funding into their Customer account at our Issuing Banks. However, depending on the model of the card program and the timing of funding and transactions, some transactions that exceed the amount of pre-funding in the Customers account are still authorized. Customers are ultimately responsible for fulfilling their obligations to fund transactions. However, when a Customer does not have sufficient funds to settle a transaction, we are liable to the Issuing Bank to settle the transaction and may incur losses as a result of claims from the Issuing Bank. We would seek to recover such losses from the Customer, but we may not fully recover them if the Customer is unwilling or unable to pay due to their financial condition. Because we are liable to the Issuing Banks, we may also bear the risk of losses if a Customer does not provide payment due to fraudulent or disputed transactions. Additionally, when a chargeback request is approved, the purchase price of the transaction is refunded to the Customers end users account through our Platform. If we do not properly process the chargeback, the Customer may request that we fund the refunded amount to their end user. We have in the past, and may in the future, incur costs relating to the improper processing of chargeback requests. Additionally, criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities which they may use to target us, including skimming, counterfeit payment cards, and identity theft. A single, significant incident or a series of incidents of fraud or theft involving cards issued through our Platform could result in reputational damage to us, potentially reducing the use and acceptance of our Platform or lead to greater regulation that would increase our compliance costs. Fraudulent activity could also result in the imposition of regulatory sanctions, including significant monetary fines. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are also subject to risk from fraudulent acts of employees or contractors. We depend on our executive officers and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of these employees or an inability to attract and retain other highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees. There have been changes in the past, recent changes, and there may be changes in the future, to our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. For example, we recently appointed a new Chief Financial Officer effective February 22, 2022. Additionally, from time to time we may reorganize the Companys departments in an effort to increase efficiencies or better serve our Customers, including consolidating groups under existing or new executives. For example, we recently consolidated the marketing team, including our sales development representatives, and business development team, including strategic, enterprise, and emerging sales units as well as our partnerships teams, into one go-to-market function under our Chief Operating Officer, Vidya Peters. Any employment agreements we have with our executive officers or other key personnel do not require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. Additionally, we do not maintain any key person insurance policies. The loss of one or more of our executive officers, especially our Chief Executive Officer, or other key employees could adversely affect our business. Changes in our executive management team may also cause disruptions in, and adverse impacts to, our business. 42 Table of Contents In addition, to maintain and grow our business, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense across the markets we target, especially for highly skilled employees and experienced sales professionals. We have from time to time experienced, are currently experiencing, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, at a speed that is consistent with our business needs, and at an appropriate cost, which may be compounded as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Any changes to U.S. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to recruit and retain highly qualified employees. We must also effectively manage employee skills, competency requirements, and development plans to retain qualified employees once hired. Many of the companies we compete with for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached certain legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of time and resources, and potential liability for us or our employees. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the value of our equity awards declines, it may impair our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we are not able to add and retain employees effectively, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely affected, and our business and growth prospects will be adversely affected. Further, additions of executive-level management and large numbers of employees could significantly and adversely impact our culture. The volatility in or lack of appreciation of the trading price of our Class A common stock may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Many of our senior personnel and other key employees have become, or will become, vested in a substantial amount of restricted stock units, or RSUs, or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options or RSUs have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase price of the shares or the exercise price of the options, or conversely, if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our Class A common stock. If we do not maintain and continue to develop our corporate culture as we grow and evolve, including our diversity and inclusion efforts, it could impair our ability to foster the innovation, teamwork, curiosity, and diversity that we believe is necessary to support our growth. Exposure to political developments in the United Kingdom, including the United Kingdoms decision to leave the European Union, could adversely affect us. On June 23, 2016, a referendum was held on the U.K.s membership in the European Union, or the EU, resulting in a vote in favor of leaving the European Union. Effective as of January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally withdrew its membership from the European Union. The U.K.s decision to leave the European Union has created an uncertain political and economic environment in the U.K. and across other European Union member states. The political and economic instability created by the U.K.s decision to leave the European Union has caused and may continue to cause volatility in global financial markets and the value of the British Pound or other currencies, including the Euro. In addition, this uncertainty may cause some of our Customers or potential Customers to curtail or delay spending or adoption of our Platform. Depending on the market and regulatory effects of the U.K.s exit from the European Union, it is possible that there may be adverse practical or operational implications on our business. For example, the U.K. Data Protection Act, which implemented the EUs General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, was amended January 1, 2021 to reflect the U.K.s status outside the European Union. It remains unclear, however, how U.K. data protection laws or regulations will develop and be interpreted in the medium to longer term, how data transfers to and from the U.K. will be regulated, and how those regulations may differ from those in the European Union. While we have taken measures to preemptively address the impact of the U.K.s departure from the European Union by including contingency clauses in our European Union master service agreements, for example, these may not adequately protect us from adverse implications on our business. Further, the U.K.s exit from the European Union may create increased compliance costs and an uncertain regulatory landscape for offering equity-based incentives to our employees in the U.K. If we are unable to maintain equity-based incentive programs for our employees in the U.K. due to the departure of the U.K. from the European Union, our business in the U.K. may suffer and we may face legal claims from employees in the U.K. to whom we previously offered equity-based incentive programs. 43 Table of Contents These and other factors related to the departure of the U.K. from the European Union may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such fluctuations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As we continue to expand our global operations, we become more exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our Customer contracts are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, and therefore the majority of our net revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. We expect, however, to significantly expand the number of transactions with Customers that are denominated in foreign currencies in the future as we continue to expand our business internationally. We also incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our non-U.S. locations in the local currency for such locations. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could result in an increase to the U.S. dollar equivalent of such expenses and, as a result, adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge exposures in foreign currencies. In the future, however, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. If our estimates or judgments relating to our accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates in part on historical experience, market observable inputs, if available, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of net revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition and accounting for share-based compensation. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. We may require additional capital to support our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business and may require additional funds. In particular, we may seek additional funds to develop new products and enhance our Platform and existing products, expand our operations, including our sales and marketing organizations and our presence outside of the United States, improve our infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets. In addition, we are using a portion of our cash to satisfy tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the vesting of RSUs. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Any debt financing that we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, potentially making it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth, scale our infrastructure, develop product enhancements, and respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. 44 Table of Contents Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances could be difficult to identify, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions. We may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement our Platform, products, and services or expand the breadth of our Platform, enhance our products and capabilities, expand our geographic reach or Customer base, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential investments or acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable opportunities, whether or not they are consummated. Any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In addition, we have limited experience in investing in and acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired personnel, operations, and technologies, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. Specifically, we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. We may not be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any one target. We may be required to issue equity or debt securities to acquire businesses which could dilute our shareholders or adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may suffer. We have made, and may in the future seek to make, strategic investments in early stage companies developing products or technologies that we believe could complement our Platform or expand its breadth, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. These investments may be in early stage private companies for restricted stock. Such investments are generally illiquid and may never generate value. Further, we may invest in companies that do not succeed, and our investments may lose all or some of their value, which result in us recording impairment charges reflected in of results of operations. We may be subject to litigation for a variety of claims, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In the ordinary course of business, we may be involved in and subject to litigation for a variety of claims or disputes and receive regulatory inquiries. These claims, lawsuits, and proceedings could include labor and employment, wage and hour, commercial, antitrust, alleged securities law violations or other investor claims, and other matters. The number and significance of these potential claims and disputes may increase as our business expands. Further, our general liability insurance may not cover all potential claims made against us or be sufficient to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any claim against us, regardless of its merit, could be costly, divert managements attention and operational resources, and harm our reputation. As litigation is inherently unpredictable, we cannot assure you that any potential claims or disputes will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 45 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Regulation Our business is subject to extensive regulation and oversight in a variety of areas, directly and indirectly through our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, which regulations are subject to change and to uncertain interpretation. We, our vendors, our partners, and our Customers are subject to a wide variety of state, federal, and international laws, regulations, and industry standards in the United States and in other countries where we operate both directly and indirectly through our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks. These laws, regulations, industry standards, and rules govern numerous areas important to our business. While we currently operate our business in an effort to ensure our business itself is not subject to extensive regulation, the Issuing Banks and Card Networks that we partner with operate in a highly regulated landscape, and there is a risk that those regulations could become applicable to us. We are directly subject to regulation in areas including privacy, data security, data protection, and anti-bribery, and our contractual relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks subject us to additional regulations including those relating to payments services (such as payment processing and settlement services), consumer protection, anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, escheatment, international sanctions regimes, data privacy and security, intellectual property, and compliance with the PCI DSS, a data security standard obligating companies that process, store, or transmit payment card information to maintain security measures designed to protect cardholder data. The laws, rules, regulations, and standards applicable to our business are enforced by multiple authorities and governing bodies in the United States, including federal agencies, self-regulatory organizations, and numerous state agencies. Outside of the United States, we may be subject to additional regulators. As we expand into new jurisdictions, or expand our Platform and product offerings in existing jurisdictions, the number of foreign regulations and regulators governing our business will expand as well. In addition, as our business and Platform continue to develop and expand, we may become subject to additional rules, regulations, and industry standards. We may not always accurately predict the scope or applicability of certain regulations to our business, particularly as we expand into new areas of operations, which could have a significant negative effect on our existing business and our ability to pursue future plans. In addition to laws and regulations that apply directly to us, we are contractually subject to certain laws and regulations through our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, which operate in a highly regulated industry. Additionally, as a program manager, we are responsible for ensuring compliance with Issuing Banks requirements and Card Network rules, and we help create regulatory compliant card programs for our Customers. In some cases, our inability to ensure such compliance could expose us to liability or indemnification claims from our Customers or partners. Furthermore, legislative and regulatory changes could prompt our Issuing Banks to alter the extent or the terms of their dealings with us in ways that may have adverse consequences for our business. For example, due to our relationships with certain Issuing Banks and Card Networks, we may be subject to indirect supervision and examination by the CFPB, which is engaged in rulemaking and regulation of the payments industry, including, among other things, the regulation of prepaid cards, buy now, pay later financing programs, and the enforcement of certain protections under applicable regulations. While reform in the payment industry, such as the formation of the CFPB, has focused on individual consumer protection, legislatures continue to consider whether to include business customers, especially smaller business customers, within the scope of these regulations. As a result, new or expanded regulation focusing on business customers or changes in interpretation or enforcement of regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition due to increased compliance costs and new restrictions affecting the terms we offer our Platform or our products and services under. 46 Table of Contents A majority of our net revenue is derived from Interchange Fees and we expect Interchange Fees to continue to represent a significant percentage of our net revenue in the near term. The amount of Interchange Fees we earn is highly dependent on the interchange rates that the Card Networks set and adjust. From time to time, Card Networks change the Interchange Fees and assessments they charge for transactions processed using their networks. Interchange Fees or assessments are also subject to change from time to time due to government regulation. Interchange Fees are the subject of intense legal and regulatory scrutiny and competitive pressures in the electronic payments industry. For example, the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which limits Interchange Fees, may restrict or otherwise impact the way we do business or limit our ability to charge certain fees to Customers. Issuing Banks that are exempt from the Durbin Amendment are able to access higher interchange rates. As a result, to maximize our Interchange Fees, we currently only contract with Issuing Banks that are exempt from the Durbin Amendment when we provide program management services. Changes in regulation or additional rulemaking may adversely affect the way we conduct our business or result in additional compliance obligations and expense for our business and limitations on net revenue. For example, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System recently proposed a change to the regulations implemented pursuant to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to clarify that e-commerce transactions can be routed over secondary, unaffiliated debit card networks that generally set lower Interchange Fees. If implemented, we may experience a reduction in net revenue derived from Interchange Fees. Interchange Fee regulation also exists in other countries where our Customers use payment cards and such regulation could adversely affect our business in other foreign regions. Any changes in the Interchange Fees associated with our Customers card transactions could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving, unclear, and inconsistent across jurisdictions, and ensuring compliance with them is difficult and costly. With increasing frequency, federal and state regulators are holding businesses in the payments industry to higher standards of training, monitoring, and compliance, including monitoring for possible violations of laws by our Customers and people who do business with our Customers while using our Platform or products. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business in a timely and appropriate manner, we may be subject to litigation or regulatory proceedings, we may have to pay fines and penalties, and our client relationships and reputation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Further, while we do not handle or interact with cryptocurrency and we only process transactions on our Platform in fiat currencies, certain cryptocurrency businesses use our Platform to provide card products to their customers and end users. The regulation of cryptocurrency is rapidly evolving and varies significantly among international, federal, state, and local jurisdictions and is subject to substantial uncertainty. Various legislative and executive bodies in the U.S. and other countries may adopt laws, regulations, or guidance, or take other actions, which may impact our Issuing Banks and restrain the growth of cryptocurrency businesses and in turn impact the net revenue associated with our cryptocurrency business Customers. 47 Table of Contents Regulations and industry standards related to privacy and data protection could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our services. Governmental bodies and industry organizations in the United States and abroad have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations restricting the use of, and requiring safeguarding of, personal information. For example, in the United States, all financial institutions must undertake certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. Further, the California Consumer Privacy Act became effective on January 1, 2020 and imposes additional restrictions on the collection, processing, and disclosure of personal information, including imposing increased penalties on data privacy incidents. Additionally, a new privacy law, the California Privacy Rights Act, or the CPRA, creates additional obligations relating to personal information that take effect on January 1, 2023 (with certain provisions having retroactive effect to January 1, 2022). The CPRAs implementing regulations are expected on or before July 1, 2022, and enforcement is scheduled to begin July 1, 2023. We will continue to monitor developments related to the CPRA and anticipate additional costs and expenses associated with CPRA compliance. Other U.S. states also are considering omnibus privacy legislation and industry organizations regularly adopt and advocate for new standards in these areas. Many obligations under these other laws and legislative proposals remain uncertain, and we cannot fully predict their impact on our business. If we fail to comply with any of these laws or standards, we may be subject to investigations, enforcement actions, civil litigation, fines and other penalties, all of which may generate negative publicity and have a negative impact on our business. In the European Economic Area, the GDPR, which became effective in 2018, extends the scope of European Union data protection law to all companies processing personal data of European Union residents, regardless of the companys location, and requires companies to meet stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data. The GDPR also imposes some limitations on international transfers of personal data. The GDPR imposes substantial obligations and risk upon our business and provides for significant penalties in the event of any non-compliance. Administrative fines under the GDPR can amount up to 20 million Euros or four percent of a company groups annual global turnover, whichever is higher. Further, following the exit of the U.K. from the European Union, it remains unclear how the U.K. Data Protection Act, which implemented the GDPR in the U.K., and other U.K. data protection laws or regulations will develop in the medium to longer term and how data transfers to and from the U.K. will be regulated. We have incurred substantial expense in complying with new data protection legal frameworks and we may be required to make additional, significant changes in our business operations, all of which may adversely affect our net revenue and our business overall. Additionally, because these new regimes lack a substantial enforcement history, we are unable to predict how emerging standards may be applied to us. Among other requirements, the GDPR regulates transfers of personal data subject to the GDPR to third countries that have not been found to provide adequate protection to such personal data, including the United States. On July 16, 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidated the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, eliminating one of the mechanisms we had relied on to legitimize EU-U.S. data transfers. The court, however, approved an alternative transfer mechanism that we rely on known as the standard contractual clauses provided additional safeguards are in place. We are in the process of assessing this decision and its impact on our data transfer mechanisms. It is possible that the decision will restrict the ability to transfer personal data from the European Union to the United States. We (and many other companies) may need to implement different or additional measures to establish or maintain legitimate means for the transfer and receipt of personal data from the European Union to the United States, and we may, in addition to other impacts, experience additional costs associated with increased compliance burdens, and we and our Customers face the potential for regulators to apply different standards to the transfer of personal data from the European Union and Switzerland to the United States, and to block, or require ad hoc verification of measures taken with respect to, certain personal data transfers from the European Union and Switzerland to the United States. Any inability to transfer personal data from the European Union to the United States in compliance with data protection laws or otherwise comply with requirements in this rapidly changing environment may impede our ability to attract and retain Customers unless and until we build out an EU-compliant data processing center. These restrictions may adversely affect our business and financial position. Some countries are also considering or have passed legislation requiring local storage and processing of data, or similar requirements, potentially increasing the cost and complexity of our operations. 48 Table of Contents In connection with providing services to our Customers, we are required by certain self-regulatory frameworks and contractual arrangements with Card Networks and Issuing Banks to provide assurances regarding the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer information, including the PCI DSS. Further, certain Customers increasingly expect us to comply with more stringent privacy, data protection and information security requirements than those imposed by laws, regulations or self-regulatory requirements, and we may be obligated contractually to comply with additional or different standards relating to our handling or protection of data on or by our offerings. The compliance standards relate to our infrastructure, components, and operational procedures designed to safeguard the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer personal information received from our Customers in the course of providing services. Our ability to maintain compliance with these standards and meet our Customers requirements may affect our ability to attract and maintain business in the future. If we fail to comply with these standards or Customer requirements, or are alleged to have done so, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, potentially in addition to governmental proceedings. In addition, our Customer relationships and reputation could be adversely affected, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new Customers. If more restrictive or burdensome laws, rules, or regulations related to privacy, data protection, or information security are adopted by authorities in the future on the federal or state level or internationally, or if existing laws, rules, or regulations become subject to new or differing interpretations or enforcement, or if we become bound by additional obligations to our Customers relating to privacy, data protection, or information security, including any additional compliance standards relating to non-public consumer personal information, our compliance and operational costs may increase, our opportunities for growth may be curtailed by our compliance capabilities or reputational harm, we may find it necessary or appropriate to modify our data processing practices or policies or otherwise restrict our operations, and our potential liability in connection with breaches or incidents relating to privacy, data protection, and information security may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. There may continue to be changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or new proposed laws, regulations, industry standards, and other obligations concerning privacy, data protection and information security, which could impair our or our Customers ability to collect, use or disclose information relating to consumers, which could decrease demand for our offerings, increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain and grow our Customer base and increase our net revenue. Because the interpretation and application of many existing and emerging laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection and information security, along with industry standards, are uncertain, it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in new ways that are, or are alleged to be, inconsistent with our data management practices or the features of our products, and we could face fines, lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other claims and penalties, and we could be required to fundamentally change our products or our business practices, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy, data protection and information security concerns, even if unfounded, or any actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy, data protection or information security laws, regulations, standards and other obligations, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, standards and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our Customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our Platform and our products and services. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as our partners or vendors, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also put information we process at risk and could in turn adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. 49 Table of Contents We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal penalties or significant fines and adversely affect our business and reputation. We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery and similar laws, such as the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-money laundering laws in countries where we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been interpreted broadly and enforced aggressively in recent years, and prohibit companies and their employees and agents from promising, authorizing, making, or offering improper payments or other benefits to government officials and others in the private sector to influence official action, direct business to any person, gain any improper advantage, or obtain or retain business. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. In addition, in the future we may use third parties to conduct business on our behalf abroad. We or such future third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities, and we can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of such future third-party intermediaries and our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. We have implemented an anti-corruption compliance program but cannot assure you that all our employees and agents, as well as those companies we outsource certain of our business operations to, will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any violation of the FCPA, other applicable anti-corruption laws, or anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, prosecutions, loss of export privileges, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, substantial diversion of managements attention, significant legal fees and fines, settlements, damages, severe criminal or civil sanctions, penalties or injunctions against us, our officers or our employees, disgorgement of profits, and other sanctions, enforcement actions and remedial measures, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, business, trading price, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may be subject to governmental export controls and economic sanctions regulations that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and could subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws. Certain of our products and services may be subject to export control and economic sanctions regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control. Exports of our products and the provision of our services must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including: the possible loss of export privileges; fines imposed on us and responsible employees or managers; and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. In addition, changes in applicable export or economic sanctions regulations may create delays in the introduction and deployment of our Platform, products, and services in international markets, or, in some cases, prevent the use of our Platform and products or provision of our services in certain countries or with certain end users. Any change in export or economic sanctions regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations, could also result in decreased use of our Platform, products, and services or in our decreased ability to provide our products and services to existing or prospective Customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our Platform, products, or services or limitation on our ability to provide our Platform, products, or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 50 Table of Contents Further, we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our products. Various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our Customers ability to use our products in those countries if our products are subject to such laws and regulations. While we believe our encryption products meet certain exceptions that reduce the scope of export control restrictions applicable to such products, these exceptions may be determined not to apply to our encryption products and our products and underlying technology may become subject to export control restrictions. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of exports of encryption products, or our failure to obtain required approval for our products, when applicable, could adversely affect our international sales and net revenue. If we were required to comply with regulatory requirements regarding the export of our Platform and products and provision of our services, including with respect to new releases of our products and services, we may experience delays introducing our Platform in international markets, our Customers with international operations may experience difficulty deploying our Platform and products and using our services, or, in some cases, we may be prevented from exporting our Platform or products or providing our services to some countries altogether. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure