Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a more detailed discussion of our strategy and key operating metric. The Payments Ecosystem With every tap, swipe, or payment, a lot happens behind the scenes. The payments ecosystem of Issuing Banks, Acquiring Banks, Acquirer Processors, Issuer Processors, and Card Networks facilitates the exchange of information and funds and underpins global payment card purchase transactions. Acquirer Processors connect Acquiring Banks and merchants to the Card Networks, to facilitate the flow of card payment information to an Issuing Bank. Acquiring Banks are the financial institutions that merchants use to hold funds and manage their business. Acquiring Banks may work with an Acquirer Processor to provide access to the Card Networks. Card Networks provide the infrastructure for settlement and card payment information that flows between an Issuer Processor and an Acquirer Processor. Issuer Processors provide a technology platform, ledger, and infrastructure to support a card issuer and connects with a Card Network to facilitate payment transactions. Issuing Banks are the financial institution that issue a payment card (debit, prepaid, or credit) either on its own behalf or on behalf of a business. 4 Table of Contents Our Platform and Products Marqeta provides a single, global, cloud-based, open API platform for modern card issuing and transaction processing. Marqetas modern platform enables customers to build and rapidly scale their card programs with extensive control and configurability, and with high standards of reliability and security. Our platform is designed to reduce complexity for customers, enabling a full spectrum of consumer and commercial card issuing and transaction processing services in a single solution. We overlay robust program management expertise to help our customers design a customer-centric card program without requiring expertise in all of the nuances of managing a program themselves. A key aspect of our modern platform is that our debit, prepaid, and credit offerings are all available in a combined offering, enabling customers to offer multiple products through Marqetas platform. For example, a retail company could use Marqeta to create a debit program to offer wage solutions to its hourly workers, a consumer credit program to its most loyal shoppers, and a commercial credit program to key suppliers to meet its working capital needs. These programs can all exist on Marqetas single, global, modern platform. Our platform has a number of key attributes, including: Control: Dynamic spend controls and Just-in-Time Funding (JIT Funding) provide customers with control over the payments flow. 5 Table of Contents Scale: Global platform built on a cloud-native infrastructure and a suite of APIs to support our customers worldwide with a build-once, deploy-anywhere model. Configurable: Highly configurable capabilities empower our customers to build native solutions tailored to their customer needs. Trust: We comply with applicable obligations under the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) and provide a trusted environment for card issuing and payment processing with security, transparency, and real-time information. Card Issuing Our customers can issue debit, prepaid, and credit cards, including instant provision of a tokenized card to a digital wallet. Debit: Customers can link card products to a primary bank account for their users to fund and spend from. Prepaid: Customers can create single- or multi-use custom card experiences with dynamic spend controls and fund transactions in real time based upon business criteria. Credit: Customers can create customized consumer and commercial credit programs with innovative rewards structures, leveraging pre-integrated partners for underwriting, mobile app design, and customer service. Virtual: Customers can instantly issue one-time or multi-use branded payment cards that are ready to use immediately and enable faster funds disbursement with easier tracking of funds by unique virtual card numbers. Physical: Customers can customize the look and feel, graphics, and messaging of physical cards to reinforce their brand. Physical cards can be magstripe, EMV-chip, and/or tap-to-pay enabled. Tokenization & Digital Wallets: Customers can instantly issue branded payment cards that are ready to use immediately in app or in mobile wallets, which provides for continuity if the physical cards are lost or stolen. Processing Marqeta enables our customers to deliver innovative card experiences with enhanced control over transaction processing through dynamic spend controls and real-time decisioning via our JIT Funding feature. Dynamic Spend Control: Dynamic spend controls create unique card experiences while reducing customer exposure to risk by limiting where users can transact and configuring exact spend limits. Customers can tailor cards with flexibility in where, when, and how much the card can be used. Customers can also check real-time data and events to dynamically change the card experience as needed. JIT Funding: Marqetas JIT Funding feature enables customer cards to maintain a zero-amount balance until the card is used and approved. Upon approval, Marqeta automatically moves funds from an identified funding source into the appropriate account. Digital Banking Marqeta for Banking provides our customers with access to a suite of bank account and money movement features offered through our Issuing Bank partners, including demand deposit accounts, direct deposit with early pay, ACH, cash loads, and fee-free ATMs, bill pay, and instant funding capabilities. These services enable customers to drive additional engagement and spend by making it easy for their users to fund accounts and manage money. RiskControl With Marqetas RiskControl product, certain risk and compliance concerns are mitigated while reducing friction across the cardholder lifecycle. Real-Time Decisioning: Customers can mitigate fraud using Marqetas Real-Time Decisioning solution, which provides fine-tuned control over card transactions. 6 Table of Contents Customer Identification Program: Customers can verify the identity of cardholder applicants. 3D Secure: Customers can authenticate cardholders and authorize online transactions. Disputes Management: Customers can manage disputes and chargebacks at scale with streamlined disputes management, including risk management services to handle disputes on their behalf. Dashboard The Marqeta Dashboard is a comprehensive self-service portal that empowers our customers to access and manage all aspects of their card program, including card configuration, servicing cardholders, tracking data and insights, managing disputes, and accessing RiskControl capabilities. UI/UX User experience is an essential part of all Marqeta programs. Marqeta makes it easy for our customers to completely integrate the card experience into any app or website. For our credit customers, they can select a fully bank-approved UI template that's purpose-built for managing a credit card. In 2024, we introduced the UX Toolkit, which allows customers to create branded front-end experiences using a comprehensive set of pre-built UI components optimized for Marqeta's APIs. It enables customers to build Marqeta-powered debit and credit programs with fewer development resources. Credit Capabilities With Marqetas credit products, our customers have the tools to design, launch, and scale, and can work directly with us rather than managing several different providers. Customers can customize the user experience and embed the card within their brands. Our ability to offer configurable and flexible solutions enables our customers to build highly differentiated programs with truly personalized rewards and spend controls. Innovative Rewards Structures: Customers can leverage our proprietary rewards engine, keeping users engaged with innovative rewards structures using multiple data points across user spend as well as transactions, repayments, and other data points. Our comprehensive platform enables customers to reward users in real time with multiple redemption options, creating opportunities to drive engagement and usage. Underwriting Support: Our underwriting decisioning engine allows Issuing Banks and customers to implement custom fraud and credit decisioning criteria to help manage program fraud and delinquency risk. Our comprehensive platform allows for automated decisioning using a variety of data sources and custom logic. Portfolio Migration In 2024, we launched Portfolio Migration, a new service that simplifies upgrading existing card programs onto our platform, reducing complexity and minimizing disruption during the transition. This capability includes two main components: an automated migration tool that transforms and aligns card program data from the previous system to Marqeta's platform, as well as operational processes to ensure a smooth transition. Marqeta Flex In 2024, we announced Marqeta Flex, a new solution that we believe will transform how buy now, pay later (BNPL) payment options can be delivered inside payment apps and wallets, by surfacing them when needed within the payment flow. Marqeta Flex is being developed with a few of our customers, and we expect to release it in 2025. With Marqeta Flex, we plan to expand BNPL distribution even further by giving consumers access to personalized BNPL options inside of their payment apps of choice. The intended benefits of Marqeta Flex for consumers, BNPL providers, and issuers include: Consumers: With Marqeta Flex, consumers will be guided to the BNPL options that can meet their needs, with access to personalized BNPL options inside of the payment apps they use most often. BNPL Providers: Marqeta Flex is expected to expand BNPL distribution, enabling BNPL providers to benefit from greater access to consumers and higher transaction volumes. 7 Table of Contents Card Issuers: We believe Marqeta Flex will be a powerful solution for digital wallets and card issuers, allowing them to drive payment volume by incorporating multiple BNPL offerings into the transaction experience that can be customized to user preferences. A single integration with Marqeta Flex is intended to provide them access to a variety of global BNPL providers, and is expected to increase the speed at which they can build and launch card solutions that offer flexible payment methods, including custom and user-friendly BNPL loan options. Our Programs Marqetas innovative products are developed with deep domain expertise and a customer-first mindset to launch, scale, and manage card programs. Marqeta provides all of its customers with issuer processor services, and for most of its customers it also acts as a card program manager. Depending on a customers desired level of control and responsibility, Marqeta can work with companies in a range of different configurations, but generally provide the following offerings: Managed By Marqeta: With Managed By Marqeta (MxM), Marqeta typically connects customers to an Issuing Bank to act as the Bank Identification Number (BIN) sponsor for the customers card program, manages the customers card program on behalf of the Issuing Bank, and provides a full range of services including configuring many of the critical resources required by a customers production environment. In addition to providing the customer access to the Marqeta dashboard via our APIs, Marqeta also manages a number of the primary tasks related to launching a card program, such as defining and managing the program with the Card Networks and Issuing Bank, operating the program and managing certain profitability components, and managing compliance with applicable regulations, the Issuing Bank, and Card Network rules. Also available are a variety of managed services, including dispute management, fraud scoring, card fulfillment, reconciliation, and cardholder support services. Powered By Marqeta: With Powered By Marqeta (PxM), Marqeta also provides customers access to the Marqeta dashboard via our APIs, provides payment processing, and assists with certain configuration elements that enable the customer to use the platform independently. Generally, our PxM customers are responsible for other elements of the card program, including defining and managing the program with the Card Networks and Issuing Bank as well as managing compliance with applicable regulations, the Issuing Bank, and Card Network rules. Given the modularity of the Marqeta platform, certain customers can also opt to incorporate elements of MxM into their card program to create a custom solution. Many customers adopt some combination of the MxM managed services even when not adopting the full MxM offering. Our Customers Marqeta serves customers in multiple industry verticals including financial services, on-demand services, BNPL, expense management, and e-commerce enablement. We see embedded finance as a significant contributor to our next wave of growth. There are two critical components to embedded finance: native integration and non-financial services businesses. It starts with a company whose core business is not financial services, and that company offers financial services products in a manner that is natively embedded into their existing customer experience. It is seamless, and, to put it simply, you don't have to go to the bank. The bank comes to you where you already spend. With embedded finance, enterprises across industries can offer multiple financial services to their customers to improve the user experience, enhance loyalty, and add another monetization engine to their existing business. Marqetas platform operates across a number of use cases for customers, including consumer credit cards, point-of-sale lending, accelerated/earned wage access, expense management, on-demand delivery, and spend management. Customers can also combine solutions across different use cases. 8 Table of Contents Agreements with Large Customers Block On April 19, 2016, we entered into a master services agreement with Block, Inc., formerly known as Square, Inc., as subsequently amended (the Block Agreement), which includes the commercial terms of our relationship with Block. Pursuant to the terms of the Block Agreement, we have agreed to manage Blocks Cash App, Square Debit Card, and Square Card Canada card issuing programs for Block. On January 31, 2022, Block completed its acquisition of our customer, Afterpay Limited. We have a separate agreement with Afterpay that provides for the commercial terms of our relationship; however, we now aggregate Afterpay as part of our Block business for purposes of financial reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings we make with the SEC. We executed contract amendments on August 4, 2023 (the August 2023 Block Amendment) and November 3, 2023 (the November 2023 Block Amendment, and, together with the August 2023 Block Amendment, the 2023 Block Amendments) to the Block Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the 2023 Block Amendments, the term of the Cash App and the Square Debit Card programs will expire on June 30, 2028 and automatically renew thereafter for successive one-year periods, unless terminated earlier by either party. The August 2023 Block Amendment provides that we will continue to provide various services to Block, though Block will be responsible for defining and managing the Cash App program with respect to the primary Card Network going forward, including being responsible for managing the financial relationship between the Cash App program and the primary Card Network, choosing the card brand, determining the product type, and meeting program parameters. The August 2023 Block Amendment also includes a continuation of services for the Cash App program for a period of time in the event of a change of control of Marqeta. The November 2023 Block Amendment provides that we will be the default provider of issuing processing and related services in current or future markets outside of the U.S. where Block intends to operate and Marqeta is able to provide issuing processing services, subject to certain exceptions. Either we or Block may terminate the Block Agreement under certain specified circumstances, including upon a material breach. The Block Agreement also provides for certain other terms, including representations and warranties of the parties, intellectual property rights, data ownership and security, limitations on liability, confidentiality and indemnification rights, and other covenants. In addition, on March 13, 2021, and as specified in the Block Agreement, we granted Block a warrant to purchase up to 1,100,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share, which is exercisable upon attaining certain milestones relating to Blocks creation of a specified percentage of new cardholders on our platform each year over a three-year period. Block has achieved their warrant milestones and 1,100,000 shares have vested but remain unexercised as of December 31, 2024. Our Relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks Marqeta works with Card Networks and Issuing Banks to enable card issuance, authorize transactions, and facilitate settlement for our customers card programs. Our contractual relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks underpin Marqetas ability to design and manage customized card programs for our customers. Relationship and Agreements with Issuing Banks When our customers engage us to do so, we connect them with an Issuing Bank to act as the BIN sponsor for the customers card program and we are responsible for managing compliance with the Issuing Banks requirements and Card Network rules. Issuing Banks provide services for these customers that can include, among other things, card issuance, Card Network sponsorship, establishing a line of credit, and creating deposit accounts used to settle transactions. Our contracts with Issuing Banks entitle Marqeta to all of the Interchange Fees generated from our customers card programs, which we then share with our customers through Revenue Share payments, and obligate us to pay all Card Network fees as well as certain Issuing Bank fees associated with our customers card transactions. See the section titled Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsComponents of Results of OperationsNet Revenue for the definitions of Interchange Fees and Revenue Share. 9 Table of Contents While an Issuing Bank must ultimately approve each card program, Marqeta configures the program design, negotiates key program terms, and selects the Issuing Bank for each customer. Marqeta actively works to find the most appropriate Issuing Bank partner for the potential card program based on the customers needs and program design. We pay volume-based and transaction-based fees to the Issuing Banks. The fees are typically structured based on volume tiers; as our processing volumes grow, these fees as a percentage of processing volume decline. These fees are reflected in our costs of revenue. When our customers engage us for PxM services, we do not manage the customers relationships with the Issuing Banks or Card Networks and the customer is responsible for managing compliance with, among other things, the Issuing Banks requirements and Card Network rules. Certain customers engage us for a combination of our MxM and PxM services based on their unique needs. The involvement of our Issuing Banks and the Card Networks in these types of programs will depend on each programs design. Sutton Bank On April 1, 2016, we entered into a prepaid card program manager agreement with Sutton Bank, our largest Issuing Bank partner by processing volume. Under the terms of the agreement, as amended, Sutton Bank, among other things, issues cards and settles payment transactions for Marqetas customers approved card programs. The agreement provides that we pay Sutton Bank a fee based on a percentage of the value of transactions processed. Under this agreement we are entitled to receive 100% of the Interchange Fees for processing our customers card transactions. Our agreement with Sutton Bank requires us to indemnify Sutton Bank for certain losses, subject to specific enumerated exceptions. Under certain circumstances, the agreement also requires us to pay termination fees, including fees and costs to Sutton Bank, if we terminate the agreement before the end of its term or any automatic renewal term. The current term of the agreement expires in 2028, after which it automatically renews on the same terms and conditions for a two-year renewal term, unless either party provides written notice of its intent not to renew at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the then-current term. Either we or Sutton Bank may terminate the agreement under certain specified circumstances, including if the other party commits a material breach that is not cured within 30 days. Agreements with Card Networks The Card Networks oversee their worldwide payment networks, through which debit, credit, and prepaid card payments are authorized, processed, and settled, and, except as limited by applicable law, set Interchange Fee rates. We currently partner with a number of Card Networks, including Visa, Mastercard, and PULSE, to process our customers transactions on our platform. When engaged by our customers to do so, Marqeta arranges for our customers to use one or more of the available Card Networks. We generally include the standard Card Network fees in the pricing arrangements with these customers, which are reflected in our costs of revenue. Given our ability to direct the processing volume to specific Card Networks for these customers, we are able to negotiate certain incentive rebates that effectively reduce the overall Card Network fees. With the scale of the transactions we process on behalf of our customers, we believe we can continue to negotiate favorable incentive rebates. However, if these fees increase, our gross margins will decrease. Mastercard In 2020, we entered into a strategic relationship agreement with Mastercard. We have also entered into a number of subsequent arrangements with Mastercard, including certain brand agreements. Under these agreements, as amended, we have agreed to cooperate with Mastercard on a number of initiatives, including international expansion, product, marketing, and business development collaboration. The contracts provide Marqeta with tiered incentives based on the processing volume of our customers transactions routed through Mastercard and its affiliated networks. The current term of the strategic relationship agreement expires in 2028 or at an earlier date if Marqeta achieves a certain processing volume milestone through the Mastercard network. Either party may terminate the agreements under specified circumstances, including upon a material breach that remains uncured for a specified period of time. 10 Table of Contents Visa In 2017, we entered into a strategic alliance framework agreement with Visa. The agreement has been periodically amended. We have also entered into a number of subsequent arrangements with Visa, as governed by the strategic alliance framework agreement, including a card partner agreement, and certain brand agreements. Under these agreements, we have agreed to cooperate with Visa on a number of initiatives, including international expansion, product, marketing, and business development collaboration. The contracts provide Marqeta with tiered incentives based on the processing volume of our customers transactions routed through Visa and its affiliated networks. As of February 2023, the parties have entered into an extension of the card partner agreement under the strategic alliance framework agreement for a term of five years. Either party may terminate the agreements under specified circumstances, including upon a material breach that remains uncured for a specified period of time. Visa may also elect to terminate the agreements prior to the natural expiration of the then-current term due to our failure to meet certain performance requirements. PULSE Network In 2013, we entered into a direct processor agreement with PULSE Network LLC, which has been subsequently amended. The contract provides Marqeta with tiered incentives based on the processing volume of our customers transactions routed through PULSE and its affiliated networks. The current term of the contract expires in 2028 and automatically renews annually thereafter, unless either party provides written notice of its intent not to renew. Either party may terminate the agreement under specified circumstances, including upon a material breach that remains uncured for a specified period of time. Our Competitors We compete in a large and evolving market. Our competitors fall into three primary categories: (1) providers with legacy technology platforms, (2) modern API-based providers, and (3) emerging providers. We compete primarily on the basis of our platforms depth and breadth, offering a more configurable and complete solution for innovators. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: pricing; multiple program types (debit, prepaid, credit); multiple solutions (issuer-processing, banking & money movement); multinational reach; complete solutions at scale; flexibility and configurability; reliability; compliance solutions; program management; brand recognition and reputation; and industry expertise and customer service. We compare favorably with our competitors on the basis of these factors. We have a deep history of card issuing expertise, enabling us to achieve technical and operating leverage that we believe potential competitors are unable to replicate. However, some of our competitors have greater financial and operating resources. Moreover, as we expand the scope of our platform, we may face additional competition. See the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Our Business and IndustryWe participate in markets that are competitive and continuously evolving, and if we do not compete successfully with established companies and new market entrants, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected for additional information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate. 11 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We seek to protect our intellectual property by relying on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, and employee confidential information and invention assignment agreements, as well as other legal and contractual rights. We have a patent program designed to cover various aspects of our business in the United States and internationally. These patents and patent applications are intended to protect our proprietary inventions relevant to our business. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence of new intellectual property and our ability to patent new intellectual property. We also have an ongoing trademark and service mark registration program pursuant to which we register our brand names and product names, taglines, and logos in the United States and internationally to the extent we determine appropriate and cost-effective. We have also registered domain names for websites that we use in our business, such as www.marqeta.com and other similar variations. From time to time, we also incorporate certain intellectual property licensed from third parties, including under certain open source licenses. Even if any such third-party technology did not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we believe that alternative technologies would be available as needed in every case. See the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Intellectual Property for a more comprehensive description of risks related to our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Research and Development Our research and development efforts focus on building enterprise-grade product and service capabilities for our customers and their cardholders. Our design, product, engineering, and customer success teams collaborate to design, build, deploy and monitor our platform. We enable our customers to build solutions on our platform, which connects to our Issuing Banks and Card Networks. Software development is primarily executed by our team of professionals across design, product management, and engineering disciplines. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development capabilities to extend our platform offerings. Government Regulation We are subject, directly, or indirectly through our relationships with our Issuing Banks, customers, or Card Networks, to a number of laws and regulations. The regulatory environment in which we operate is rapidly evolving, and some of the most significant government regulations in the U.S. that impact our business are discussed below. For more information on the risks relating to our regulatory environment, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Regulation. Consumer Protection The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act) created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB) which regulates consumer financial products or services. Due to our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, we may be subject to direct or indirect supervision and examination by the CFPB. CFPB rules, examinations, investigations, and enforcement actions against us or our Issuing Banks, Card Networks, or customers may require us to adjust our activities and may increase our compliance costs. We are subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits unfair and deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce, and Section 1031 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which prohibits unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices in connection with any consumer financial product or service. Privacy, Data Protection, and Information Security Regulations We provide services that are subject to various laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security, including, among others, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the EU General Data Protection Regulation, the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, and the California Consumer Protection Act. We maintain privacy policies and terms of service, which describe our practices concerning the use, transmission, and disclosure of certain information. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, our platform hosts, transmits, processes, and stores payment card data and is therefore required to comply with the PCI DSS. As a result, we are subject to PCI DSS audits and must comply with related security requirements. Association and Card Network Rules Our Issuing Banks must comply with the bylaws, regulations, and requirements that are set forth by the Card Networks, including the PCI DSS and other applicable data security program requirements. In providing services through our platform, we are certified and registered with certain Card Networks as a processor for member institutions. As such, we are subject to applicable Card Network rules that could subject us to fines or penalties for certain acts or omissions. The Card Networks routinely update and modify their requirements and we, in turn, must work to comply with such updates to continue processing transactions on their networks. Further, we are subject to network operating rules promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association relating to payment transactions processed on our platform using the Automated Clearing House Network and to various federal and state laws regarding such operations. Prepaid, Debit, and Credit Card Regulations The Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act directs the Federal Reserve Board to regulate debit card Interchange Fees so that they are reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the card issuer with respect to the transaction. We generally work with Issuing Banks that are exempt from the Interchange Fee caps in the Durbin Amendment to provide services for prepaid and debit card programs. We continue to monitor proposed changes to the Durbin Amendment as well as state level regulation of Interchange Fees. The debit and prepaid card programs that we manage for our customers may be subject to various federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and its implementing Regulation E, which establishes the basic rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of consumers who use electronic fund transfer services and of financial institutions that offer these services. Regulation E includes requirements specific to consumer prepaid accounts, including certain accounts that are capable of being loaded with funds and whose primary function is to conduct transactions with multiple, unaffiliated merchants, at ATMs, or for person-to-person transfers. These regulations include, among other things, disclosure of fees to the consumer prior to the creation of a prepaid account; liability limits and error-resolution requirements; regulation of prepaid accounts with overdraft and credit features; and the submission of prepaid account agreements to the CFPB and the publication of such agreements to the general public. Similarly, we may directly or indirectly be subject to various federal and state consumer credit protection regimes as a result of our credit platform and relationship with originating Issuing Banks, including, among others: the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated thereunder, which prohibit creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, marital status, the fact that all or part of the applicants income derives from any public assistance program, or the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Federal Consumer Credit Protection Act or any applicable state law; the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, and Regulation V promulgated thereunder, which promote the accuracy, fairness, and privacy of information in the files of consumer reporting agencies; the Truth-in-Lending Act, as amended by the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009, and Regulation Z promulgated thereunder, which require certain disclosures to consumers regarding the terms and conditions of loans, credit cards, and credit transactions; the Military Lending Act and similar state laws, which provide disclosure requirements, interest rate limitations, substantive conduct obligations, and prohibitions on certain behavior relating to loans made to covered borrowers, which include both servicemembers and their dependents; and 13 Table of Contents the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and similar state laws, which allows active duty military members to suspend or postpone certain civil obligations so that the military member can devote his or her full attention to military duties. Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions Compliance Although we are not a money services business or otherwise subject to anti-money laundering (AML) registration requirements under U.S. federal or state law, we are subject to certain AML laws and regulations in various jurisdictions. In the United States, the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, known as the Bank Secrecy Act (the BSA) and amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, contains a variety of provisions aimed at fighting terrorism and money laundering. Among other things, the BSA and implementing regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury Department require certain financial institutions to establish AML programs, to not engage in terrorist financing, to report suspicious activity, and to maintain a number of related records. Due to our relationships with Issuing Banks that are directly regulated for AML purposes, we have implemented an AML program designed to prevent our platform from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activity. When providing program management services, we design our AML program to meet the requirements of our Issuing Banks. Our programs are also designed to prevent our platform from being used to facilitate activity in violation of applicable sanctions laws and regulations, including conducting business in specified countries or with designated persons or entities, including those on lists promulgated by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control and equivalent foreign authorities. Our AML compliance program includes policies, procedures, reporting protocols, and internal controls to guard against money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activity, including the designation of a compliance officer in the United States and in other jurisdictions to oversee our AML compliance program, and it is designed to assist in managing risk associated with money laundering and terrorist financing. Anti-Bribery Laws We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery and similar laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws in countries where we conduct activities. The FCPA includes anti-bribery and accounting provisions enforced by the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The statute has a broad reach, covering all U.S. companies and citizens doing business abroad, among others, and defining a foreign official to include not only those holding public office but also local citizens affiliated with foreign government- run or owned organizations. The statute also requires maintenance of appropriate books and records and maintenance of adequate internal controls. Other We are subject to examination by our Issuing Banks regulators and must comply with certain regulations to which these banks are subject, as applicable. For instance, due to our relationships with certain Issuing Banks and certain customers, we may be subject to indirect supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC), state banking regulators (such as the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Reserve Bank in connection with our platform and certain of our products and services. We are also subject to audit by certain Issuing Banks. As a program manager for the Issuing Banks we work with, we are subject to the Issuing Banks risk management standards for third-party relationships in accordance with supervisory guidance and examination by certain federal banking agencies. Further, certain of our customers are financial institutions or non-bank regulated entities and, as a result, we may be indirectly subject to examination and obligated to assist those customers in complying with certain regulations to which they are subject or with responses to audits of such customers. International Regulation 14 Table of Contents The conduct of our business and the use of our products and services outside the United States are subject to various foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in the countries and territories where we operate and where our customers and their cardholders use our products and services. For instance, we are subject to processing fee and transaction fee regulation where our cards are used and may in the future be subject to Interchange Fee regulations in other countries where our cards are used. Privacy and Data Protection Privacy and data protection is a shared responsibility amongst all our employees. To support this effort, Marqeta maintains a dedicated Privacy team that is responsible for the development, implementation, and oversight of a global privacy program and strategy. In addition to privacy-specific policies, standards, and related governance, Marqetas Privacy team has developed a set of internal Privacy Principles to guide our collection and management of personal data in a manner that is intended to be compliant with applicable law. Marqeta employees are also required to undertake privacy training at hire and on a yearly basis. These controls are supplemented by ongoing privacy risk assessments and periodic auditing. We also maintain a number of external and internal-facing privacy notices that describe how we collect and manage the personal data entrusted to us, including personal data provided by our customers, website visitors, employees, and applicants. Our Employees and Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had a total of 854 employees and we supplement our workforce with contractors and consultants. To our knowledge, none of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our human capital resources objectives include, as applicable, identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing, and integrating our existing and prospective employees. Corporate Information We were incorporated in 2010 under the name Marqeta, Inc. as a Delaware corporation. We completed our initial public offering (IPO) in June 2021 and our Class A common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq), under the symbol MQ. Our principal executive offices are located at 180 Grand Avenue, 6th Floor, Oakland, CA 94612, and our telephone number is (510) 671-5437. Available Information Our website is located at www.marqeta.com, and our investor relations website is located at www.investors.marqeta.com. Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings. The address of the site is www.sec.gov. We use our www.investors.marqeta.com and www.marqeta.com websites, as well as our blog posts, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts, our X feed (@Marqeta), our Instagram page (@lifeatmarqeta), our Facebook page, and our LinkedIn page, as a means of disclosing material nonpublic information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes and the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we do not currently believe to be material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factors Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our company. The following is a summary of some of these risks and uncertainties. This summary should be read together with the more detailed description of each risk factor below. We have experienced rapid growth and our past growth rates may not be indicative of future growth rates. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Future net revenue growth depends on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers in a cost-effective manner. We participate in markets that are competitive and continuously evolving, and, if we do not compete successfully, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects may be adversely affected. We currently generate significant net revenue from a small number of customers, including our largest customer, Block, and the loss of any of these significant relationships or decline in net revenue from these customers, including as a result of renewals on less favorable terms, could adversely affect our business and financial results. We have a history of net losses and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Our results fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business, making it difficult to accurately forecast future results. If we fail to meet the expectations of financial analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline. We rely on our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our business may be adversely affected. If our credit platform or other credit programs are inaccurate, do not perform as intended, or lack sufficient capacity to meet demand, our business may be adversely affected. Litigation, disputes, regulatory actions, and government or legal investigations could be costly and time-consuming to defend, and our business may be adversely affected by our involvement or the outcome of such litigation, disputes, actions, or investigations. Our business is subject to regulation and oversight in a variety of areas, directly and indirectly through our relationships with customers, Issuing Banks, and Card Networks, which regulations are subject to change and to uncertain interpretation. Compliance with such laws and regulations could result in additional costs and any failure to comply could materially harm our business and financial condition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report timely and accurate financial results or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired, and our business, operating results, and the price of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected. The trading price of our Class A common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with those stockholders who hold shares of our Class B common stock, including our directors, executive officers, and their affiliates. As a result of the dual class structure of our common stock, the trading price of our Class A common stock may be depressed. We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also affect the trading price of our stock and may reduce working capital. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have experienced rapid growth and our past growth rates may not be indicative of future growth rates. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. While we have experienced rapid net revenue growth in prior periods, our net revenue decreased in the year ended December 31, 2024. The decrease in net revenue was primarily driven by the August 2023 Block Amendment which allowed for reduced pricing and impacted the revenue presentation for the Cash App program as fees owed to Issuing Banks and Card Networks related to the Cash App primary Card Network volume are recorded as a reduction to the revenue earned from the Cash App program within Net revenue effective as of July 1, 2023. In prior periods, these costs were included within Costs of revenue. Our total net revenue was $507.0 million, $676.2 million, and $748.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, a decrease of 25% and a decrease of 10% from the prior years, respectively. We believe our net revenue growth depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: acquire new customers and retain existing customers on favorable terms; achieve widespread acceptance and use of our platform and the products and services we offer, including in markets outside of the United States; increase our offerings, TPV, and the number of customers and transactions on our platform; effectively scale our operations, including successfully integrating acquired businesses and technology; expand our product and service offerings; diversify our customer base; maintain and grow our network of vendors, Issuing Banks, and Card Networks; maintain the security and reliability of our platform; adjust for the impact of the anticipated accounting treatment of our customer agreements and the risk that such accounting treatment may be subject to further changes or developments; adapt to changes in laws and regulations applicable to our business; adapt to changing macroeconomic conditions and evolving conditions in the payments industry; and successfully compete against established companies and new market entrants. We have also historically experienced significant growth in the number of customers using our platform, the number of card programs and solutions we manage for our customers, and TPV on our platform. Our TPV was $291.1 billion, $222.3 billion, and $166.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, an increase of 31% and 34% from the prior years, respectively. Net revenue and TPV for any prior period should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. If our TPV and net revenue growth rates decline or continue to decline, we may not achieve profitability as expected, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the price of our Class A common stock would be adversely affected. Our growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources. We will need to continue to grow and improve our operational, financial, and information technology controls, and our reporting systems and procedures. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to expand our systems and infrastructure. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Future net revenue growth depends on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to attract new customers, retain existing customers on favorable terms, grow and develop those relationships, and expand our platform in a way that serves the needs of these customers to drive increased processing volumes, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects would be adversely affected. There are a number of factors that affect our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers, many of which are outside of our control and are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to changing levels of regulatory scrutiny over banks that sponsor financial technology programs and the risk factors included in this section. 17 Table of Contents While historically our customers generally have not been subject to material minimum volume commitments under their contracts and have not had material contractual obligations to continue using our platform, products, or services, we increasingly require contractual obligations related to exclusivity and preferred provider status related to our products and services. Accordingly, our legacy customers that do not have these contractual obligations may have, or may enter into in the future, similar agreements with our competitors, which could adversely affect our ability to drive the processing volume and revenue growth that we seek to achieve. Some of our customer contracts provide for a termination clause that allows our customers to terminate their contract at any time following a limited notice period. The loss of customers or reductions in their processing volumes, particularly any loss of or reductions by Block, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. To achieve continued growth, we must not only maintain our relationships with our existing customers, but also encourage them to renew their contracts with us and to increase adoption and usage of our products. For example, customers can have multiple card programs on our platform across different use cases and geographies. However, we cannot assure you that customers will continue to use our platform or that we will be able to continue processing transactions on our platform at the same rate as we have in the past. We participate in markets that are competitive and continuously evolving, and, if we do not compete successfully, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive and dynamic industry and we expect competition to increase in the future as established and emerging companies continue to enter the markets we serve or attempt to address the problems that our platform addresses. We face competition along several dimensions, including providers with legacy technology platforms, such as Fidelity National Information Services (FIS), Fiserv, and Global Payments (TSYS); modern API-based providers, such as Galileo, i2c, and Visa DPS; and emerging providers, such as Adyen and Stripe. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: pricing; multiple program types (debit, prepaid, credit); multinational reach; complete solutions at scale; flexibility and configurability; reliability; compliance solutions; program management; brand recognition and reputation; and industry expertise and customer service. Moreover, as we expand the scope of our platform, we may face additional competition. Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors could have, substantial competitive advantages such as greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets and resources, more established relationships with vendors or customers, greater customer support resources, greater resources to make acquisitions and investments, lower labor and development costs, larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios, and other substantially greater resources. Such competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements, or regulatory developments. If we are unable to successfully compete, our growth could slow or decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. We currently generate significant net revenue from a small number of customers, including our largest customer, Block, and the loss of any of these significant relationships or decline in net revenue from these customers, including as a result of renewals on less favorable terms, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. A small number of customers account for a large percentage of our net revenue. As discussed further in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, Block accounted for 47%, 68%, and 71% of our net revenue, respectively. The net revenue from Block decreased over the second half of 2023 and through 2024 as a percentage of our total net revenue, due to the terms of the August 2023 Block Amendment coupled with growth in other customers. We renewed the Block Agreement in August and November 2023, and the current term for both the Cash App and Square Debit Card programs expires in June 2028. The Block Agreement automatically renews thereafter for successive one-year periods. The August 2023 Block Amendment provides that Block is responsible for defining and managing the Cash App program with respect to the primary Card Network going forward. 18 Table of Contents However, we expect that net revenue from a relatively small group of customers, including Block, will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue in the near term. The concentration of a large percentage of our net revenue with a limited number of customers exposes us disproportionately to any of those customers choosing to stop using our platform or using our platform in a reduced capacity, reducing their processing volume with us, or renegotiating, terminating, or failing to renew their agreements with us, or renewing their agreements with us on different terms. For example, the August 2023 Block Amendment renewed our agreement with Block for the Cash App program on different terms, which reduced reported net revenue. Should any of those events occur, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have a history of net losses and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, except for the year ended December 31, 2024. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we had net income of $27.3 million, which was primarily due to the forfeiture of the Executive Chairman Long-Term Incentive Award. We had net losses of $223.0 million and $184.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, our accumulated deficit was approximately $797.9 million and $825.2 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future and we may not achieve profitability. We anticipate our operating expenses to continue to increase in the foreseeable future as we hire additional personnel, adjust compensation packages to hire new or retain existing employees, expand our operations and infrastructure, and continue to enhance and expand our platform, products, and services. These initiatives may be more costly than we expect and may not result in increased net revenue. Further as we expand our offerings to additional markets, our offerings in these markets may be less profitable than the markets in which we currently operate. In addition, as a public company, we have incurred, and we will continue to incur, additional significant legal, insurance, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. From time to time, we may make decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe those decisions will improve the experiences of our customers and their end users, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with investors expectations and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, and this may materially and adversely affect our business. Our results fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business, making it difficult to accurately forecast future results. If our results fail to meet the expectations of financial analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline. Our results of operations for a given period may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to the risk factors included in this section. You should not rely on our past results as an indicator of our future performance. If our results of operations or other operating metrics fall short of the expectations of investors and financial analysts, the trading price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected and the value of your investment could decline. Forecasting our future results of operations is challenging because of such fluctuations and because our net revenue depends in part on our customers end users. Additionally, forecasting our performance can be impacted by a number of factors that are difficult to predict or control including, but not limited to, customer renewals, volume migration, and performance of new customers. As customers scale and become more sophisticated, they may seek to diversify, which could impact our renewal economics and our share of the processing volume. New customer performance is difficult to predict as there is a large spectrum of potential outcomes from very successful, hypergrowth customers to customers that never launch, and these outcomes are largely out of our control. Our transaction mix adds further complexity. Our transaction mix refers to the proportion of signature debit versus PIN debit transactions and consumer versus commercial transactions that make up our TPV. In general, transactions that require a signature of the cardholder generate higher percentage-based Interchange Fees, while transactions that require a PIN generate lower percentage-based Interchange Fees. 19 Table of Contents Accordingly, we have in the past and may in the future be unable to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts, and our results of operations in future reporting periods has and may differ materially from our estimates and forecasts or the expectations of investors or financial analysts, causing our business to suffer and our Class A common stock trading price to decline. We rely on our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our business may be adversely affected. We rely on our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks to provide certain services in connection with our platform, products, and services. We have in the past and may in the future pay certain amounts in association with these relationships, regardless of whether we were compelled to under law or contract. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future have disagreements with Issuing Banks and Card Networks. If we are unable to maintain the quality of these relationships or fail to comply with our related contractual requirements, our business would be adversely affected. A significant portion of our payment transactions are settled through a small number of Issuing Banks. For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, 70%, 76%, and 82%, respectively, of TPV was settled through one Issuing Bank, Sutton Bank. If Sutton Bank terminates our agreement with them or is unable or unwilling to settle our transactions for any reason, we may be required to switch some or all of our processing volume to one or more other Issuing Banks, including to any of the other Issuing Banks with which we currently contract. Switching processing volume to another Issuing Bank would take time and could result in additional costs or loss of revenue or customers, which may adversely affect our business. We also have agreements with Card Networks that, among other things, provide us certain monetary incentives based on the processing volume of our customers transactions routed through the respective Card Network. The timing and extent of amendments or new contracts related to our volume incentive arrangements with Card Networks could result in incentive payments that are recorded in a current period and based on volume processed in a prior period. We currently include Card Network fees in the pricing arrangements with the majority of our customers who engage us to arrange their use of one of more of the Card Networks. If these customers were to manage the relationship with the Card Networks directly, our reported net revenue may decrease. For example, the August 2023 Block Amendment provides that Block will be responsible for defining and managing the Cash App program with respect to the primary Card Network going forward which has the effect of reducing reported net revenue. We intend to continue expanding and deepening our relationships with Issuing Banks and Card Networks. Diversifying these contractual relationships and operations increases the complexity of our operations and has lead and may continue to lead to increased costs. The Issuing Banks and Card Networks we work with may fail to process transactions, breach their agreements with us, or refuse to renew or renegotiate our agreements with them on terms that are favorable, commercially reasonable, or at all. They might also take actions that could degrade the functionality of our platform, impose additional costs or requirements on us, or give preferential treatment to competitive services, including their own. If we are unsuccessful in establishing, renegotiating, or maintaining relationships with Issuing Banks or Card Networks, our business may be adversely affected. Performance issues, systems failures, and interruptions in the availability of our platform may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our continued growth depends on the efficient operation of our platform. Any significant disruption, outage, data loss, or errors in service on our platform, including events beyond our control, such as infrastructure changes or failures, or human or software errors could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have experienced such performance incidents in the past and expect that we will continue to periodically experience such performance issues in the future. 20 Table of Contents Our platform is designed to process a high number of transactions and deliver reports and other information related to those transactions at high processing speeds. We have in the past and may in the future experience errors, inaccuracies, or omissions in our processing, reconciling, or reporting of transactions. The risk of performance issues has increased in recent periods due to the significant increase in our TPV and increases further with new product launches and geographical expansion. We release regular updates to our platform, which have in the past contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors, failures, and bugs. Any platform performance issues could lead to claims by customers, vendors, Card Networks, Issuing Banks, or other third parties, or other claims, regulatory fines, or proceedings. It could also damage ours and our customers businesses and, in turn, hurt our brand and reputation. The performance, availability, and connectivity of the data centers, cloud-based solutions, and other third parties that provide computing and storage infrastructure for our platform are outside of our control. If any of these infrastructure providers fail to provide sufficient capacity to support our platform or otherwise experience service outages, we may experience interruptions in our ability to operate our platform and our business could be adversely affected. We have experienced, and expect to continue to periodically experience, outages of the services provided by these providers. If we are not able to maintain the level of service uptime and performance needed by our customers, they could face longer processing times or downtime as a result. If customers are unable to access our platform within a reasonable amount of time, or at all, we may not be able to meet the service level commitments typically provided for in our customer contracts and we would be contractually obligated to provide service level credits. We have experienced incidents, including incidents outside our control, and expect we may experience incidents in the future requiring us to pay service level credits and other customer service concessions. In addition, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur as a result of damage or interruption. Further, we are continuing to refine our enterprise resilience functions such as business continuity, crisis management, and disaster recovery. Our disaster recovery plan has not been tested under actual disaster conditions, and we may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage. Therefore, any performance issue, systems failure, outage, or interruption in the availability of our platform would adversely affect our business, and could subject us to financial penalties and liabilities. Any real or perceived improper or unauthorized use of, disclosure of, or access to our or our customers and other third parties confidential, proprietary, or sensitive data, including by cyberattacks, security breaches or incidents, or employee or other misconduct, could expose us to liability and damage our reputation. Our operations depend on receiving, storing, transmitting, and otherwise processing sensitive information pertaining to our business, employees, customers, and customers end users. The confidentiality, integrity, and availability of such information residing on or processed using our systems is important to our business. While we have an internal security program, the success of such program will be impacted by new and existing vulnerabilities, human error, resource constraints, the efficiency of our processes and procedures, and management of gaps in controls. The integrity of our internal security program is also subject to changing standards or interpretations of standards as new frameworks are introduced and existing frameworks evolve. We use vendors to perform certain services for us, in some cases involving management or other processing of sensitive data, and these vendors face similar security threats to the confidentiality, security, and integrity of their systems and the data they process for us. Unauthorized parties have attempted and will continue to attempt to gain access to our platform, systems, or facilities, and those of our customers, vendors, and other third parties with which we do business using a variety of methods such as cloud account takeover attacks, software lifecycle compromise, denial-of-service attacks, phishing attacks and other forms of social engineering, and ransomware and other malicious code. We have incorporated and may continue to incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) solutions and features (including AI solutions utilizing generative AI) into our platform and other aspects of our business and operations. The use of AI solutions and features in our business may increase or create additional cybersecurity risks, including risks of security breaches, data leaks, and other incidents. 21 Table of Contents Also, due to political uncertainty and military actions associated with geopolitical tensions, we and the third parties we work with are vulnerable to heightened risks of security breaches and incidents. Any attempted, perceived or actual breach or incident could disrupt our systems and other aspects of our operations, result in unauthorized or unlawful access to or loss, modification, unavailability, misuse, or other unauthorized processing of ours and our employees data and the data of third parties with which we work, have a significant impact on our reputation as a trusted brand, and expose us to legal risk and potential liability, and costs associated with remediation. Further, if there is a breach impacting payment card information that we store, process, or transmit or that is stored, processed, or transmitted by our customers or other third parties that we do business with, we could be liable to the Issuing Banks or our customers for certain of their costs and expenses, in addition to the potential for fines, penalties, and other liabilities. While we believe that none of the incidents that we have identified to date have materially impacted us, we cannot be certain that the security measures we have in place to detect and address security breaches, incidents, and other disruptions and protect sensitive data will be sufficient to counter the risks and threats facing us, our customers, and our vendors. We and our vendors may be unable to anticipate, react to, remediate, or otherwise address any actual or attempted security breach or other security incident in a timely manner, or implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach or incident involving our systems or data, or those of our customers or vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Even the perception of inadequate security may damage our reputation and negatively impact our ability to gain new customers and retain existing customers. We expect to invest significant resources to maintain and enhance our information security program and controls in compliance with industry standards and applicable laws and regulations; however, if we experience resourcing constraints, our investments and the result of such investments may be delayed. We have adopted a flexible-first work environment, and expect to continue to be subject to challenges and risks associated with having a remote workforce. For example, our employees are accessing our servers remotely through home or other networks to perform their job responsibilities. Such security systems may be less secure than those used in our offices, which may subject us to increased security risks, and expose us to risks of data or financial loss and associated disruptions to our business operations. In addition, any inability to track and manage hardware and software assets across our remote workforce could lead to loss of intellectual property, a security breach or incident, and unauthorized access to our systems and applications, potentially adversely affecting our business and financial condition. While we maintain cybersecurity insurance, our insurance may be insufficient to cover all liabilities incurred by a cybersecurity breach or incident. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that an insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. If a claim exceeds available insurance coverage or if the conditions of our insurance policies change, our business or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business depends on a strong and trusted brand, and any failure to maintain, protect, enhance, and market our brand would hurt our business. Negative publicity about us or our industry could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. We have developed a strong and trusted brand that has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We believe that maintaining and promoting our brand in a cost-effective manner is important to the continued growth of our business. Any failure to maintain high quality customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high quality customer support, could erode customer trust and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we do not devote sufficient resources or are otherwise unsuccessful in assisting our customers effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and could prevent prospective customers from adopting our platform. 22 Table of Contents Harm to our brand can arise from many other sources as well, including inadequate protection or misuse of sensitive information, compliance failures, litigation, and other claims, and misconduct by our employees, contractors, or vendors. We may also be the target of incomplete, inaccurate, and misleading or false statements about our company and our business that could damage our brand and deter customers from adopting our services. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Our new products and technologies have a limited performance history, and any failure to execute on our related strategy could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. In fiscal 2024, we announced new technologies, including portfolio migration, UX Toolkit, and the development of Marqeta Flex. Net revenue growth attributed to these new technologies is dependent on increasing the number of existing customers or new customers who use our platform and these capabilities. Failure to scale these technologies, a competitive market, or failure to bring Marqeta Flex to market could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may introduce other new products, technologies, or business opportunities in the future. Our failure to accurately predict the demand or growth of new products, technologies, or businesses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. New products, technologies, and businesses are inherently risky, due to, among other things, risks associated with: the product, technology, or business not working, or not working as expected; customer acceptance; technological outages or failures; increased regulatory scrutiny; and the failure to meet customer expectations. As a result of these risks related to new products and technologies, we could experience increased claims, reputational damage, or other adverse effects, which could be material. In addition, our investment in new products, technologies, and businesses and making changes or updates to our platform may either be insufficient or result in expenses that exceed the revenue actually generated from these new products, technologies, or businesses. If our credit platform or other credit programs are inaccurate, do not perform as intended, or lack sufficient capacity to meet demand, our business may be adversely affected. We acquired Power Finance in the first quarter of 2023 and released our credit card issuing capabilities publicly in October 2023. Net revenue growth attributed to credit card issuing is dependent on increasing the number of existing customers or new customers who use our credit card issuing capabilities. We have limited experience administering our credit card issuing platform, and failure to scale due to our limited experience or a competitive market could adversely affect our business and financial results. The success of our credit issuing capabilities and other credit programs also depends on our ability to effectively manage related risks for us and our Issuing Banks. While the Issuing Banks or other third parties we work with bear the credit risk, in some cases they rely on our credit decisioning engine and managed services to underwrite and/or to otherwise support the management of credit card programs in accordance with their credit policies. Our current and future efforts and the efforts of our Issuing Banks and other partners to expand the capacity of our Issuing Banks and mitigate risk to our credit issuing capabilities and other credit programs may not be successful. Numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control, can adversely affect the evaluation of credit risk. The information we use in processing credit transactions may be inaccurate or incomplete as a result of error or fraud, both of which may be difficult to detect and avoid. If a fraudulent applicant is approved based on our credit risk model, we may be liable for the losses incurred by the Issuing Bank, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents There may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, including market risks, interest rate risks, economic risks, and other external events, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified, or mitigated that would impact our Issuing Banks or our ability to support credit products. If our credit risk tools do not effectively and accurately model the credit risk of potential cards issued by our Issuing Banks, greater than expected losses may result on such card programs and, as a result, our customers may stop marketing their card programs, potential customers may be less likely to initiate card programs, and Issuing Banks may stop using our platform for credit card issuing. Further, if our platform does not operate as intended or is inaccurate, it may be alleged that we and/or our Issuing Banks have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we and/or our Issuing Banks may be subject to litigation or regulatory investigations or other proceedings, we and/or our Issuing Banks may have to pay fines and penalties or become subject to civil or criminal liability or have additional obligations or restrictions imposed upon our respective businesses, and our customer relationships and reputation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The Issuing Banks face the risk that our customers cardholders will default on their payment obligations, creating the risk of potential charge-offs. While we are not contractually obligated to pay for any credit-related delinquencies or charge-offs, we have in the past and may in the future make payments to our Issuing Banks in association with our relationship with them, regardless of whether we were compelled to under law or contract. Incremental charge-offs may also affect the Issuing Banks future credit decisioning which could impact the volume of transactions processed and the number of cards issued. This may adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to anticipate, adapt to, or keep pace with new technologies and develop new services and capabilities for our platform, our business and future growth could be harmed. We compete in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services, and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. Our ability to attract new customers and increase net revenue will depend in significant part on our ability to adapt to industry standards, anticipate trends, and continue to enhance our platform and introduce new products and capabilities on a timely and secure basis to keep pace with technological developments and customer expectations. We must also keep pace with changing legal and regulatory regimes that affect our platform, products, services, and business. It is also important for us to implement tools to support the operational efficiency of our platform. For example, in the past year AI solutions have emerged as an opportunity for us, our customers, our vendors, and other third parties to innovate more quickly and efficiently and better serve our customers. Rapid adoption and novel uses of AI may, however, introduce unique and unpredictable security risks to our systems and platform, products, and services. Our business could be adversely affected if we are not successful in developing modifications, enhancements, and improvements, in bringing them to market quickly or cost-effectively, or at modifying our platform to remain compliant with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our business could also be harmed if we experience unintended consequences with the enhancements we provide or use. Issues relating to our use of AI technologies, including generative and agentic AI, combined with an uncertain legal and regulatory environment, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We have incorporated and may continue to incorporate AI solutions and features into our platform or other offerings, and otherwise within our business, and these solutions and features may become more important to our operations or to our future growth over time. There can be no assurance that we will realize the desired or anticipated benefits from AI and we may fail to properly develop, implement or market our AI solutions and features or to do so in a cost-effective manner. Additionally, we may fail to offer the AI solutions and features that our customers and potential customers expect or adopt. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products, offerings, and solutions more quickly or more successfully than we do, which could impair our ability to compete effectively, and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, our AI solutions and features may expose us to additional claims, demands, and proceedings by private parties and regulatory authorities and subject us to legal liability as well as brand and reputational harm. For example, if AI models used in our products or other offerings are incorrectly designed, the data we use to train them is incomplete or inadequate, the outputs (including any analysis or recommendations) are or are deemed to be inaccurate or discriminatory, or we do not have sufficient rights to use the data on which our models rely, the performance of our AI solutions and features, as well as our reputation, could suffer or we could incur liability through the violation of contractual or regulatory obligations. The legal, regulatory, and policy environments around AI are evolving rapidly. For example, the EU AI Act, which achieved approval by the European Council on February 2, 2024, and the European Parliament on March 13, 2024, will impose obligations on providers and users of AI technologies. Additionally, several U.S. states have proposed, and in certain cases have enacted, legislation imposing obligations in connection with the development or use of, or otherwise regulating, AI technologies. U.S. and state-specific regulatory bodies have also issued advisories on the use of AI technologies and will likely step up their oversight and enforcement of these technologies. Other countries also are contemplating laws regulating AI and machine learning technologies. We may become subject to new legal and other obligations in connection with our use of AI, which could require us to make significant changes to our policies and practices, necessitating expenditure of significant time, expense, and other resources. We may continue to expand operations internationally where we have limited operating experience and may be subject to increased business, economic, and regulatory risks that could adversely impact our operations and financial results. We have offices in the United States, Poland, and the United Kingdom (U.K.), and legal entities in various other global jurisdictions, and we may pursue further international expansion of our business in new international markets where we have limited or no experience in marketing, selling, employing personnel, and deploying our platform, products, and services. Managing international operations requires us to comply with new regulatory frameworks, additional regulatory hurdles, and implement additional resources and controls. Our business model may not be successful or have the same traction outside the United States. International expansion subjects our business to additional risks, including: failure to anticipate competitive conditions and competition with market players that have greater experience in the local markets than we do or that have pre-existing relationships with potential customers and investors in those markets; conforming our platform with applicable business customs and languages; increased costs and difficulty in protecting intellectual property and sensitive data, including compliance with data residency requirements or commitments; increased costs from local Card Networks, BIN sponsors, vendors, and other local providers; potential changes to our established business and pricing models; the ability to support and integrate with local BIN sponsors and other service providers; difficulties in managing foreign operations; increased travel, infrastructure, and legal and compliance costs; difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; difficulties in gaining acceptance from industry self-regulatory bodies; risks related to government regulations in and related to foreign jurisdictions, including compliance with multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing laws, regulations, and industry standards, and related penalties or fines for non-compliance; Interchange Fee regulation in foreign jurisdictions; exchange rate risk and global market volatility; potential restrictions on repatriation of earnings; management of tax consequences; and 25 Table of Contents political, social, and/or economic instability or military conflict. As a result of these risks, we may not be successful in managing our existing international operations or expanding our international operations, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may incur losses relating to the settlement of payment transactions on our platform. We contract with Issuing Banks to settle funds on behalf of our customers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. We are and will continue to be subject to the risk of losses relating to the day-to-day settlement of payment transactions, including with respect to pre-funding, ACH processing errors or delays, and chargeback requests as well as human or processing error. If transactions or settlement reconciliations are not performed timely or accurately due to human or other processing error, we could incur losses. While customers deposit a certain amount of pre-funding into bank accounts at our Issuing Banks, depending on the model of the card program and the timing of funding and transactions, some transactions may be authorized in an amount that exceeds the pre-funding in the customers account. Customers are ultimately responsible for fulfilling their obligations to fund transactions. However, when a customer does not have sufficient funds to settle a transaction, we may be liable to the Issuing Bank to settle the transaction, including fraudulent or disputed transactions, and may incur losses as a result of claims from the Issuing Bank. We would seek to recover such losses from the customer, but we may not fully recover them if the customer is unwilling or unable to pay. Additionally, if the Issuing Banks we work with do not receive and submit ACH return files from us on time to the Federal Reserve Bank, the originating depository financial institution that sent the original ACH payment is not required to return the funds to the customer account at the Issuing Bank. We have in the past and may in the future be responsible for delays or errors in processing ACH return files, in which case we bear responsibility for the funds that should have been returned to the customer account and may suffer financial losses. In addition, when a chargeback request is approved, the purchase price of the transaction is refunded to the customers end users account through our platform. If we do not properly process the chargeback, the customer may request that we fund the refunded amount to their end user. We have in the past, and may in the future, incur costs relating to transactions exceeding customer pre-funding and the improper processing of ACH files and chargeback requests. The costs we incur related to our settlement obligations may adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may incur losses relating to illegal and fraudulent activity on our platform. Our resources, technologies, and fraud prevention tools may be insufficient to accurately detect and prevent fraud on our platform. We have programs to vet and monitor our potential customers and the transactions we process for them, but such programs may not be effective in detecting and preventing fraud or illegitimate transactions. Illegitimate transactions or illegal activities such as money laundering or terrorist funding can expose us to governmental and regulatory enforcement actions and potentially prevent us from satisfying our contractual obligations to our Issuing Banks and other counterparties, which may cause us to be in breach of our obligations. The techniques used to perpetrate fraud are continually evolving, and we expend considerable resources to continue to monitor and combat them. Criminals may commit fraud using techniques such as stolen identities and bank accounts, compromised business email accounts, employee or insider fraud, account takeover, false applications, check fraud, skimming, counterfeit payment cards, and stolen cards or card account numbers. Fraud or theft involving cards issued through our platform or as a result of actions by our employees or contractors could result in financial losses, civil or criminal liability, reputational damage, harm to our business, or increasing costs related to remediation or more rigorous compliance obligations. Fraudulent activity could also result in the imposition of regulatory sanctions, including significant monetary fines, or other operating losses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Failure to attract and retain key personnel, including senior management and other highly skilled employees, could adversely affect our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition for highly skilled employees is intense as these employees are in high demand and may be in short supply. We have from time to time experienced, are currently experiencing, and we expect to continue to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, at a speed that is consistent with our business needs, and at an appropriate cost. Our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of qualified personnel. A number of our employees are foreign nationals who rely on work authorization provided to them by the U.S. federal government. In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in work authorization immigration status. We may experience additional complications hiring and retaining qualified personnel who rely on such immigration status to lawfully work with our Company, as compliance with new or changing U.S. immigration and labor laws could restrain our ability to retain and attract qualified personnel. In addition, we anticipate potential impacts to foreign national employees ability to travel for either business or personal reasons due to longer vetting times at the U.S. border for all individuals entering the United States. We also anticipate potential impacts to foreign national employees ability to obtain new or renewed visas abroad, which are required in most circumstances to re-enter the United States. These processes could cause delays in employees ability to return to work in the event of travel. Job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the value of our equity awards continues to decline or does not improve, it may impair our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we are not able to add and retain employees effectively, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely affected, and our business and growth prospects will be adversely affected. The majority of our employees operate in a remote capacity, and we expect to continue to be subject to challenges and risks associated with having a remote workforce. For example, operating our business with both remote and in-person workers across different geographies and time zones could have a negative impact on our corporate culture, decrease the ability of our workforce to collaborate and communicate effectively, decrease innovation and productivity, or negatively affect workforce morale. Changes in our executive management team may also disrupt our business. Any employment agreements we have with our executive officers or other key personnel do not require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience high attrition and turnover rates across the Company, including executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of these employees may lead to a decrease in institutional knowledge which may adversely affect our business. Additionally, we do not maintain any key person insurance policies. We may require additional capital to support our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business and may require additional funds. Despite having $1.1 billion in cash and highly liquid short-term investments on our balance sheet, we may seek additional funds to develop new products and enhance our platform and existing products, expand our operations, improve our infrastructure, or acquire complementary businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets. In addition, we are using a portion of our cash to satisfy tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the vesting of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Performance-based Restricted Stock Units (PSUs) as well as to effect share repurchases. See the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Relating to Ownership of Our Class A Common StockWe cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also affect the trading price of our stock and may reduce working capital for additional information regarding our share repurchase programs. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. 27 Table of Contents Any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Any debt financing that we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, potentially making it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. Disruptions in the credit markets or other factors, such as inflation or rising interest rates, could adversely affect the availability, diversity, cost, and terms of funding arrangements. In addition, actual events involving limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance, or other adverse developments that affect financial institutions, transactional counterparties, or other companies in the financial services industry or the financial services industry generally, or concerns or rumors about any events of these kinds or other similar risks, have in the past and may in the future lead to market-wide liquidity problems. The ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, but these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. The FDIC only insures up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank, and we currently have cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of FDIC insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails, we may lose our deposits over $250,000. Further, certain banks may be under regulatory orders and may not be able to support us due to regulatory challenges. The loss of our deposits at such banks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and liquidity. We have in the past and may in the future make investments in investment-grade securities. If such investments are not diversified or are concentrated at an at-risk institution, we may experience losses and may not be able to liquidate such investments. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth, scale our infrastructure, develop product enhancements, and respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Strategic transactions, including acquisitions, investments, partnerships, and collaborations, could fail to achieve strategic objectives, divert the attention of management, disrupt our ongoing operations, dilute stockholder value, and may adversely affect our business and financial results. We may be unable to successfully integrate any acquired businesses and technology. We have in the past and may in the future acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement our platform, products, and services, expand our geographic reach or customer base, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For example, we acquired Power Finance Inc. in February 2023 and we intend to complete the acquisition of the TransactPay business of Neptune International Ltd in 2025. The identification, pursuit, evaluation, and negotiation of potential strategic transactions may divert the attention of management and entail various expenses, whether or not such transactions are ultimately consummated. Any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures or require us to make adjustments to our or the acquired company's business models. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, and consummating favorable transaction opportunities or successfully integrating the acquired personnel, operations, and technologies, or effectively scaling and managing the combined business following the acquisition. Specifically, we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel from an acquired business and we may be unable to retain key personnel after a transaction, including personnel who are critical to the success of the ongoing business. We may not accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction. Moreover, the anticipated benefits, growth, or synergies of any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. If we invest in companies that do not succeed, our investments may lose all or some of their value, which could result in us recording impairment charges reflected in our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Litigation, disputes, regulatory actions, and government or legal investigations could be costly and time-consuming to defend, and our business may be adversely affected by our involvement or the outcome of such litigation, disputes, actions, or investigations. In the ordinary course of business, we have been, are currently, and in the future may be, involved in litigation or disputes. We have also received and may in the future receive, inquiries, warrants, subpoenas, and other requests for information in connection with government investigations. Such claims, disputes, lawsuits, proceedings, and investigations could involve matters relating to employment, wage and hour, commercial, antitrust, securities, the duties of officers or directors, regulatory compliance, and other matters. The number and significance of litigation, regulatory, and government or legal investigation matters and disputes has increased and may continue to increase as our business expands. We also had in the past, have currently, and may have in the future indemnification obligations as a result of our contracts with customers and other counterparties that may require us to reimburse or pay for damages, fees, or other expenses associated with claims, lawsuits, proceedings, and investigations such customers and other counterparties face. Further, our liability insurance may not cover all potential claims made against us or third parties or be sufficient to cover us for all liability that may be imposed. A claim brought against us or third parties that is uninsured or under-insured could result in unanticipated costs. The costs associated with litigation, disputes, regulatory actions, and government or legal investigations can also be unpredictable depending on the complexity of the matter, the resources needed to manage it, and length of time devoted to it. These matters may also divert managements attention and operational resources, could harm our reputation regardless of the outcome, and might seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. We cannot assure you that any actual or potential litigation, claims, disputes, investigations, or proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on third parties to provide certain products and services, and their failure to perform those services or comply with legal or regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business and financial results. We depend on services from various third-party vendors to provide our products and services. Any disruptions in these services, including as a result of actions outside of our control, could significantly impact the continued performance of our platform. We conduct vendor due diligence and manage such vendors using a risk-based approach intended to determine if relevant vendors have the ability, consistent with all applicable laws, to implement and maintain reasonable security measures in connection with their work with us, and to promptly report to us any suspected breach of their security measures that may affect our business. If we are unable to timely and accurately identify at-risk vendors or if a service provider fails to properly safeguard our data or intellectual property, fails to meet contractual requirements (including compliance with applicable laws and regulations), suffers a cyberattack, security breach or incident, or other system outage or interruption, or terminates its contract with us, we could be subject to claims from customers or other third parties or regulatory enforcement actions, and such incidents may also put information we process at risk which could in turn adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. In some cases, vendors are the sole source, or one of a limited number of sources, of the services they provide to us. In the future, these services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of any of these services could adversely affect our business and we may incur additional costs to resolve the issue. 29 Table of Contents Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability and risk of loss. Our agreements with Issuing Banks, Card Networks, customers, vendors, lessors, and other third parties include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses or expenses suffered or incurred in certain circumstances, including, for example, in relation to claims arising out of the breach of such agreements, services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. Some of these agreements provide for uncapped liability for indemnification claims and some indemnity provisions survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. In some cases, we have in the past and could continue to be exposed to liability or indemnification claims from our customers, Card Networks, or Issuing Banks in connection with the services we provide. Large payments to customers, Card Networks, or Issuing Banks could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Any dispute with a customer, Card Network, or Issuing Bank with respect to these obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that counterparty and other existing or prospective customers, Card Networks, or Issuing Banks, and harm our business and results of operations. Further, although we carry insurance, our liability insurance may not cover all potential claims made against us or be sufficient to cover us for all liability that may be imposed, and any such coverage may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If our estimates or judgments relating to our accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates in part on historical experience, market observable inputs, if available, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of net revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements include, but are not limited to, the fair value and useful lives of assets acquired and liabilities assumed through business combinations, the estimation of contingent liabilities, the fair value of equity awards and warrants, share-based compensation, the estimation of variable consideration in contracts with customers, the reserve for contract contingencies and processing errors, the estimation of network incentives, and valuation of income taxes. In addition, we have been and may continue to be involved in various lawsuits, claims, and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. We record a liability for these when we believe it is probable that we have incurred a loss, and that we can reasonably estimate the loss. We regularly evaluate current information to determine whether we should adjust a recorded liability or record a new one. If a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be reasonably estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Judgment is required to determine both the probability and the estimated amount. If we make incorrect assumptions or estimates, our reported financial results may be over- or understated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may also be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. 30 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Regulation Our business is subject to regulation and oversight in a variety of areas, directly and indirectly through our relationships with customers, Issuing Banks, and Card Networks, which regulations are subject to change and to uncertain interpretation. Compliance with such laws and regulations could result in additional costs and any failure to comply could materially harm our business and financial condition. We, our customers, our vendors, and other third parties we do business with are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and industry standards, including supervision and examination with respect to the foregoing by multiple authorities and governing bodies and in multiple countries, which govern numerous areas important to our business. While we currently operate our business in an effort to ensure our business itself is not subject to the same level of regulation or licensing as the Issuing Banks and Card Networks that we contract with, Issuing Banks and Card Networks operate in a highly regulated environment, and there is a risk that those regulations could become directly applicable to or directly impact us. We have structured our business in a manner reasonably designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, applicable laws relating to money laundering, sanctions, consumer protection, and money transmission services; however, it is possible that a relevant regulator may disagree, which could expose us to penalties and/or censure. If a relevant regulator disagreed with our analysis of, and compliance with, applicable laws, we may be required to seek licenses, authorizations, or approvals from those regulators, which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements, and may subject us to additional regulation and oversight, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. As a program manager, we are responsible for aligning compliance with Issuing Bank requirements and Card Network rules, and we help create card programs for our customers designed to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. In some cases, we have in the past and could continue to be exposed to liability or indemnification claims from our customers or other third parties in connection with the services we provide. We are directly, and indirectly through our contractual relationships with customers, Issuing Banks, and Card Networks, subject to regulation in areas which may include, but are not limited to, privacy, data protection and information security, global sanctions regimes and export controls, and anti-bribery, and those relating to payments services (such as payment processing and settlement services), AI, consumer protection, AML, and escheatment, as well as compliance with industry standards, such as PCI DSS. As our business and platform continue to develop and expand, we continue to become subject to additional laws, rules, regulations, and industry standards, including possible additional examination and supervision, in the United States and internationally. For example, in Canada, the Retail Payment Activities Act (the RPAA) will subject payment service providers (PSPs), including a Marqeta subsidiary, to supervision by the Bank of Canada. One of our subsidiaries submitted an application for registration under the RPAA in November 2024, and we and other PSPs must establish, implement, and maintain a risk management and incident response framework that complies with the RPAA by September 8, 2025. New or expanded regulation or changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition due to increased compliance costs and new restrictions affecting the offering of our platform, products and services. We may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to, or accurately predict the scope or applicability of, regulatory, legislative, or other developments, which may in turn impair our ability to offer our existing or planned features, products, and services and/or increase our cost of doing business. For example, regulatory scrutiny over banks that sponsor financial technology programs increased in fiscal 2024, and the heightened regulatory environment contributed to the Issuing Banks we work with focusing more on maintaining existing programs than launching new programs with us. As a result, we launched fewer programs than projected in fiscal 2024, adversely affecting our results of operations and business. In addition, we may become subject to audits, inquiries, whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, or criminal or civil complaints or sanctions, all of which may have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents As a result of our business relationships, we may also be subject to direct or indirect supervision and examination by various authorities. The CFPB, for example, has indicated it has dormant authority to examine certain companies whose services may pose risk to consumers, which may include our company. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the FDIC, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the Federal Banking Agencies) have also issued a growing number of enforcement actions in connection with partnerships between banks and financial technology companies in recent years. The Federal Banking Agencies have also published interagency guidance for banks to develop and implement risk management practices for these arrangements, which clarifies supervisory expectations for banks to oversee the third parties with whom they partner. With respect to payment activities, including card issuing, the Federal Banking Agencies have indicated that they may further clarify their supervisory expectations. Accordingly, as a program manager for Issuing Banks, we are subject to the Issuing Banks risk management standards for third-party relationships in accordance with supervisory guidance and examination by the Federal Banking Agencies. Should we or the Issuing Banks with whom we work be unable to satisfy these standards, we may have to discontinue certain programs or relationships or be unable to onboard new customers or products to the Issuing Banks, and, it is also possible that regulators could hold us or our customers responsible for actual or perceived deficiencies in connection with our arrangements with Issuing Banks, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. New or changing laws or regulations could require us to incur significant expenses and devote significant management attention to ensure compliance and could also prompt our Issuing Banks to alter their dealings with us in ways that may have adverse consequences for our business. In addition, increased supervisory scrutiny has in the past contributed to, and may in the future contribute to, the Issuing Banks with whom we currently have relationships reassessing the details of their arrangement with us and may deter new Issuing Banks from establishing a relationship with us or have other adverse impacts upon our business. Further, while we do not handle or interact with cryptocurrency and we only process transactions on our platform in fiat currencies, certain cryptocurrency businesses use our platform to provide card products to their customers and end users. The regulation of cryptocurrency is rapidly evolving and varies significantly among jurisdictions and is subject to substantial uncertainty. Various legislative and executive bodies in the United States and other countries may adopt laws, regulations, or guidance, or take other actions, which may impact our Issuing Banks and restrain the growth of cryptocurrency businesses and in turn impact the net revenue associated with our cryptocurrency business customers. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that our compliance policies and procedures will be effective. If we fail to comply or are alleged or perceived to have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation or regulatory investigations or other proceedings, we may have to pay fines and penalties or become subject to civil or criminal liability or have additional obligations or restrictions imposed upon our business, and our customer relationships and reputation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In some cases, regardless of fault, it may be less time-consuming or costly to settle these matters, which may require us to implement certain changes to our business practices, provide remediation to certain individuals, or make a settlement payment to a given party or regulatory body. Laws, regulations, and industry standards related to privacy and data governance, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations, could adversely affect our business and financial results. As we operate and expand our business, we process and manage a significant amount of personal data that increasingly subjects us to global laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, and other processing of that information and security measures with regard to that information. Governmental bodies and industry organizations in the United States and abroad have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations governing the use of, and requiring safeguarding of, personal data. We also are and may become subject to contractual obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security. 32 Table of Contents For example, we are subject to the California Consumer Privacy Act (as amended, including by the California Privacy Rights Act, the CCPA), which imposes significant restrictions on the collection, processing, and disclosure of personal data, including imposing increased penalties related to data privacy incidents. Other U.S. states have also passed or are considering privacy legislation, including omnibus privacy legislation similar to the CCPA, and industry organizations regularly adopt and advocate for new standards in these areas. We are also subject to U.S. federal legislation such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and regulatory oversight in this area, including by the CFPB which has shown an increased interest in the governance of personal data. As we continue to operate and expand internationally, we are also subject to, and will continue to be subject to, international privacy laws including but not limited to the EUs General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the U.K. GDPR, and local privacy and data protection legislation in EU member states, as well as laws within Canada, including the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act and local provincial legislation. In addition, other global laws, rules, and regulations related to data governance may impact our current and future operations. This includes, for example, regulations relating to cybersecurity, such as Europes Digital Operational Resilience Act, U.S. federal and state-specific data broker legislation, and laws, regulations, and advisory opinions pertaining to the development and use of AI. Current or future laws, regulations, contractual obligations, and industry standards or other frameworks relating to privacy and data governance may impose, or be asserted to impose, requirements that are inconsistent with our practices or the operation of our products and services. As a result, these requirements may require us to modify our policies and practices and may otherwise adversely affect our business. While we continue to monitor and assess the evolving regulatory landscape in the context of our business and our products and services, this area is rapidly evolving and may be subject to uncertainty as well as varying interpretations of relevant requirements. Although we have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expense in complying with certain new and evolving privacy and data governance laws and frameworks, we may not be successful in our efforts to achieve and maintain compliance. Additionally, our interpretation and applications of relevant requirements may be inconsistent with the interpretation and application of these requirements by relevant authorities and regulatory bodies. If we fail or are alleged to have failed to comply with any of these laws, regulations, frameworks, or other actual or asserted obligations, we may be subject to regulatory investigations, enforcement actions, and other proceedings, civil litigation, claims, and demands, and fines and other penalties, all of which may result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our business. We may also be required to make additional or significant changes to our policies and business operations, such as modifying products and services or our data processing practices or policies, or otherwise restricting our operations, which we may be unable to complete in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our potential liability in connection with our actual or alleged non-compliance with laws, regulations, contractual obligations, and frameworks may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may from time to time make representations regarding our practices and controls related to privacy, our processing of personal data, and related matters, such as our security measures including but not limited to within our public-facing privacy notices. We may at times fail, or be alleged to have failed, to comply with these representations. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with these representations, or any such representations being, or alleged to be, deceptive or misrepresentative, may result in regulatory investigations, enforcement actions, and other proceedings, civil litigation, claims, and demands, and fines and other penalties and liabilities, all of which may result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our business. 33 Table of Contents A portion of our net revenue is derived from Interchange Fees and changes in Interchange Fees or Interchange Fee regulation could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A portion of our net revenue is derived from Interchange Fees and the amount of Interchange Fees we earn is highly dependent on the interchange rates that the Card Networks set and adjust. Interchange Fees and assessments are subject to change from time to time by the Card Networks and due to government regulation. Interchange Fees have historically been, and continue be, the subject of intense legal and regulatory scrutiny and competitive pressures in the electronic payments industry in the United States and internationally. For example, in the United States, the Durbin Amendment may restrict or otherwise impact the way we do business or limit our ability to charge certain fees to customers. Issuing Banks that are exempt from the Interchange Fee restrictions in the Durbin Amendment are able to access higher interchange rates on debit and prepaid card transactions. As a result, to maximize our Interchange Fees in the United States, we generally only contract with Issuing Banks that are subject to this exemption from the Durbin Amendment when we provide services for debit and prepaid card programs. While these Issuing Banks are currently exempt from the limitations on debit and prepaid card Interchange Fees, and we expect them to continue to be exempt, we can offer no assurance or guarantee that they will remain exempt, and various events outside our control may cause these Issuing Banks to become subject to the interchange fee limits under the Durbin Amendment. In addition, new laws or regulations related to interchange fees may be enacted. For example, Illinois passed the Interchange Fee Prohibition Act (IFPA), which prohibits the collection of debit and credit card interchange fees in Illinois for the portion of a card transaction that is attributable to sales taxes, excise taxes and gratuities if the merchant informs the acquiring bank of the amount of these taxes and gratuities. The IFPA is expected to be effective on July 1, 2025, pending ongoing litigation. While any potential reduction in our revenue from the new law in Illinois is not expected to be material, if any additional legislation regulating Interchange Fees is enacted in other jurisdictions, then the portion of our net revenue derived from Interchange Fees may be adversely affected. Further, complying with a patchwork of state laws governing Interchange Fees may create compliance burdens for our Issuing Banks and us, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes to the rules or practices set by Card Networks or our failure to comply with their rules and practices could adversely affect our business. We are required to comply with the rules set by the Card Networks. The termination of the card association registrations held by us or any of our Issuing Banks or any changes to these Card Network rules or their interpretation could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. If we fail to make required changes or otherwise resolve an issue with the Card Networks, the Card Networks could charge us additional fees. We have been charged such additional fees in the past, and expect to continue to be charged such fees in the future as Card Network rules change. These additional fees are considered costs of revenue. If we fail to comply with such Card Network rules, we could also be fined and our registrations or certifications could be suspended or terminated which could limit our ability to process transactions and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption (AB&C), sanctions, and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws and regulations can subject us to criminal penalties or significant fines, adversely affect our business and reputation, or have other adverse consequences for us. We can be held liable under AML, AB&C, sanctions, and similar laws for the corrupt or illegal activities of our third-party intermediaries and our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not authorize such activities. While we have programs and controls designed to comply with applicable AML, AB&C, and sanctions laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that our programs and controls will be effective in ensuring compliance and that none of our third-party intermediaries or employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents will take actions in violation of those controls and laws. Ours or these third parties failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in a breach and/or termination of our agreements with Issuing Banks and customers and/or fines or penalties by governmental agencies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents We may be subject to governmental export controls and economic sanctions regulations that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and could subject us to liability if we fail to comply. Certain of our products and services may be subject to export control and economic sanctions regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges, fines imposed on us and responsible employees, and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees. Changes in applicable export or economic sanctions regulations, shifts in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations may create delays in the introduction and deployment of our platform and existing or future products and services in international markets, or, in some cases, prevent or decrease the use of our platform and existing or future products or provision of existing or future services in certain countries or with certain end users. Any decreased use of our platform, products, or services or limitation on our ability to provide our platform, products, or services could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Further, we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our products. Various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our customers ability to use our products in those countries if our products are subject to such laws and regulations. While we believe our encryption products meet certain exceptions that reduce the scope of export control restrictions applicable to such products, these exceptions may be determined not to apply to our encryption products and our products and underlying technology may become subject to export control restrictions. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of exports of encryption products, or our failure to obtain required approval for our products, when applicable, could adversely affect our international sales and net revenue. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report timely and accurate financial results or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired, and our business, operating results, and the price of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure