Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources Credit Agreement and Managements Assessment of Future Borrowing Base Availability and Future Plans. Our failure to identify, finance and consummate attractive acquisitions or take advantage of other investment opportunities without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems, would impede our growth and negatively affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Certain tenants/operators in our portfolio account for a significant percentage of the rent generated from our portfolio, and the failure of any of these tenants/operators to meet their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The successful performance of our real estate investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of our tenants/operators. Approximately 73.6% of the consolidated revenues (rental income and interest on mortgage notes and notes receivable) for the year ended December 31, 2018 was generated by Baylor Scott & White (25.6%), Fundamental Healthcare (17.2%), Vibra Healthcare (15.8%) and Life Generations (15.0%). In addition, our lease with Creative Solutions for the Texas Ten Portfolio, 18 which commenced on January 1, 2019, provides for initial annual base rent of approximately $7.7 million. Lease payment defaults by Baylor Scott & White, Life Genera tions, Fundamental Healthcare, Vibra Healthcare , Creative Solutions or other significant tenants/operators or declines in their operating performance could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders . For example, t otal base rent due under the Prior Texas Ten Tenants lease for the year end ed December 31, 2018 was approximately $12.9 million, of which we collected and recognized as revenue only approxim ately $6.9 million, which included the application of security deposits held by the Company equal to two months of base rent, as a result of ongoing operational issues with the Prior Texas Ten Tenant. If the property is subject to a mortgage, a default by a significant tenant/operator on its lease payments to us or a significant decline in operating performance at a facility may result in a foreclosure on the property if we are unable to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments. In th e event of a tenant/operator default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received, or at all, or that lease terminations will not cause us to sell the property at a loss. The result of any of the foregoing risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition , results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our healthcare properties and tenants/operators may be unable to compete successfully. We expect our healthcare properties often will face competition from nearby hospitals and other healthcare properties that provide comparable services. Some of those competing facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by nonprofit corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. These types of support are not available to our properties. Similarly, our tenants/operators may face competition from other medical practices in nearby hospitals and other medical facilities, including newer healthcare facilities. Our tenants/operators failure to compete successfully with these other practices could adversely affect the operating performance of our facilities. Further, from time to time and for reasons beyond our control, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change their lists of hospitals or physicians to which they refer patients. This could also materially and adversely affect our tenants/operators ability to meet our operating performance expectations and make rental payments to us or, if we lease properties to our TRS, our TRSs ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may have difficulty finding suitable replacement tenants in the event of a tenant default or non-renewal of our leases. We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current terms. If any of our leases are not renewed upon expiration, we would attempt to lease those properties to another tenant. In case of non-renewal, we generally expect to have advance notice before expiration of the lease term to arrange for repositioning of the properties and our tenants are required to continue to perform all of their obligations (including the payment of all rental amounts) for the non-renewed assets until such expiration. However, following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant in default, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant. We also might not be successful in identifying suitable replacement tenants or entering into leases with new tenants on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, or at all. For example, our new lease with Creative Solutions for the Texas Ten Portfolio provides for initial annual base rent of approximately $7.7 million, compared to approximately $12.9 million of total base rent that was due under the lease with the Prior Texas Ten Tenant for the year ended December 31, 2018. In addition, we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. Our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable tenant could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, certificate of need or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. In addition, our ability to locate suitable replacement tenants could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual restrictions on use of the properties, and we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default and could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, if we are unable to re-let the properties to healthcare operators with the expertise necessary to operate the type of properties in which we invest, we may be forced to sell the properties at a loss due to the repositioning expenses likely to be incurred by potential purchasers. All of these risks may be greater in smaller markets, where there may be fewer potential replacement tenants, making it more difficult to replace tenants, especially for specialized space, and could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 Our tenant at Lakeway Hospital has an option to purchase the property from us beginning after the third year of the lease term and has a right of first refusal and a right of first offer in the event that we intend to sell or otherwise transfer Lakeway Hospital, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders. We own a 51% interest in a consolidated partnership, or the Lakeway Partnership, that owns Lakeway Hospital and are lender to the Lakeway Partnership of a $73.0 million intercompany mortgage loan that is secured by Lakeway Hospital and bears interest at 8.0% per annum. The lease for Lakeway Hospital contains an option for the Baylor Lessee to purchase Lakeway Hospital commencing after the completion of the third year of the lease term for a purchase price of not less than approximately $203.6 million. If the purchase option is exercised, we may not be able to re-invest the expected net proceeds from the sale to us of not less than approximately $137 million on as favorable terms in a timely manner, or at all, and our operating results will be negatively impacted while we seek to reinvest the net proceeds from the sale. In addition, the Baylor Lessee has a right of first refusal and a right of first offer in the event that we intend to sell or otherwise transfer Lakeway Hospital, which could limit third-party offers for the property, inhibit our ability to sell the property or adversely affect the timing of any sale of the property and our ability to obtain the highest price possible in the event that we decide to market or sell the property. Recently developed properties may take longer than expected to achieve stabilized operating levels, if at all, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Recently developed properties, such as Mountains Edge Hospital, may take longer than expected to achieve stabilized operating levels, if at all. To the extent such facilities fail to reach stabilized operating levels or achieve stabilization later than expected, it could materially and adversely affect our tenants abilities to make payments to us under their leases and thus adversely affect our business and results of operations. A high concentration of our properties in a particular facility type magnifies the effects of events that may adversely impact this particular facility type. We intend to acquire income-producing healthcare properties diversified by facility type. However, approximately 81.1% of our consolidated rental income for the year ended December 31, 2018 was derived from skilled nursing facilities (30.8%), acute care hospitals (37.5%), and long term acute care hospitals (12.8%). As such, any adverse situation that disproportionately affects these facility types would have a magnified adverse effect on our portfolio. Properties in Texas, California and Nevada accounted for approximately 88.7% of the consolidated rental income from our portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2018, approximately 88.7% of our consolidated rental income was derived from properties located in Texas (48.0%), California (26.5%) and Nevada (14.2%). As a result of this geographic concentration, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the economies of, as well as other changes in the real estate and healthcare industries in, these geographic areas. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these geographic areas could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. In the event of negative economic or other changes in these geographic areas, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. Our real estate investments are, and are expected to continue to be, concentrated in healthcare properties, which could adversely affect our operations relative to a more diversified portfolio of assets. We invest in a diversified mix of healthcare facilities and healthcare-related real estate debt investments. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and the risks resulting from a lack of diversification may become even greater as a result of our business strategy to concentrate our investments in the healthcare sector. Any adverse effects that result from these risks could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of healthcare properties. Given our concentration in this sector, our tenant base is especially concentrated and dependent upon the healthcare industry generally, and any industry downturn or negative regulatory or governmental development could adversely affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments and our ability to maintain current rental and occupancy rates. Our tenant mix could become even more concentrated if a significant portion of our tenants practice in a particular medical field or are reliant upon a particular healthcare delivery system. Accordingly, a downturn in the healthcare industry generally, or in the healthcare related facility specifically, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Failure to succeed in investing in or acquiring different types of healthcare facilities or facilities in different geographic markets may have adverse consequences. We have invested in or acquired in the past, and we may invest in or acquire in the future if appropriate opportunities arise, types of healthcare facilities that are different than those we have previously invested in or acquired. Investing in or acquiring different types of healthcare facilities exposes us to a variety of risks, including difficulty evaluating the market conditions and industry trends specific to such facilities, evaluating quality tenants for such facilities and understanding rules and regulations specific to such 20 facilities . As a result, we may not be successful in investing in or acquiring types of healthcare facilities that are different than those we have previously invested in or acquired. In addition, we may look to expand into geographic markets across the United States beyond our existing markets. Investing in or acquiring facilities located in different geographic areas in the United States exposes us to further risks, such as lack of experience with the governmental and private third-party payors in such areas, lack of familiarity with the local market conditions and trends, difficulty in developing new business relationships in such areas and competition with other companies that already have an established presence in such areas. Our failure to succeed in investing in or acquiring different types of healthcare facilities or expanding into different geographic markets could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We depend on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed and each of whom would be difficult to replace. We depend on the efforts and expertise of Mr. McRoberts, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, Mr. Harlan, our president and chief operating officer and member of our board of directors, and Mr. Walraven, our chief financial officer, to execute our business strategy. If one or more of these individuals were to no longer be employed by us, we may be unable to find suitable replacements. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our executive officers and were unable to find suitable replacements, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control and may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could limit our ability, among other things, to meet our capital and operating needs or make the cash distributions to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required under the Code, among other things, to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements and the lack of otherwise available cash or cash equivalents, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we intend to rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. Our access to capital in the near term is limited due to, among other things, the restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings under the Credit Agreement for our secured credit facility and the borrowing base availability thereunder. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources Credit Agreement and Managements Assessment of Future Borrowing Base Availability and Future Plans. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage and likelihood of default, and any equity capital we may issue or sell to fund any such liquidity needs could be dilutive to your investment in us or to our net asset value. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: general market conditions; the markets perception of our business and growth potential; our current debt levels; our current and expected future earnings; our cash flow and cash distributions; and the market price per share of our common stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, meet the capital and operating needs of our existing properties, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We may be unable to secure funds for future capital improvements, which could limit our ability to attract or replace tenants/operators, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Although under our typical lease structure our operators generally are responsible for capital improvement expenditures, it is possible that an operator may not be able to fulfill its obligations to keep the facility in good operating condition. Further, we may be responsible for capital improvement expenditures on such facilities after the terms of the triple-net leases expire. In addition, when tenants/operators do vacate their space, it is common that, in order to attract replacement tenants/operators, we will be required to expend substantial funds for improvements and, for our leased properties, leasing commissions related to the vacated space. Such improvements may require us to incur substantial capital expenditures. If we have not established capital reserves for such capital improvements, we will have to obtain financing from other sources, which may not be available on attractive terms or at all. We may 21 also have future financing needs for other capital improvements to refurbish or renovate our properties. If we need to secure financing sources for capital improvements in the future, but are unable to secure such fina ncing or are unable to secure financing on terms we feel are acceptable, we may be unable to make capital improvements or we may be required to defer such improvements. If this happens, it may cause one or more of our properties to suffer from a greater ri sk of obsolescence or a decline in value, or a greater risk of decreased cash flows as a result of fewer potential tenants/operators being attracted to the property or existing tenants/operators not renewing their leases or operating agreements, as the cas e may be. If we do not have access to sufficient funding in the future, we may not be able to make necessary capital improvements to our properties, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition , results of operati ons and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency by our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors. We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors could become bankrupt or insolvent. Although our lease, loan and management agreements will provide us with the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. For example, a debtor-lessee may reject its lease with us in a bankruptcy proceeding. In such a case, our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap could be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and any claim we have for unpaid rent might not be paid in full. In addition, a debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to a landlord, are generally more limited. In the event of an obligor bankruptcy, we may also be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant, operator or manager. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected if an obligor becomes bankrupt or insolvent. Long-term leases may result in below market lease rates over time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have entered into long-term leases with tenants/operators at all of our single-tenant properties. Our long-term leases provide for rent to increase over time. However, if we do not accurately judge the potential for increases in market rental rates, we may set the terms of such long-term leases at levels such that even after contractual rental increases, the rent under our long-term leases could be less than then-current market rental rates. Further, we may have no ability to terminate those leases or to adjust the rent to then-prevailing market rates. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur additional costs in acquiring or re-leasing properties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may invest in properties designed or built primarily for a particular tenant/operator of a specific type of use known as a single-user facility. If the tenant/operator fails to renew its lease or defaults on its lease obligations, we may not be able to readily market a single-user facility to a new tenant/operator without making substantial capital improvements or incurring other significant costs. We also may incur significant litigation costs in enforcing our rights against the defaulting tenant/operator. These consequences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on our tenants and operators and on us. Some of our tenants and operators may rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues. Federal and state legislators and regulators have adopted or proposed various cost-containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare providers, and budget crises and financial shortfalls have caused states to implement or consider Medicaid rate freezes or cuts. Private third-party payors have also continued their efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services to be provided by our tenants and operators that currently depend on Medicare, Medicaid or private payor reimbursement. Regardless of the prevailing political environment in the United States, Medicare, Medicaid and managed care organizations are under increasing pressure to both control healthcare utilization and to limit reimbursement. Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed or on reimbursement rates and feeswhether from sequestration, alternatives to sequestration or future legislation or administrative actionscould have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their ability to make rental payments under, and otherwise comply with the terms of, their leases with us. 22 There are inherent risks associated with real estate investments and with the real estate industry, each of which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and the value of our properties. By owning our common stock, you will be subject to the risks associated with the ownership of real properties, including risks related to: changes in national, regional and local conditions, which may be negatively impacted by concerns about inflation, deflation, government deficits, high unemployment rates, decreased consumer confidence, liquidity concerns and other adverse business concerns; changes in local conditions, such as an oversupply of, reduction in demand for, or increased competition among, healthcare properties; changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; the attractiveness of our facilities to healthcare providers; and changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing real estate usage, zoning and taxes. Any of these factors could adversely impact our financial performance and the value of our properties. The illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to changing economic, financial and investment conditions, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, as a result, we will have a limited ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic, financial and investment conditions. We will also have a limited ability to sell assets in order to fund working capital and similar capital needs. In addition, healthcare properties are special purpose properties that could not be easily converted to general residential, retail or office use without significant expense. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We also may be required to expend significant funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold, and we cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. Our inability to dispose of assets at opportune times or on favorable terms could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Moreover, the Code imposes restrictions on a REITs ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. In particular, the tax laws applicable to REITs require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forego or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interests. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. We may structure acquisitions of properties in exchange for OP units in our operating partnership on terms that could limit our liquidity or our flexibility or require us to maintain certain debt levels that otherwise would not be required to operate our business. We may acquire certain properties by issuing OP units in our operating partnership in exchange for a property owner contributing property to our operating partnership. If we enter into such transactions, in order to induce the contributors of such properties to accept OP units in our operating partnership, rather than cash, in exchange for their properties, it may be necessary for us to provide them additional incentives. For instance, our operating partnerships limited partnership agreement provides that any holder of OP units may redeem OP units for cash equal to the value of an equivalent number of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis. Furthermore, we might agree that if distributions the contributor received as a limited partner in our operating partnership did not provide the contributor with a defined return, then upon redemption of the contributors OP units we would pay the contributor an additional amount necessary to achieve that return. Such a provision could further negatively impact our liquidity and flexibility. Finally, in order to allow a contributor of a property to defer taxable gain on the contribution of property to our operating partnership, we might agree not to sell a contributed property for a defined period of time or until the contributor exchanged the contributors OP units for cash or shares of our common stock. Such an agreement would prevent us from selling those properties, even if market conditions made such a sale favorable to us. Additionally, in connection with acquiring properties in exchange for OP units, we may offer the property owners who contribute such property the opportunity to guarantee debt in order to assist those property owners in deferring the recognition of taxable gain as a result of their contributions. These obligations may require us to maintain more or different indebtedness than we would otherwise require for our business. If we issue OP units in our operating partnership in exchange for property, the value placed on such units may not accurately reflect their market value, which may dilute your interest in us. If we issue OP units in our operating partnership in exchange for property, the per unit value attributable to such units will be determined based on negotiations with the property seller and, therefore, may not reflect the fair market value of such units if a 23 public market for such units existed. If the value of such units is greater than the v alue of the related property, your interest in us may be diluted. We have a limited operating history as a publicly traded company and limited resources and may not be able to successfully operate our business, continue to implement our investment strategy or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to stockholders. We cannot assure you that the past experience of our senior management team will be sufficient to successfully operate our company as a publicly traded company. We have a limited operating history as a publicly traded company, and we cannot assure you that the past experience of our senior management team will be sufficient to successfully operate our company as a publicly traded company, including the requirements to timely meet disclosure requirements of the SEC. We are required to develop and implement control systems and procedures in order to satisfy our periodic and current reporting requirements under applicable SEC regulations and comply with the NYSE listing standards, and this transition could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Failure to operate successfully as a public company could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and per share trading price of our common stock. In addition, our limited resources may also materially and adversely impact our ability to successfully operate our portfolio or implement our business plan successfully. As a result of our failure to successfully operate our business, implement our investment strategy or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to stockholders, the value of your investment could decline significantly or you could lose a portion of or all of your investment. We will continue to incur new costs as a result of being a public company, and such costs may increase if and when we cease to be an emerging growth company, which could adversely impact our results of operations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increased demand on our systems and resources. As a result, our executive officers attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect compliance with these public reporting requirements and associated rules and regulations to increase expenses, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. We could be an emerging growth company until December 31, 2021, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, which could result in our incurring additional costs applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of our executive officers time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. After we are no longer an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our auditors to deliver an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in conjunction with their opinion on our audited financial statements. Substantial work on our part is required to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. This process is expected to be both costly and challenging. The existence of any material weakness would preclude a conclusion by management and our independent auditors that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Our management may be required to devote significant time and expense to remediate any material weaknesses that may be discovered and may not be able to remediate any material weakness in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our consolidated financial statements that could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could lead to a decline in the per-share trading price of our common stock. 24 Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition , results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties may include, but are not limited to, liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, liabilities for failure to comply with fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. If a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We face possible liability for environmental cleanup costs and damages for contamination related to properties we acquire, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Because we own real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under these laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real estate for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. In addition, new or more stringent laws or stricter interpretations of existing laws could change the cost of compliance or liabilities and restrictions arising out of such laws. The cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could be substantial, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances on a property or the failure to meet environmental regulatory requirements may materially impair our ability to use, lease or sell a property, or to use the property as collateral for borrowing. The credit agreement for our secured credit facility restricts our use of proceeds from borrowings thereunder, restricts our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and contains other provisions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. Under the Third Credit Amendment (as defined below), the total commitments under the Credit Agreement were reduced from $425 million to $300 million and, as of February 25, 2019, we had $278.8 million in borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement. The Third Credit Amendment also restricts our use of proceeds from borrowings under the Credit Agreement to approximately $10.3 million for the remaining funding obligations for the expansion at Mountains Edge Hospital and under our construction mortgage loan to Haven Healthcare, unless approved by lenders representing two-thirds of the outstanding commitments under the Credit Agreement. This reduction in the commitments under the Credit Agreement and the use of proceeds from borrowings thereunder significantly limits our access to capital under the Credit Agreement to fund future acquisitions and investments. In addition, the Third Credit Amendment prohibits us from declaring or paying any dividend on or prior to June 30, 2019, other than, subject to certain conditions, (i) a dividend to our common stockholders attributable to the fourth quarter of 2018 not to exceed $0.21 per share, with payment conditioned upon approval by our stockholders of the merger with Omega, and (ii) the pre-closing dividend pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement with Omega. After June 30, 2019, the Credit Agreement limits our distributions to stockholders to 95% of funds from operations (as defined in the Credit Agreement), unless we are in default under the Credit Agreement, in which case we are limited to making distributions necessary to maintain our status as a REIT under the Code. These restrictions may reduce the amount of distributions we otherwise would make to stockholders. The amount available to borrow under the Credit Agreement is limited according to a borrowing base valuation of assets owned by subsidiaries of our operating partnership. Upon expiration of the extension of the borrowing base availability included in the Third Credit Amendment on June 30, 2019, we expect to have approximately $12.0 million in excess borrowings over the estimated borrowing base availability at that date. We can provide no assurances that we will have cash on hand or access to capital on attractive terms, or at all, in order to pay down the outstanding borrowings to an amount below our borrowing base availability at that time. We also can provide no assurances that the lenders would agree to an additional modification of the Credit Agreement to remedy any excess borrowings. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and financial and other affirmative and negative covenants. The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default, in certain cases subject to customary periods to cure, 25 including among others, nonpayment of principal or interest, material breach of representations and warranties and failure to comply with covenants. In addition, it will constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement if any two of our three executive officers leave our company and are not replaced by an executive officer reasonably acceptable to the lenders within 90 days of such departure. The occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, following any applicable cure period, would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare the unpaid principal, accrued and unpaid interest and all other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable, the funds for which may not be available to us on attractive terms, or at all, which could result in foreclosure on the equity interests in our subsidiaries that are pledged as collateral under the Credit Agreement. The result of any of the foregoing risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. We intend to continue to incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have financed and intend to continue to finance a portion of the purchase price of our investments in real estate and real estate-related investments by borrowing funds. As o f February 25, 2019, we had $278.8 million of debt outstanding , all of which was under our secured credit facility. Certain of our properties have been pledged as collateral for our secured credit facility. In the future, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge some or all of our real estate as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real estate or for working capital. We also may borrow funds to satisfy the REIT qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt and affect our distribution and operating strategies. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage, or replace certain members of our management team. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our investment objectives. High debt levels may cause us to incur higher interest charges, which would result in higher debt service payments and lower amounts available for distributions to our stockholders. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure on any of our properties will be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we will recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgage contains cross collateralization or cross default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be materially and adversely affected. Higher interest rates could increase our interest expense and may make it more difficult for us to finance acquisitions or refinance existing debt, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire or require us to sell properties on terms that are not advantageous to us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We currently have, and may incur in the future, debt that bears interest at variable rates. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest expense to the extent we have not effectively hedged against such increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, an increase in interest rates would increase the costs of financing acquisitions, which could limit our growth prospects, and of refinancing existing debt, which would increase our interest expense and could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. If we are unable to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all, due to higher interest rates or other factors, we may be forced to sell properties on terms that are not advantageous to us. If any of these events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act, we seek to manage and mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk attributable to variable-rate debt by using interest rate swap arrangements, interest rate cap agreements and other derivatives. The goal of our interest rate management strategy is to minimize or eliminate the effects of interest rate changes on the value of our assets, to improve risk-adjusted returns and, where possible, to lock in, on a long-term basis, a favorable spread between the yield on our assets and the cost of financing such assets. However, these derivatives themselves expose us to various risks, including the risk that: (i) counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements; (ii) the credit quality of the counterparties owing money under these arrangements may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transactions; (iii) the duration of the 26 hedging transactions may not match the duration of the related liability; (iv) these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes ; and (v) these arrangements may actually result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially and a dversely affect our business, financial condition , results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders . Our costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for public accommodations and commercial facilities that generally require that buildings and services be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The ADAs requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties or, in some cases, an award of damages. We attempt to acquire properties that comply with the ADA or place the burden on the seller or other third party, such as a tenant/operator, to ensure compliance with the ADA. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner. If we cannot, our costs associated with ADA compliance could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse in the event that our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property. The seller of a property often sells such property in its as is condition on a where is basis and with all faults, without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase and sale agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property, as well as the loss of rental income from that property which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Acquiring or attempting to acquire multiple properties in a single transaction may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. From time to time, we may acquire multiple properties in a single transaction. Portfolio acquisitions may be more complex and expensive than single-property acquisitions, and the risk that a multiple-property acquisition does not close may be greater than in a single-property acquisition. Portfolio acquisitions may also result in our owning investments in geographically dispersed markets, placing additional demands on our ability to manage the properties in the portfolio. In addition, a seller may require that a group of properties be purchased as a package even though we may not want to purchase one or more properties in the portfolio. In these situations, if we are unable to identify another person or entity to acquire the unwanted properties, we may be required to operate or attempt to dispose of these properties. Moreover, our ability to dispose of properties could be limited by our intention to avoid any dealer sale that could be subject to the 100% REIT prohibited transaction tax. To acquire multiple properties in a single transaction, we may be required to accumulate a large amount of cash. We would expect the returns that we earn on such cash to be less than the ultimate returns on real property. Any of the foregoing events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Uninsured losses relating to real estate and lender requirements to obtain insurance may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. There are types of losses relating to real estate, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, for which we do not intend to obtain insurance unless we are required to do so by mortgage lenders. If any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for uninsured losses, we could suffer reduced earnings. In cases where we are required by mortgage lenders to obtain casualty loss insurance for catastrophic events or terrorism, such insurance may not be available, or may not be available at a reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. Additionally, if we obtain such insurance, the costs associated with owning a property would increase. If any one of the events described above were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 27 Uncertain m arket conditions relating to the future disposition of properties could cause us to sell our properties at a loss in the future , which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition , results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We intend to hold our various real estate investments until such time as we determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives. Our management, subject to the oversight and approval of our board of directors, may exercise its discretion as to whether and when to sell a property, and we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time. We generally intend to hold properties for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Additionally, we may incur prepayment penalties in the event we sell a property subject to a mortgage earlier than we otherwise had planned. Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, and the potential payment of prepayment penalties upon such disposition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we sell properties by providing financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we decide to sell any of our properties, we intend to use our best efforts to sell them for cash. However, in some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default on its obligations under the financing. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of sale proceeds, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon the sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. In some cases, we may receive initial down payments in cash and other property in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price, and subsequent payments will be spread over a number of years. If any purchaser defaults under a financing arrangement with us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The loans that we have made and may make or purchase in the future may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2018, we had six healthcare-related debt investments in an aggregate amount of $52.0 million. We may make or purchase additional loans in the future. Such investments involve special risks relating to the particular borrower, and we are at risk of loss on those investments, including losses as a result of defaults on the loans. These losses may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including economic conditions affecting real estate values, tenant/operator defaults and lease expirations, interest rate levels and the other economic and liability risks associated with real estate. If we acquire property by foreclosure following defaults under our mortgage loans, we will have the economic and liability risks as the owner of such property. We do not know whether the values of the healthcare property securing any of our mortgage loans will remain at the levels existing on the dates we initially made or purchased the mortgage loan. If the values of the underlying healthcare properties drop or the borrower defaults, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans and other investments we intend to make, and, even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully sell any acquired equity interests or reposition any acquired properties, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. If a borrower defaults under mortgage or other secured loans for which we are the lender, we may attempt to foreclose on the collateral securing those loans, including by acquiring the pledged equity interests or acquiring title to the subject properties, to protect our investment. In response, the defaulting borrower may contest our enforcement of foreclosure or exercise other available remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other available remedies, or bring claims against us for lender liability. If a defaulting borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other available remedies against the borrower unless relief is first obtained from the court with jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. In addition, we are, and in the future may be, subject to intercreditor agreements that delay, impact, govern or limit our ability to foreclose on a lien securing a loan or otherwise delay or limit our pursuit of our rights and remedies. Any such delay or limit on our ability to pursue our rights or remedies could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Even if we successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our mortgage loans and other investments, foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in equity or property value could prevent us from realizing the full amount of our secured loans, and we could be required to write the asset down to its fair value and record an impairment charge for such losses. Moreover, we may acquire equity interests that we are unable to sell due to securities law restrictions or otherwise, and we may acquire title to properties that we are unable to reposition with new tenants or operators on a timely basis, if at all, or without making improvements or repairs to the properties at a significant expense. Any delay or costs incurred in repositioning the properties could adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. 28 The terms of joint venture agreements or other joint ownership arrangements into which we may enter could impair our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our business, financial condition , results of our operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may enter into joint ventures with affiliates and/or third parties to acquire or improve properties. We may also purchase properties in partnerships or other co-ownership arrangements. For example, we own Lakeway Hospital through the Lakeway Partnership, a consolidated partnership between us and local physicians and non-physician investors, and our partners approval is required for certain actions, including a sale or other disposition of a material part of Lakeway Hospital, incurring or modifying debt in excess of certain amounts (including modifying, prepaying or refinancing our mortgage loan to the Lakeway Partnership) and admitting additional partners or transferring existing interests in the Lakeway Partnership. Such joint ventures, partnerships or other ownership arrangements may involve risks not otherwise present when acquiring real estate directly, including the following: a co-venturer, co-owner or partner may have certain approval rights over major decisions, which may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest but opposed by our partners, co-owners or co-venturers; a co-venturer, co-owner or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals, which are, or become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in the joint venture, refinancing debt of the joint venture or the timing of termination or liquidation of the joint venture; a co-venturer, co-owner or partner in an investment may become insolvent or bankrupt (in which event we and any other remaining partners or members would generally remain liable for the liabilities of the partnership or joint venture); we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by our co-venturer, co-owner or partner; a co-venturer, co-owner or partner may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT; agreements governing joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships often contain restrictions on the transfer of a members or partners interest or buy-sell or other provisions that may result in a purchase or sale of the interest at a disadvantageous time or on disadvantageous terms; disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and that under certain joint venture arrangements, neither joint venture partner may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could be reached, which might have a negative influence on the joint venture. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our stockholders could be adversely affected. A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could result in a violation of law or negatively impact our reputation and relationships with our tenants/operators, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Information and security risks have generally increased in recent years due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations, and we also use mobile devices and other online activities to connect with our employees and our tenants/operators. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information, including business, financial and strategic information about our tenants/operators and us. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with our operations, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. Further, in the future we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. We can provide no assurances that the measures we have implemented to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents will be effective in the event of a cyber-attack. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of sensitive and/or confidential information, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third-parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, violation of privacy laws, loss of tenants, potential liability and competitive disadvantage, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on financial condition or results of operations. 29 Risks Related to the He althcare Industry Adverse trends in healthcare provider operations may negatively affect the operations at our properties, which in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We believe the healthcare industry is currently experiencing the following trends: changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services; changes in third-party reimbursement policies; increased expense for uninsured patients; increased competition among healthcare providers; increased liability insurance expense; continued pressure by private and governmental payors to reduce payments to providers of services; and increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by federal and state authorities and private insurers. These factors may materially and adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our tenants/operators, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our tenants, operators, borrowers, guarantors and managers and we may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement. The regulatory environment of the long-term healthcare industry has generally intensified over time both in the amount and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations. The extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include those relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by healthcare providers. Moreover, changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments have resulted in an increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties. We are unable to predict the scope of future federal, state and local regulations and legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation, and any changes in the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, operators, guarantors and managers, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Further, if our tenants, operators, borrowers, guarantors and managers fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties (some of which are discussed below), they could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to their operations. We also may become subject directly to healthcare laws and regulations because of the broad nature of some of these restrictions. Our tenants, operators, borrowers, guarantors, managers and we also could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants, operators, borrowers, guarantors and managers and the results of operations of our properties operated or managed by those entities could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We received a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) from the DOJ in September 2016, which indicates that it is conducting an investigation regarding alleged violations of the False Claims Act, Stark Law and Anti-Kickback Statute in connection with claims that may have been submitted to Medicare and other federal payors for services rendered to patients at Lakeway Hospital or by providers with financial relationships with Lakeway Hospital. The CID requested certain documents and information related to our acquisition and ownership of Lakeway Hospital. We have learned that the DOJ is investigating our conduct in connection with its investigation of financial relationships related to Lakeway Hospital, including allegations by the DOJ that we violated and are continuing to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act. We are cooperating fully with the DOJ in connection with the CID and have produced all of the information that has been requested to date. While we believe that our acquisition, ownership and leasing of Lakeway Hospital through the Lakeway Partnership was and is in compliance with all applicable laws, including meeting certain safe harbor requirements pertaining to such investments, we can provide no assurances regarding the outcome of the investigation, including whether or the extent to which the DOJ will seek monetary damages and/or other financial or other penalties. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant legal and other costs, and it may become necessary to divert management resources from our ordinary business operations in connection with the CID and the ongoing investigation. The incursion of these 30 costs and any adverse findings by the DOJ related to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. All healthcare providers are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which generally prohibits persons from offering, providing, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Certain healthcare facilities are also subject to the Federal Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the Stark Law. The Stark Law generally prohibits the submission of claims to Medicare for payment if the claim results from a physician referral for certain designated services and the physician has a financial relationship with the health service provider that does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a financial relationship under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions on kickbacks, physician self-referrals and submission of claims apply to state Medicaid programs, and may also apply to private payors under state laws. Violations of these laws subject persons and entities to termination from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded healthcare programs or result in the imposition of treble damages and fines or other penalties. Healthcare facilities and providers may also experience an increase in medical record reviews from a host of government agencies and contractors, including the HHS Office of the Inspector General, the Department of Justice, Zone Program Integrity Contractors, and Recovery Audit Contractors. Other laws that impact how our operators conduct their operations include: federal and state laws designed to protect the confidentiality and security of patient health information; state and local licensure laws; laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws generally affecting our operators management of property and equipment and how our operators generally conduct their operations, such as fire, health and safety, and environmental laws; federal and state laws affecting assisted living facilities mandating quality of services and care, and quality of food service; resident rights (including abuse and neglect laws); and health standards set by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. For example, HIPAA imposes extensive requirements on the way in which certain healthcare entities use, disclose, and safeguard protected health information (as that term is defined under HIPAA), including requirements to protect the integrity, availability, and confidentiality of electronic medical records. Many of these obligations were expanded under the HITECH Act. In order to comply with HIPAA and the HITECH Act, covered entities often must undertake significant operational and technical implementation efforts. Operators also may face significant financial exposure if they fail to maintain the privacy and security of medical records, personal health information about individuals, or protected health information. The HITECH Act strengthened the HHS Secretarys authority to impose civil money penalties for HIPAA violations occurring after February 18, 2009. The HITECH Act directs the HHS Secretary to provide for periodic audits to ensure covered entities and their business associates (as that term is defined under HIPAA) comply with the applicable HITECH Act requirements, increasing the likelihood that a HIPAA violation will result in an enforcement action. In October 2009, the Office for Civil Rights (OCR), issued an interim final rule which conformed HIPAA enforcement regulations to the HITECH Act, increasing the maximum penalty for multiple violations of a single requirement or prohibition to $1.5 million. Higher penalties may accrue for violations of multiple requirements or prohibitions. HIPAA violations are also potentially subject to criminal penalties. Additionally, on January 25, 2013, OCR promulgated a final rule that expands the applicability of and requirements under HIPAA and the HITECH Act and strengthens the governments ability to enforce these laws. Generally, covered entities and business associates were required to come into compliance with the final rule by September 23, 2013, though certain exceptions may apply. We cannot predict the effect additional costs to comply with these laws may have on the expenses of our operators and their ability to meet their obligations to us. For additional information on healthcare regulation and enforcement, see Item 1 BusinessRegulationHealthcare Regulatory Matters. We are unable to predict the impact of the Affordable Care Act or the results of any efforts to repeal and/or replace it. The Affordable Care Act has changed how healthcare services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in Medicare program spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payments, and expanding efforts to tie reimbursement to quality and efficiency. In addition, the law reforms certain aspects of health insurance, contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement, and encourages the development of new payment models, including the creation of Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs). Our tenants/operators may be negatively impacted by the laws payment reductions, and it is uncertain what reimbursement rates will apply to coverage purchased through the exchanges. We cannot predict the full impact of the Affordable Care Act on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business due to the laws complexity, limited implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, gradual and delayed implementation, and our inability to foresee how individuals, states and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the law throughout its gradual implementation. In addition, President Trump and the U.S. Congress have stated that they intend to, and have made various attempts to, modify, repeal, replace or otherwise invalidate all or certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act, including the repeal of the individual mandate as part of the new tax reform bill, which was signed into law by President Trump on December 22, 2017. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the Affordable Care Act or what effect President Trumps administration may have, if any, on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the Affordable Care Act could adversely affect our and our tenants business and growth prospects. 31 If we indirectly invest i n healthcare operators, we will be subject to additional risks related to healthcare operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may invest in hospitals or other providers that are tenants of our properties, structured, where applicable, in compliance with the REIT Investment and Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (RIDEA) or other applicable REIT laws or regulations. If so, we will be exposed to various operational risks with respect to those operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. These risks include fluctuations in patient volume and occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; federal, state and local regulations; the costs associated with government investigations and enforcement actions and False Claims Act litigation; the availability and increases in cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise); and other risks applicable to operating businesses. Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our tenants/operators may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to pay their rent payments to us and, thus, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As is typical in the healthcare industry, our tenants/operators may often become subject to claims that their services have resulted in patient injury or other adverse effects. Many of these tenants/operators may have experienced an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of professional liability and general liability insurance claims and litigation asserted against them. The insurance coverage maintained by tenants/operators may not cover all claims made against them nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to these tenants/operators due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, these types of tenants/operators of our healthcare properties operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits. We also believe that there has been, and will continue to be, an increase in governmental investigations of certain healthcare providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is generally not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on a tenant/operators financial condition. If a tenant/operator is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant/operator is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant/operator is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action, the tenant/operator could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which may affect the tenant/operators ability to pay rent to us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Merger and acquisition activity or consolidation in the healthcare industries resulting in a change of control of, or a competitors investment in, one or more of our tenants, operators or managers could have a material adverse effect on us. The healthcare industries have recently experienced increased consolidation, including among owners of real estate and care providers. We compete with other healthcare REITs, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders, real estate partnerships, banks, insurance companies, private equity firms and other investors that pursue a variety of investments, which may include investments in our tenants, operators, borrowers or managers. A competitors investment in one of our tenants, operators or managers could enable our competitor to influence that tenants, operators, borrowers or managers business and strategy in a manner that impairs our relationship with the tenant, operator, borrower or manager or is otherwise adverse to our interests. Depending on our contractual agreements and the specific facts and circumstances, we may have the right to consent to, or otherwise exercise rights and remedies, including termination rights, on account of, a competitors investment in, a change of control of, or other transactions impacting a tenant, operator or manager. In deciding whether to exercise our rights and remedies, including termination rights, we assess numerous factors, including legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant considerations. In addition, in connection with any change of control of a tenant, operator or manager, the tenants, operators, borrowers or managers management team may change, which could lead to a change in the tenants, operators, borrowers or managers strategy or adversely affect the business of the tenant, operator or manager, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure The stock ownership limits imposed by the Code for REITs and our charter may restrict stock transfers and/or business combination opportunities, particularly if our management and board of directors do not favor a combination proposal. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% of the value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, including through the application of certain attribution rules, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities such as qualified pension plans) at any time during the last half of a taxable year (other than the first year for which we qualify and elect to be taxed as a REIT). Our charter, with certain exceptions, 32 authorizes our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person or entity may actually or beneficially own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the applicable constructive ownership provisions of the Code, more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or 9.8% (by value or by numb er of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, in each case excluding any shares of our capital stock that are not treated as outstanding for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, grant an exemption to the stock ownership limits, subject to certain conditions and the receipt by our board of directors of certain representations and undertakings. Our charter also prohibits any person from (1) beneficially or constructively owning shares of our capital stock that would result in our being closely held under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, including, but not limited to, as a result of any person that operates a qualified healthcare property on behalf of a TRS failing to qualify as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in Section 856(d)(9)(A) of the Code), or us having significant non-qualifying income from related parties, or (2) transferring shares of our capital stock if such transfer would result in us being owned by fewer than 100 persons (determined without regard to any rules of attribution). The stock ownership limits contained in our charter key off the ownership at any time by any person, which term includes entities, and take into account direct and indirect ownership as determined under various ownership attribution rules in the Code. The stock ownership limits also might delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our authorized but unissued common stock and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of shares of our common stock or the number of shares of any class or series of preferred stock that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series of common stock or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control, which may discourage third parties from seeking change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the MGCL) may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under certain circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: business combination provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an interested stockholder (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and thereafter impose fair price and/or supermajority voting requirements on these combinations; and control share provisions that provide that control shares of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a control share acquisition (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding control shares) have no voting rights with respect to their control shares except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. As permitted by the MGCL, we have elected, by resolution of our board of directors, to exempt from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, any business combination between us and any person and, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, to exempt any acquisition of our stock from the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the exemption from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and may by amendment to our bylaws opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL at any time in the future. Additionally, certain provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or our bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) we do not currently employ. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our company or of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market 33 price. Our charter contains a provision whereby we elect to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of directors. Our charter, our bylaws and Maryland law also contain other provisions, including the provisions of our charter on removal of directors and the advance notice provisions of our bylaws, that may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our board of directors may change our business, investment and financing strategies without stockholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our investment and financing policies are exclusively determined by our board of directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not control these policies. As the market evolves, we may change our business, investment and financing strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In particular, a change in our investment strategy, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our properties or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to real estate market fluctuations. In addition, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our board of directors may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without stockholder approval. If this policy is changed, we may in the future become highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. Furthermore, as the market evolves, our board may determine that healthcare properties do not offer the potential for attractive risk-adjusted returns for an investment strategy. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. Changes to our strategies with regard to the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event that we take certain actions which are not in our stockholders best interests. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner that he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Under the MGCL, directors are presumed to have acted with this standard of care. As permitted by Maryland law, our charter eliminates the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our charter and bylaws obligate us to indemnify each present and former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. We also have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors granting them express indemnification rights. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our charter, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist for other public companies. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. Our charter provides that a director may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. Termination of the employment agreements with our executive officers could be costly and prevent a change in our control. The employment agreements that we entered into with each of our executive officers provide that, if their employment with us terminates under certain circumstances (including upon a change in our control), we may be required to pay them significant amounts of severance compensation, including cash severance payments and accelerated vesting of equity awards, thereby making it costly to terminate their employment. Furthermore, these provisions could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium paid for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 34 Conflicts of interest could arise between the interests of our stockholders and the interests of holders of OP units, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders. If we issue OP units in our operating partnership to third parties, conflicts of interest could arise as a result of the relationships between us, on the one hand, and our operating partnership or any limited partner thereof, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to us and our stockholders under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. At the same time, we, as the sole member of the general partner of our operating partnership, have fiduciary duties and obligations to our operating partnership and its limited partners under Delaware law and the partnership agreement of our operating partnership in connection with the management of our operating partnership. Our duties as the sole member of the general partner to our operating partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our company and our stockholders. These conflicts may be resolved in a manner that is not in the best interests of our stockholders. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes would subject us to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, which would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our short taxable year ended December 31, 2014. To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must meet various requirements set forth in the Code concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. We believe that our current organization and method of operation will enable us to continue to maintain our qualification as a REIT. However, at any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to determine that it is not in our best interest to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to revoke our REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, we generally would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. As a result of all these factors, our failure to maintain our qualification as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to you. Our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT could be adversely affected by our ownership of a health care facility if we lease a healthcare facility to a TRS lessee and such lease is not respected as a true lease for U.S. federal income tax purposes, if our TRS lessee fails to qualify as a taxable REIT subsidiary, or if the operator of the health care facility does not qualify as an eligible independent contractor. We may lease health care facilities to a TRS. If a lease of a health care facility to a TRS lessee is not respected as a true lease for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT. For the rent paid pursuant to any leases of health care facilities to a TRS lessee to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as a service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangements. We intend to structure any leases of health care facilities to a TRS lessee so that the leases will be respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with this characterization. If a TRS fails to qualify as a taxable REIT subsidiary under the Code, we could fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant is not qualifying income for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs. So long as the TRS lessee qualifies as a TRS, it will not be treated as a related party tenant with respect to our properties that are managed by an eligible independent contractor. We believe that our TRS qualifies to be treated as a TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the status of our TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If a given health care facility management company does not qualify as an eligible independent contractor or if a given health care facility is not a qualified health care property, we could fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Each property with respect to which our TRS lessee pays rent must be a qualified health care property. The REIT provisions of the Code provide only limited guidance for making determinations under the requirements for qualified health care properties and there can be no assurance that these requirements will be satisfied in all cases. Any health care facility management company that enters into a management contract with a TRS lessee must qualify as an eligible independent contractor under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by our TRS to be qualifying income for our REIT income test requirements. Complex ownership attribution rules apply for purposes of these 35 ownership thresholds. Althou gh we intend to monitor ownership of our stock by operators of our health care facilities and their owners, and certain provisions of our charter are designed to prevent ownership of our stock in violation of these rules, there can be no assurance that the se ownership levels will not be exceeded. The IRS may challenge the valuation of our assets and securities or the real estate collateral for the mortgage or mezzanine loans that we may originate and may contend that our ownership of such assets violates one or more of the asset tests applicable to REITs. We believe that the assets that we hold satisfy the asset test requirements. We will not obtain, nor are we required to obtain under the U.S. federal income tax laws, independent appraisals to support our conclusions as to the value of our assets and securities or the real estate collateral for the mortgage or mezzanine loans that we may originate. Moreover, the values of some assets may not be susceptible to a precise determination. As a result, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our ownership of securities and other assets violates one or more of the asset tests applicable to REITs. To maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of U.S. federal income and excise taxes, we may be forced to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities, pay taxable dividends of our stock or debt securities or sell assets to make distributions, which may result in our distributing amounts that may otherwise be used for our operations. To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, we normally are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. We are subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of our ordinary income, (2) 95% of our capital gain net income and (3) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on acquisitions of properties and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities, pay taxable dividends of our stock or debt securities or sell assets in order to distribute enough of our taxable income to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of U.S. federal income and excise taxes. Future sales of properties may result in penalty taxes, or may be made through TRSs, each of which would diminish the return to you. It is possible that one or more sales of our properties may be prohibited transactions under provisions of the Code. If we are deemed to have engaged in a prohibited transaction (i.e., we sell a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business), all income that we derive from such sale would be subject to a 100% tax. The Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% tax. A principal requirement of the safe harbor is that the REIT must hold the applicable property for not less than two years prior to its sale. It is entirely possible, if not likely, that the sale of one or more of our properties will not fall within the prohibited transaction safe harbor. If we acquire a property that we anticipate will not fall within the safe harbor from the 100% penalty tax upon disposition, we may acquire such property through a TRS in order to avoid the possibility that the sale of such property will be a prohibited transaction and subject to the 100% penalty tax. If we already own such a property directly or indirectly through an entity other than a TRS, we may contribute the property to a TRS. Though a sale of such property by a TRS likely would mitigate the risk of incurring a 100% penalty tax, the TRS itself would be subject to regular corporate income tax at the U.S. federal level, and potentially at the state and local levels, on the gain recognized on the sale of the property as well as any income earned while the property is operated by the TRS. Such tax would diminish the amount of proceeds from the sale of such property ultimately distributable to you. Our ability to use TRSs in the foregoing manner is subject to limitation. Among other things, the value of our securities in TRSs may not exceed 20% of the value of our assets and dividends from our TRSs, when aggregated with all other non-real estate income with respect to any one year, generally may not exceed 20% of our gross income with respect to such year. No assurances can be provided that we would be able to successfully avoid the 100% penalty tax through the use of TRSs. In certain circumstances, we and/or our subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Even if we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes or state taxes. As discussed above, net income from a prohibited transaction will be subject to a 100% penalty tax. To the extent we satisfy the distribution requirements applicable to REITs, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on our undistributed income. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain capital gains we earn from the sale or other disposition of our properties and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, our stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash 36 available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, our TRS, MedEquities Realty TRS, LLC, will be subject to corporate-level tax. The ability of our board of directors to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to maintain our qualification as a REIT. If we cease to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders. If our operating partnership were taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail maintain our qualification as a REIT and would suffer other adverse tax consequences. If additional partners are admitted to our operating partnership, we intend for our operating partnership to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of our operating partnership as a partnership, however, our operating partnership generally could be taxable as a corporation. In such event, we likely would fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the resulting corporate income tax burden would reduce the amount of distributions that our operating partnership could make to us. This would substantially reduce the cash available to make distributions to our stockholders. The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We may acquire mezzanine loans for which the IRS has provided a safe harbor but not rules of substantive law. In IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets certain requirements, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. We may acquire mezzanine loans that do not meet all of the requirements of this safe harbor. In the event we own a mezzanine loan that does not meet the safe harbor, the IRS could challenge such loans treatment as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset and gross income tests and, if such a challenge were sustained, we could fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Complying with the REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge risk effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities effectively. In general, income from hedging transactions does not constitute qualifying income for purposes of the 75% and 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs. However, to the extent, we enter into a hedging contract to reduce interest rate risk or foreign currency risk on indebtedness incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, any income we derive from the contract would be excluded from gross income for purposes of calculating the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if specified requirements are met. Consequently, we may have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This may leave us exposed to greater risks than we would otherwise want to bear and could increase the cost of our hedging activities because a TRS would be subject to tax on the income therefrom. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or sell properties earlier than we wish. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of shares of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, or we may be required to forego or liquidate otherwise attractive investments in order to comply with the REIT tests. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. We may make distributions consisting of both stock and cash, in which case stockholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash distributions they receive. We may make distributions that are paid in cash and stock at the election of each stockholder and may distribute other forms of taxable stock dividends. Taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of the distributions as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such distributions in excess of the cash received. If a stockholder sells the stock that it receives in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the distribution, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, in the case of certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to taxable dividends, 37 including taxable dividends that are paid in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders decide to sell their stock in order to pay taxes owed with respect to taxable stock dividends, it may put downward pressure on the tradin g price of our stock. You may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our common stock. Certain provisions of the Code and the stock ownership limits in our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, beneficially or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity beneficially or constructively owns our stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, our charter prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our stock. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of such ownership limit would result in our failing to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Dividends paid by REITs generally do not qualify for the favorable tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income paid to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates currently is 20%. Dividends paid by REITs generally are not eligible for such maximum tax rate. Although the favorable tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, such favorable tax rates could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the enactment of certain tax reform measures, could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. The legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act") was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders. The impact of the act on us and our shareholders is uncertain and may not become evident for some period of time. For example, the Tax Act contained provisions that may reduce the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT, including the lowering of income tax rates on individuals and corporations, which eases the burden of double taxation on corporate dividends and potentially causes the single level of taxation on REIT distributions to become relatively less attractive. The Tax Act also contains provisions allowing the expensing of capital expenditures, which could result in the bunching of taxable income and required distributions for REITs, and provisions extending the depreciable lives of certain real estate assets and further limiting the deductibility of interest expense, which could negatively impact the real estate market. In addition, although the Tax Act was recently passed, there can be no assurance that future changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulatory changes will not be proposed or enacted that could impact our business and financial results. The REIT rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Treasury Department, which may result in revisions to regulations and interpretations in addition to statutory changes. If enacted, certain of such changes could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent the Tax Act and any new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will impact the real estate investment industry or REITs. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effect of the Tax Act and potential future changes to the federal tax laws on an investment in our shares. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading volume and market price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future, including as a result of factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. In particular, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including, among others, the following: actual or anticipated differences in our operating results, liquidity or financial condition; changes in our revenues, FFO, AFFO or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us, our properties, the healthcare industry or overall real estate market; 38 increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher yield; additions and departures of key personnel; the performance and market valuations of other similar companies; the operating results of our tenants; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; actions by institutional stockholders; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; speculation in the press or investment community; the extent of investor interest in our securities; the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our underlying asset value; changes in accounting principles; investor confidence in the stock and bond markets generally; future equity issuances; failure to meet and maintain REIT qualification and requirements; low trading volume of our stock; terrorist acts; and general market and economic conditions, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their common stock. If the market price of our common stock is volatile and this type of litigation is brought against us, it could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Common stock eligible for future sale could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. As of February 25, 2019, we had approximately 31,840,651 shares of our common stock outstanding. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock or OP units, which, at our option, may be redeemed for shares of our common stock, in connection with the acquisition of investments, as compensation or otherwise, and we may grant registration rights in connection with such issuances. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of the common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market price of our common stock. We may be unable to make distributions at expected levels, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The Credit Agreement for our secured credit facility prohibits us from declaring or paying any dividend on or prior to June 30, 2019, other than, subject to certain conditions, (i) a dividend to our common stockholders attributable to the fourth quarter of 2018 not to exceed $0.21 per share, with payment conditioned upon approval by our stockholders of the merger with Omega, and (ii) the pre-closing dividend pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement with Omega. All distributions to our stockholders will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be based upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants (including the restrictions under the Credit Agreement), contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. If sufficient cash is not available for distribution from our operations, we may have to fund distributions from working capital, borrow to provide funds for such distributions or reduce the amount of such distributions. We may not be able to make distributions in the future, and our inability to make distributions, or to make distributions at expected levels, could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. 39 Future issuances of debt and preferred equity securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or future issuances of equity securities (including OP units), which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for purposes of making distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may issue debt or equity securities or incur other borrowings. Upon our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and other loans and preferred stock will receive a distribution of our available assets before common stockholders. If we incur debt or issue preferred stock in the future, our future interest and/or dividend costs could increase and adversely affect our liquidity, FFO, AFFO and results of operations. We are not required to offer any additional equity securities to existing common stockholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, additional common stock issuances, directly or through convertible or exchangeable securities (including OP units), warrants or options, will dilute the holdings of our existing common stockholders and such issuances or the perception of such issuances may reduce the market price of our common stock. Our preferred stock, if issued, would likely have a preference on distribution payments, periodically or upon liquidation, which could eliminate or otherwise limit our ability to make distributions to common stockholders. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities or incur other borrowings in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital raising efforts. Thus, common stockholders bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings will negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Increases in market interest rates may reduce demand for our common stock and result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by the distribution yield on our common stock (i.e., the amount of our annual distributions as a percentage of the market price of our common stock) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently low compared to historical levels, may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher distribution yield, which we may not be able, or may choose not, to provide. Higher interest rates would also likely increase our borrowing costs and decrease our operating results and cash available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. The information set forth under the caption Our Portfolio in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated by reference herein. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. On February 21, 2019, a purported stockholder of the Company filed a lawsuit against the Company, its board of directors and Omega in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, entitled Brekka v. MedEquities Realty Trust, Inc., et al. , Case 1:19-cv-00535-JKB. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the Company, its board of directors and Omega violated certain federal securities laws by making materially incomplete and misleading statements in, and/or omitting certain information that is material to stockholders from, the Registration Statement on Form S-4, as filed with the SEC on February 11, 2019 (the Form S-4), relating to the proposed merger between the Company and Omega. The complaint seeks, among other things, an injunction preventing the parties from filing an amendment to the Form S-4, an injunction preventing the consummation of the merger and, in the event the merger is consummated, rescission of the merger or damages, plus attorneys fees and costs. On February 22, 2019, another purported stockholder of the Company filed a derivative and class action lawsuit against the Company, its board of directors and Omega in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, entitled Scarantino v. McRoberts et al . The complaint alleges, among other things, violations of fiduciary duties by the Companys board of directors in connection with its approval of the Companys proposed merger with Omega and the omission from the Form S-4 of certain information that is material to stockholders. The complaint seeks, among other things, an injunction preventing the parties from filing an amendment to the Form S-4, an injunction preventing the consummation of the merger and, in the event the merger is consummated, rescission of the merger or damages, plus attorneys fees and costs. The Company believes that the claims asserted in the above referenced lawsuits are without merit and intends to vigorously defend the Company and the director defendants against these claims. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 40 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol MRT. Stock Performance Graph The following graph sets forth the cumulative total stockholder return (assuming reinvestment of dividends) to our stockholders during the period from September 29, 2016 (the date our common stock began trading on the NYSE) through December 31, 2018, as well as the corresponding returns on an overall stock market index (Russell 2000) and a peer group index (FTSE NAREIT Equity Healthcare REITs Index). The stock performance graph assumes that $100 was invested on September 29, 2016. Historical total stockholder return is not necessarily indicative of future results. The information in this paragraph and the following graph and table shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, other than as provided in Item 201 of Regulation S-K, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, except to the extent we specifically request that such information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporate it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. Period Ending Index 9/29/2016 12/31/2016 3/31/2017 6/30/2017 9/30/2017 12/31/2017 3/31/2018 6/30/2018 9/30/2018 12/31/2018 MedEquities Realty Trust, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 95.77 $ 98.55 $ 112.85 $ 106.99 $ 104.15 $ 99.49 $ 106.45 $ 95.86 $ 67.46 Russell 2000 100.00 108.83 111.52 114.26 120.74 124.77 124.67 134.34 139.14 111.03 FTSE NAREIT Equity Healthcare REIT 100.00 89.20 95.38 100.39 94.97 89.98 80.16 91.56 93.91 96.80 Stockholder Information As of February 19, 2019, there were approximately 20 holders of record of our common stock. However, because many shares of our common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we believe there are substantially more beneficial holders of our common stock than record holders. Dividend Information Any future distributions will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including our actual and projected results of operations, the cash flow generated by our operations, FFO, AFFO, liquidity, our operating expenses, our debt service requirements, capital expenditure requirements for the properties in our portfolio, prohibitions and other limitations under our financing arrangements, our REIT taxable income, the annual REIT distribution requirements, restrictions on making distributions under Maryland law and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. We cannot assure you that our distribution policy will not change in the future. For a description of restrictions on our ability to make 41 distributions, see Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Res ults of OperationsLiquidity and Capital ResourcesCredit Facility. For more information regarding risk factors that could materially adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, please see Item 1ARisk Factors. We anticipate that our distributions generally will be taxable as ordinary income to our stockholders, although a portion of the distributions may constitute a return of capital or may be designated by us as qualified dividend income or capital gain. We will furnish annually to each of our stockholders a statement setting forth distributions paid during the preceding year and their characterization as ordinary income, return of capital, qualified dividend income or capital gain. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a taxable U.S. stockholder under current U.S. federal income tax law to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholders adjusted tax basis in his or her common stock, but rather will reduce the adjusted tax basis of the common stock. Therefore, the gain (or loss) recognized on the sale of that common stock or upon our liquidation will be increased (or decreased) accordingly. To the extent those distributions exceed a taxable U.S. stockholders adjusted tax basis in shares of our common stock, they generally will be treated as a capital gain realized from the taxable disposition of those shares. The percentage of our stockholder distributions that exceeds our current and accumulated earnings and profits may vary substantially from year to year. During 2018 and 2017, we declared quarterly distributions aggregating $0.63 and $0.84 per share of common stock, respectively. Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements provides further discussion regarding the tax treatment of the common dividends paid. In order to maintain qualification as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders, on an annual basis, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. In addition, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income (including net capital gains) and will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under applicable U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to distribute our REIT taxable income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid any U.S. federal income tax liability on our income and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. We anticipate that our estimated cash available for distribution will exceed the annual distribution requirements applicable to REITs. However, under some circumstances, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable or make a taxable distribution of our shares in order to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the three months ended December 31, 2018, certain of our employees surrendered shares of common stock owned by them to satisfy their minimum statutory federal and state tax obligations associated with the vesting of restricted shares of common stock issued under our Amended and Restated 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the Plan). The following table summarizes all of these repurchases during the three months ended December 31, 2018. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares That May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 through October 31, 2018 - - N/A N/A November 1 through November 30, 2018 - - N/A N/A December 1 through December 31, 2018 9,678 $ 6.90 N/A N/A Total 9,678 (1) The number of shares purchased represents shares of common stock surrendered by certain of our employees to satisfy their statutory minimum federal and state tax obligations associated with the vesting of restricted shares of common stock issued under the Plan. With respect to these shares, the price paid per share is based on the fair value at the time of surrender. 42 It em 6. Selected Financial Data. The following table of selected financial information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015 and for the period ended December 31, 2014 is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. The data should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts). As of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 (1) Operating information: Total revenues $ 57,260 $ 61,105 $ 49,296 $ 44,438 $ 5,447 Preferred stock dividends - - 13,760 7,835 - Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 3,843 3,730 266 4,029 - Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders 5,663 20,422 (2,710 ) 4,866 23 Per share information: Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share: Basic and diluted $ 0.17 $ 0.64 $ (0.18 ) $ 0.42 $ (0.00 ) Dividends declared per common share $ 0.63 $ 0.84 $ 0.63 $ 0.85 $ 0.20 Balance sheet information: Total assets $ 632,789 $ 581,603 $ 519,753 $ 543,667 $ 211,033 Total debt $ 278,137 $ 215,523 $ 144,000 $ 247,400 $ 50,000 (1) Represents the period from April 23, 2014 (inception) to December 31, 2014. 43 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere is this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview and Background We are a self-managed and self-administered company that invests in a diversified mix of healthcare properties and healthcare-related real estate debt investments. As of December 31, 2018, we had investments of $590.2 million, net in 34 real estate properties that contained a total of 2,758 licensed beds and six healthcare-related real estate debt investments. Our properties are located in Texas, California, Nevada, South Carolina, Indiana, Connecticut and Tennessee and include 20 skilled nursing facilities, five behavioral health facilities, three acute care hospitals, two long-term acute care hospitals, two inpatient rehabilitation facilities, one assisted living facility and one medical office building. As of December 31, 2018, all of our properties other than our medical office building were 100% leased pursuant to triple-net leases with lease expirations ranging from March 2029 to September 2033. We conduct our business through an UPREIT structure, consisting of our operating partnership, MedEquities Realty Operating Partnership, LP, and subsidiaries of our operating partnership, including our taxable REIT subsidiary, MedEquities Realty TRS, LLC. Through our wholly owned limited liability company, MedEquities OP GP, LLC, we are the sole general partner of our operating partnership, and as of December 31, 2018, we owned all of the OP units of our operating partnership. In the future, we may issue OP units to third parties in connection with healthcare property acquisitions, as compensation or otherwise. There are no material differences between us and our operating partnership as of December 31, 2018. Recent Developments Merger Agreement On January 2, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the merger agreement) with Omega Healthcare Investors, Inc. (Omega) pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions set forth in the merger agreement, we will merge with an into Omega (such merger transaction, the merger) at the effective time of the merger (the merger effective time), with Omega continuing as the surviving company in the merger. At the merger effective time, each outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) 0.235 of a share of common stock of Omega, subject to adjustment under certain limited circumstances, plus the right to receive cash in lieu of any fractional shares of Omega common stock; and (ii) an amount in cash equal to $2.00, subject to adjustment under certain limited circumstances. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, we will declare a special dividend of $0.21 per share of our common stock payable to the holders of record of our common stock as of the end of trading on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE) on the trading day immediately prior to the closing date of the merger, which will be payable together with the cash consideration in the merger in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement (the pre-closing dividend). The merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including, but not limited to, the approval of our stockholders. The proposed merger is currently expected to close in the first half of 2019. The foregoing description of the merger and the merger agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the merger agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. Texas Ten Portfolio Update In November 2018, the Company signed a new, 15-year triple-net master lease with certain affiliates of Creative Solutions in Healthcare (Creative Solutions) for our portfolio of ten skilled nursing facilities located throughout Texas (the Texas Ten Portfolio) previously leased to affiliates of OnPointe (the Prior Texas Ten Tenant). The lease with the Prior Texas Ten Tenant was terminated on December 31, 2018 and the new lease with Creative Solutions commenced on January 1, 2019. The initial annual base rent under the lease is approximately $7.7 million with annual lease escalators of 2.0% and two, five-year tenant renewal options. The Texas Ten Portfolio accounted for approximately 24.2% of the Companys total real estate properties, net as of December 31, 2018. The lease with the Prior Texas Ten Tenant was a triple-net master lease with the tenant responsible for all costs of the facilities, including taxes, utilities, insurance, maintenance and capital improvements. Monthly base rent due under the master lease was approximately $1.1 million during 2017 and 2018. Beginning in May 2018, the Prior Texas Ten Tenant stopped paying the monthly contractual rent due under the master lease because of ongoing operational difficulties that adversely impacted its liquidity position. As a result of the operational issues and related non-payment of full contractual rent due, effective July 1, 2018, we began recognizing revenue under the master lease as cash was received from the tenant. Total base rent due under the Prior Texas Ten Tenants lease for the year ended December 31, 2018 was approximately $12.9 million, of which the Company collected and recognized as revenue approximately $6.9 million, which included the application of security deposits held by the Company equal to two months of base rent. During the quarter ended September 30, 2018, we reserved approximately $4.8 million for the balance of non-cash straight-line rent outstanding as of June 30, 2018 that has been previously recorded in rental income. Additionally, the Companys net income for the year ended December 31, 2018 was adversely impacted by approximately $1.5 million in property- 44 related expenses related to the Texas Ten Portfolio comprised primarily of property taxes for 2017 and 2018 , which were the responsibility of the Prior Texas Ten Tenant under their triple-net master lease. Fundamental Healthcare Portfolio Update We lease a portfolio of four properties Mountains Edge Hospital, Horizon Specialty Hospital of Henderson, Physical Rehabilitation and Wellness Center of Spartanburg, and Mira Vista Court to subsidiaries of Fundamental Healthcare (Fundamental) pursuant to a triple-net master lease (as amended, the Fundamental Master Lease), which is guaranteed by THI of Baltimore, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Fundamental (the Fundamental Guarantor). The Fundamental Guarantor operates approximately 82 skilled nursing facilities, one long-term acute care hospital, two acute care hospitals and one inpatient psychiatric hospital. The Mountains Edge facility is undergoing an expansion to add five operating rooms. Once construction is completed, Fundamental believes the facility will be able to provide a broad variety of surgical services that will result in higher patient volumes and reimbursements. The operating results of the Mira Vista skilled nursing facility have been adversely affected by turnover in the facilitys administrator position as well as by increased competition in the market. Primarily as a result of the operating performance at these two facilities, management of Fundamental has reported to us that, for the trailing twelve-month period ended September 30, 2018, the portfolio rent coverage ratio was 0.58x. Additionally, Fundamental management reported the fixed charge coverage ratio of the Fundamental Guarantor for the trailing twelve-month period ended September 30, 2018 was 1.06x. On October 6, 2018, we entered into the First Amendment (the Fundamental Lease Amendment) to the Fundamental Master Lease, pursuant to which we agreed to defer a portion of the monthly rent and certain other payments under the Fundamental Master Lease in the aggregate amount of approximately $2.4 million (the Total Abatement Amount) for the period from May 20, 2018 through March 20, 2019 (the Temporary Abatement Period). During the Temporary Abatement Period, Fundamental is required to pay monthly interest on the then-outstanding Total Abatement Amount at an annual interest rate of 9%, in addition to the reduced rent and other payments due under the Fundamental Master Lease. Beginning in April 2019, the Total Abatement Amount will be due in equal monthly installments over the remainder of 2019. As of December 31, 2018, the deferred rent balance was approximately $1.7 million, which is recorded in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet. At February 25, 2019, the deferred rent balance was approximately $2.0 million. In addition, the Fundamental Lease Amendment eliminated the covenants requiring a minimum portfolio fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum facility rent coverage ratio and amended the minimum portfolio coverage ratio to 1.20x through the quarterly reporting period of December 31, 2020 and 1.25x for each quarter thereafter. The minimum portfolio rent coverage and the Fundamental Guarantor fixed charge coverage ratio covenants do not apply during the Temporary Abatement Period. If the operating results of our Fundamental tenants and/or the Fundamental Guarantor do not improve, they may default on the lease payments or other obligations to us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 2018 Investments During the year ended December 31, 2018, we made the following investments: On September 21, 2018, we acquired the newly constructed Norris Academy, a psychiatric residential treatment facility for children and youth with neurodevelopmental disorders located in northeast Tennessee, which previously served as collateral for a construction mortgage loan provided by us. The purchase price of approximately $6.4 million was satisfied by applying the aggregate principal amount outstanding on the mortgage loan. The property is 100% leased to a wholly owned subsidiary of Sequel Youth and Family Services, LLC pursuant to a 15-year triple-net lease with two 10-year renewal options at an initial yield of 9.0% with annual rent escalators. On June 27, 2018, we acquired Southern Indiana Rehabilitation Hospital, a 60-bed inpatient rehabilitation facility located in New Albany, Indiana, a suburb of Louisville, Kentucky, for an aggregate purchase price of $23.4 million in cash. The property is 100% leased to an affiliate of Vibra Healthcare, LLC pursuant to a 15-year initial term triple-net lease with two five-year renewal options at an initial lease rate of 9.0% with annual escalators. On June 27, 2018, we entered into a loan modification agreement for the $10.0 million mortgage note with Vibra Healthcare, LLC and Vibra Healthcare II, LLC that converted the loan to a 10-year amortizing loan requiring monthly principal and interest payments with a balloon payment on the maturity date of June 30, 2023. As part of the modification, the borrowers repaid $1.0 million of principal. The interest rate on the loan remains unchanged at 9.0%. On April 6, 2018, we originated a $7.0 million pre-development note receivable with Medistar Stockton Rehab, LLC. The note accrues interest at an annual rate of 10.0% that is payable on the maturity date of February 28, 2019. The note is secured by a leasehold mortgage on the development of a future healthcare facility in Stockton, California. On March 29, 2018, we originated a $5.0 million mortgage note receivable with a subsidiary real estate entity of GruenePointe Holdings, LLC, which is secured by a second lien on a skilled nursing and assisted living facility (Adora Midtown) and a first lien 45 on an addi tional parcel of land in Dallas, Texas. The loan has a two-year term and an annual interest rate of 10.0% that is payable on the maturity date of March 29, 2020. We have an existing purchase option on Adora Midtown for a gross purchase price not to exceed approximately $28.0 million, plus an earnout that we may pay based on the facilitys earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent expense (EBITDAR) during the three years following the closing date of the acquisition. On February 16, 2018, we funded an additional $3.0 million under an existing mortgage note receivable with Medistar Corporation, which is secured by land and an existing building in Webster, Texas (the Medistar Gemini Mortgage Loan) that increased the total balance of the loan to $9.7 million. Effective with this additional funding, the interest rate under the loan increased from an annual interest rate of 10.0% to an annual interest rate of 12.0% and is payable upon the maturity date of the loan on February 28, 2019. On January 31, 2018, we originated a $5.4 million mortgage note receivable to Louisville Rehab LP to partially fund the construction of a 42-bed inpatient rehabilitation facility in Clarksville, Indiana. The note is secured by a second lien on the facility. The three-year loan has an annual interest rate of 9.5%, which has a claw-back feature that would equate to a 15.0% rate from inception of the loan should we elect not to exercise our purchase option. We have the exclusive option to purchase the new facility upon completion for approximately $26.0 million that would be leased pursuant to a 20-year triple net master lease guaranteed by Cobalt Medical Partners and Cobalt Rehabilitation Hospitals at an initial annual rate of 9.0%. On January 5, 2018, we closed on a construction mortgage receivable with a maximum principal amount of up to $19.0 million to Haven Behavioral Healthcare for the purchase and conversion of an existing long-term acute care hospital to a 72-bed inpatient psychiatric hospital in Meridian, Idaho. The loan has a three-year term and an annual interest rate of 10.0%. Interest accrues monthly and is added to the outstanding balance of the mortgage note receivable. Upon completion of the planned renovation, we have the exclusive right to purchase the property, for a purchase price equal to the outstanding loan balance, in a sale-leaseback transaction with a 15-year triple-net master lease with an initial yield of 9.3%. The balance outstanding under this loan was approximately $16.2 million on December 31, 2018. Mountains Edge Hospital Expansion Funding Pursuant to the Fundamental Master Lease (as defined above), we agreed to make available through March 2019 an aggregate amount of up to $11.0 million for the construction and equipping of certain new surgical suites at Mountains Edge Hospital, subject to certain terms and conditions. The base rent under the master lease will be increased by an amount equal to the in-place lease rate, currently 9.4%, of the amount advanced, as advances are made. As of February 25, 2019, approximately $6.6 million has been funded pursuant to this commitment. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management considers accounting estimates or assumptions critical in either of the following cases: the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material because of the levels of subjectivity and judgment needed to account for matters that are highly uncertain and susceptible to change; and the effect of the estimates and assumptions is material to the financial statements. Management believes the current assumptions used to make estimates in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are appropriate and not likely to change in the future. However, actual experience could differ from the assumptions used to make estimates, resulting in changes that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. These estimates will be made and evaluated on an ongoing basis using information that is available as well as various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Management has discussed the determination and disclosures of these critical accounting policies with the audit committee of the board of directors. The following presents information about our critical accounting policies including the material assumptions used to develop significant estimates. Certain of these critical accounting policies contain discussion of judgments and estimates that have not yet been required by management but that it believes may be reasonably required of it to make in the future. See Note 2 Accounting Policies and Related Matters to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on significant accounting policies and the effect of recent accounting pronouncements. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries, and all material intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation. We consolidate entities in which we own less than 100% of the equity interest but have a controlling interest through voting rights or other means. For these entities, we record a noncontrolling interest representing the equity held by other parties. 46 From inception, we continually evaluate all of our transactions and investments to determine if they repre sent variable interests subject to the v ariable interest entity (VIE) consolidation model and then determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. We make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an assessment of whether (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entitys activities without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate i nvestments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. This evaluation is based on our ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entitys economic performance. For investments not subject to the variable interest entity consolidation model, we will evaluate the type of rights held by the limited partner(s) or other member(s), which may preclude consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner or managing member would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership. The assessment of limited partners or members rights and their impact on the presumption of control over a limited partnership or limited liability corporation by the sole general partner or managing member should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner or managing member and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners or members, (ii) the sole general partner or member increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership or corporation or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership or membership interests. Our ability to assess correctly our influence or control over an entity at inception of our involvement or on a continuous basis when determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated financial statements. Subsequent evaluations of the primary beneficiary of a VIE may require the use of different assumptions that could lead to identification of a different primary beneficiary, resulting in a different consolidation conclusion than what was determined at inception of the arrangement. Revenue Recognition, Mortgage Loans and Receivables Leases of Real Estate Properties Upon inception of new lease arrangements, including new leases that arise from amendments, we assess the terms and conditions to determine the proper lease classification. A lease arrangement is classified as an operating lease if none of the following criteria are met: (i) transfer of ownership to the lessee, (ii) lessee has a bargain purchase option during or at the end of the lease term, (iii) the lease term is equal to 75% or more of the underlying propertys economic life or (iv) the future minimum lease payments (excluding executory costs) are equal to 90% or more of the excess estimated fair value of the leased building. If one of the four criteria is met and the minimum lease payments are determined to be reasonably predicable and collectible, the lease arrangement is generally accounted for as a direct financing lease. Currently, all of our lease arrangements are classified as operating leases. If the assumptions utilized in the above classification assessments were different, our lease classification for accounting purposes may have been different; thus the timing and amount of our revenue recognized would have been impacted, which may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We recognize rental revenue for operating leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term when collectability is reasonably assured and the tenant has taken possession or controls the physical use of a leased asset. For assets acquired subject to leases, we recognize revenue upon acquisition of the asset provided the tenant has taken possession or control of the physical use of the leased asset. If the lease provides for tenant improvements, we determine whether the tenant improvements, for accounting purposes, are owned by the tenant or us. When we are the owner of the tenant improvements, the tenant is not considered to have taken physical possession or have control of the physical leased asset until the tenant improvements are substantially completed. When the tenant is the owner of the tenant improvements, any tenant improvement allowance funded is treated as a lease incentive and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. The determination of ownership of the tenant improvements is subject to significant judgment. If our assessment of the owner of the tenant improvements for accounting purposes were different, the timing and amount of our revenue recognized would be impacted. In addition to minimum rental payments, some lease agreements may provide for contingent rents based on the lessees operations, such as a percentage of a lessees gross revenue increase over a specified base amount. Rental revenue related to any contingent rents is recognized only when the change in factor(s) on which the contingent rental payments are based actually occur. We monitor the liquidity and creditworthiness of our tenants and operators on a continuous basis to determine the need for an allowance for doubtful accounts, including an allowance for operating lease straight-line rent receivables, for estimated losses resulting from tenant defaults or the inability of tenants to make contractual rent and tenant recovery payments. This evaluation considers industry and economic conditions, property performance, credit enhancements and other factors. For straight-line rent amounts, our assessment is based on income recoverable over the term of the lease. We exercise judgment in establishing allowances and consider payment history and current credit status in developing these estimates. These estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, we have determined that no allowance for doubtful accounts is necessary. 47 Mortgage Loans, Other Receivables Loans receivable, including mortgage notes, are classified as held-for-investment based on managements intent and ability to hold the loans for the foreseeable future or to maturity. We recognize interest income on loans, including the amortization of discounts and premiums, using the interest method applied on a loan-by-loan basis when collectability of the future payments is reasonably assured. Premiums, discounts and related costs are recognized as yield adjustments over the term of the related loans. Loans receivable are placed on non-accrual status at such time as management determines that collectability of contractual amounts is not reasonably assured. While on non-accrual status, loans are either accounted for on a cash basis, in which income is recognized only upon receipt of cash, or on a cost-recovery basis, where cash receipts reduce the carrying value of the loan, based on managements judgment of collectability. Managements judgments regarding the collectability of amounts outstanding under loans receivable can affect the timing of revenue recognized and the financial statement presentation of these arrangements. Allowances are established for loans based upon an estimate of probable losses on an individual basis if they are determined to be impaired. Loans are impaired when it is deemed probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due on a timely basis in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan or lease. Determining the adequacy of the allowance is complex and requires significant judgment by us about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The allowance is based upon our assessment of the borrowers or lessees overall financial condition, resources and payment record; the prospects for support from any financially responsible guarantors; and, if appropriate, the net realizable value of any collateral. These estimates consider all available evidence including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the fair value of collateral, general economic conditions and trends, historical and industry loss experience, and other relevant factors. While our assumptions for any such allowances are based in part upon historical data, our estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Real Estate Investments We evaluate each purchase transaction to determine whether the acquired assets meet the definition of a business and make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase prices. For acquisitions accounted for as asset acquisitions, the purchase price is allocated to the various components of the acquisition based upon the relative fair value of each component. For acquisitions accounted for as business combinations, the purchase price is allocated at fair value of each component. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase prices of acquired real estate, we utilize a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property and other market data. We also consider information obtained about each property as a result of our pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the assets acquired. The most significant components of our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value to land and buildings and in-place leases and other intangible assets. The estimates of the fair value of buildings will affect the amount of depreciation and amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the property acquired. For any value assigned to in-place leases and other intangibles, including the assessment as to the existence of any above-or below-market in-place leases, management makes its best estimates based on the evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenants lease. Factors considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. These assumptions affect the amount of future revenue that we will recognize over the remaining lease term for the acquired in-place leases. The values of any identified above-or below-market in-place leases are based on the present value of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the in-place leases and (ii) managements estimate of fair market lease rates for the corresponding in-place leases, measured over a period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the lease, or for below-market in-place leases including any bargain renewal option terms. Above-market lease values are recorded as a reduction of rental income over the lease term while below-market lease values are recorded as an increase to rental income over the lease term. The recorded values of in-place lease intangibles are recognized in amortization expense over the initial term of the respective leases. Transaction costs related to asset acquisitions are included in the cost basis of the acquired assets, while transaction costs related to acquisitions that are deemed business combinations are expensed as incurred. Asset Impairment Real estate asset impairment losses are recorded when events or changes in circumstances indicate the asset is impaired and the estimated undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset are less than its carrying amount. Management assesses the impairment of properties individually and impairment losses are calculated as the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of assets to be held and used, and carrying amount over the fair value less cost to sell in instances where management has determined that we will dispose of the property. In determining fair value, we use current appraisals or other third party opinions of value and other estimates of fair value such as estimated discounted future cash flows. We evaluate the carrying values of mortgage loans, including mortgage notes receivable, on an individual basis. Management periodically evaluates the realizability of future cash flows from the mortgage loan receivable when events or circumstances, such as the non-receipt of principal and interest payments and/or significant deterioration of the financial condition of the borrower, indicate 48 that we will be unable to collect all the contractual interest and principal payments as scheduled in the mortgage agreement. An impairment charge is recognized in current period ea rnings and is calculated as the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan receivable and the discounted cash flows expected to be received, or if foreclosure is probable, the fair value of the collateral securing the mortgage. Stock-Based Compensation The fair value of stock-based awards is calculated on the date of grant. We amortize the stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the awards are expected to vest, net of any forfeitures. We may grant stock-based awards, in the form of restricted stock units, that vest based on the achievement of either performance conditions or market conditions. Typical performance conditions to vesting include growth in real estate investment assets and growth in quarterly adjusted funds from operations attributable to common stockholders per diluted share over a defined performance period. The fair value of awards subject to subject to performance conditions is determined based on the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant. Total compensation expense is recognized for awards with performance conditions based on the probable outcome the performance conditions. The probability of achieving a performance condition is assessed on a quarterly basis. The total compensation expense to recognize for awards with performance based vesting conditions including achievement of certain market conditions is based on our estimate of the ultimate fair value of such award after considering our expectation of future performance. Typical market conditions for these awards are based on our stock price levels or our total stockholder return (stock price and dividends) including comparisons of our total stockholder returns to an index of other REIT stocks. Since the awards are earned based on the achievement of market conditions, we must initially evaluate and estimate the probability of achieving the market conditions in order to determine the fair value of the award and over what period to recognize the stock compensation expense. Due to the complexities inherently involved with these awards, we will typically use an independent consultant to assist in modeling both the value of the award and the various periods over which each tranche of an award will be earned. We use what is termed a Monte Carlo simulation model which determines a value and earnings periods based on multiple outcomes and their probabilities based on significant inputs such as risk-free interest rate, expected volatility and expected service period that are made at the time of grant of the award. See Note 2 Accounting Policies and Related Matters in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information concerning recently issued accounting standards. Factors That May Influence Future Results of Operations Our revenues are derived from rents earned pursuant to the lease agreements entered into with our tenants and from interest income from loans that we make to other facility owners. Our tenants operate in the healthcare industry, generally providing medical, surgical and rehabilitative care to patients. The capacity of our tenants/borrowers to pay our rents and interest is dependent upon their ability to conduct their operations at profitable levels. We believe that the business environment in which our tenants operate is generally positive for efficient operators. However, our tenants operations are subject to economic, regulatory and market conditions that may affect their profitability, which could impact our results of operations. Accordingly, we actively monitor certain key factors, including changes in those factors that we believe may provide early indications of conditions that may affect the level of risk in our lease and loan portfolio. Key factors that we consider in underwriting prospective tenants, borrowers and guarantors and in monitoring the performance of existing tenants, borrowers and guarantors include, but are not limited to, the following: the current, historical and projected cash flow and operating margins of each tenant and at each facility; the ratio of our tenants operating earnings both to facility rent and to facility rent plus other fixed costs, including debt costs; the quality and experience of the tenant and its management team; construction quality, condition, design and projected capital needs of the facility; the location of the facility; local economic and demographic factors and the competitive landscape of the market; the effect of evolving healthcare legislation and other regulations on our tenants profitability and liquidity; and the payor mix of private, Medicare and Medicaid patients at the facility. We also actively monitor the credit risk of our tenants. The methods used to evaluate a tenants liquidity and creditworthiness include reviewing certain periodic financial statements, operating data and clinical outcomes data of the tenant. Over the course of a lease, we also have regular meetings with the facility management teams. Through these means we are able to monitor a tenants credit quality. Our approach to our investments in real estate-related debt investments is similar to our process when seeking to 49 purchase the underlying property. We service our debt investments in-house and monitor both the credit quality of the borrower as well as the value of our collateral on an ongoing basis. Certain business factors, in addition to those described above that directly affect our tenants and borrowers, will likely materially influence our future results of operations: the financial and operational performance of our tenants and borrowers, particularly those that account for a significant portion of the income generated by our portfolio, such as Baylor Scott & White Health, Creative Solutions, Life Generations Healthcare, Fundamental Healthcare and Vibra Healthcare (see Recent DevelopmentsTexas Ten Portfolio Update and Recent DevelopmentsFundamental Healthcare Portfolio Update above); trends in the cost and availability of capital, including market interest rates, that our prospective tenants may use for financing their real estate assets through lease structures; unforeseen changes in healthcare regulations that may limit the incentives for physicians to participate in the ownership of healthcare providers and healthcare real estate; reductions in reimbursements from Medicare, state healthcare programs and commercial insurance providers that may reduce our tenants profitability impacting our lease rates; and competition from other financing sources. Leasing Activity- Medical Office Building For additional information on the leasing activity at the Companys medical office building, see BusinessOur PortfolioLease ExpirationsMedical Office Building Lease Expirations. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands) For the year ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 $ % Revenues Rental income $ 52,701 $ 58,913 $ (6,212 ) (11 %) Interest on mortgage notes receivable 4,041 2,157 1,884 87 % Interest on notes receivable 518 35 483 1,380 % Total revenues 57,260 61,105 (3,845 ) (6 %) Expenses Depreciation and amortization 17,202 15,504 1,698 11 % Property related 2,797 1,482 1,315 89 % Real estate acquisition related 1,064 457 607 133 % Franchise, excise and other taxes 315 141 174 123 % General and administrative 13,900 11,677 2,223 19 % Total operating expenses 35,278 29,261 6,017 21 % Operating income 21,982 31,844 (9,862 ) (31 %) Other income (expense) Interest and other income 11 9 2 22 % Interest expense (12,487 ) (7,701 ) (4,786 ) 62 % (12,476 ) (7,692 ) (4,784 ) 62 % Net income $ 9,506 $ 24,152 $ (14,646 ) (61 %) Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest (3,843 ) (3,730 ) (113 ) 3 % Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 5,663 $ 20,422 $ (14,759 ) (72 %) Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased approximately $3.8 million, or 6%, over the prior year as a result of an approximately $6.2 million decrease in rental income, partially offset by an approximately $2.4 million increase in interest on mortgage notes and notes receivable. Rental income decreased approximately $11.5 million related to the write-off of straight-line rent and conversion of the Prior Texas Ten Tenant to non-accrual status for revenue recognition as described above under Recent DevelopmentsTexas Ten Portfolio Update. Additionally, rental income decreased approximately $1.3 million due to increased vacancy at our medical office building, North Brownsville Medical Plaza. This was partially offset by an increase in rental income of approximately $6.0 million from ten new properties acquired during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018 and a $0.5 million 50 increase in rental income primarily related to the Mountains Edge Hospital expansion funding described above under 2018 Investments- Mountains Edge Hospital Expansion Funding . Interest on mortgage notes and note receivable increased approximately $3.4 million as a result of the originati on of five mortgage notes and one note receivable during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, partially offset by a decrease of $0.9 million related to the conversion of a $12.5 million mortgage loan to fee simple ownership in November 2017. Total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased approximately $6.0 million, or 21%, over the prior year period, primarily from: (i) an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $1.7 million primarily associated with the ten real estate assets acquired during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, (ii) an increase in property-related expenses of approximately $1.3 million primarily related to approximately $1.5 million of 2017 and 2018 property taxes for the Texas Ten Portfolio, which were the responsibility of the Prior Texas Ten Tenant as described above under Recent Developments- Texas Ten Portfolio Update partially offset by a decrease in expenses related to the Companys one medical office building, (iii) an increase in real estate acquisition-related costs of approximately $0.6 million related to the write-off of capitalized project costs that are no longer being pursued; and (vi) a net increase in general and administrative expenses of approximately $2.2 million, comprised of higher professional service costs totaling $3.6 million that includes approximately $2.1 million in transaction costs incurred during the second quarter of 2018 and approximately $0.5 million in merger-related costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2018, partially offset by $1.4 million in reduced compensation and related expenses. Interest expense for year ended December 31, 2018 increased approximately $4.8 million, or 62%, over the prior year. This increase was the result of (i) a higher weighted-average outstanding balance under the credit facility of approximately $74.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year, (ii) a higher weighted-average interest rate under the credit facility, including the effect of the interest rate swap agreements, of 4.1% for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 3.2% for the prior year; and (iii) approximately $0.2 million in higher amortization of deferred financing costs primarily associated with the Second Amendment to our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement from October 2018, which is described below under Liquidity and Capital Resources- Credit Facility. Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 (dollars in thousands) For the year ended December 31, Change 2017 2016 $ % Revenues Rental income $ 58,913 $ 48,330 $ 10,583 22 % Interest on mortgage notes receivable 2,157 921 1,236 134 % Interest on notes receivable 35 45 (10 ) (22 %) Total revenues 61,105 49,296 11,809 24 % Expenses Depreciation and amortization 15,504 14,323 1,181 8 % Property related 1,482 1,303 179 14 % Real estate acquisition related 457 488 (31 ) (6 %) Franchise, excise and other taxes 141 366 (225 ) (61 %) Bad debt expense - 216 (216 ) (100 %) General and administrative 11,677 10,596 1,081 10 % Total operating expenses 29,261 27,292 1,969 7 % Operating income 31,844 22,004 9,840 45 % Other income (expense) Interest and other income 9 195 (186 ) (95 %) Interest expense (7,701 ) (10,883 ) 3,182 (29 %) (7,692 ) (10,688 ) 2,996 (28 %) Net income $ 24,152 $ 11,316 $ 12,836 113 % Less: Preferred stock dividends - (13,760 ) 13,760 (100 %) Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest (3,730 ) (266 ) (3,464 ) 1,302 % Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 20,422 $ (2,710 ) $ 23,132 NM NM = Not Meaningful Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased approximately $11.8 million, or 24%, over the prior year as a result of an approximately $10.6 million increase in rental income and an approximately $1.2 million increase in interest on mortgage notes receivable related to the origination of three mortgage loans in 2017. The $10.6 million increase in rental income compared to the 51 prior-year period was due to: (i) an approximately $2.4 million increase attr ibutable to rent al income from eight new properties acquired during the year ended December 31, 2017; (ii) an approximately $1.0 million increase related primarily to the Mountains Edge Hospital expansion funding during 2017 described above ; (iii) an approximately $0.2 million in crease in expense reimbursements; and (iv) a one-time write-off of $6.9 million in straight-line rent in 2016 as a result of the operator change at Lakeway Hospital to BSW Health and the termination of the prior tenants lease. Total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased approximately $2.0 million, or 7%, over the prior year which was comprised primarily of: (i) an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $1.2 million primarily associated with the eight real estate assets acquired during the year ended December 31, 2017; and (ii) an increase in general and administrative expenses of approximately $1.1 million resulting from higher insurance and salary-related expenses of approximately $0.2 million and approximately $0.8 million of stock-based compensation expense primarily related to the December 30, 2016 and January 1, 2017 equity grants. These increases were was partially offset by a decrease in franchise taxes of $0.2 million and a decrease in bad debt expense of $0.2 million recorded in the second quarter of 2016 associated with the operator change at Lakeway Hospital. Interest and other income for the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased $0.2 million. In September 2016, we recognized a surety bond fee of approximately $0.2 million. Interest expense for year ended December 31, 2017 decreased approximately $3.2 million, or 29%, over the prior year. This decrease was comprised of the following: Approximately $1.8 million in lower interest and unused credit facility fees as a result of (i) a reduction in the weighted-average outstanding balance under the credit facility of approximately $44.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year and (ii) a lower weighted-average interest rate under the credit facility, including the effect of the interest rate swap agreements, of 3.2% for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 3.6% for the prior year; and Approximately $1.4 million in lower amortization of deferred financing costs primarily associated with the amendment and restatement of the credit agreement in February 2017, which extended the maturity date of amounts due under the revolving credit facility to February 2021 and added the term loan with a maturity date of February 2022. Preferred stock dividends decreased approximately $13.8 million from the prior-year period as a result of the redemption in October 2016 of all of our 7.875% Series B Redeemable Cumulative Preferred Stock (Series B Preferred Stock) with a portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering (IPO). Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest represent the proportionate share of our partner in the operating results of the consolidated Lakeway Partnership. The net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $0.3 million for the prior year. The change represents the noncontrolling interest holders proportionate share of the $6.9 million increase in rental income as a result of the straight-line rent write-off in 2016 and $0.2 million decrease in bad debt expense resulting from the agreement in the second quarter of 2016 to an operator change to BSW Health at Lakeway Hospital and the termination of the prior tenants lease. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Liquidity is a measure of our ability to meet potential cash requirements, including ongoing commitments to repay borrowings, fund and maintain our assets and operations, make distributions to our stockholders and other general business needs. Our primary sources of cash include operating cash flows, borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility and secured term loan, and net proceeds from equity issuances. Our primary uses of cash include funding acquisitions and investments consistent with our investment strategy, repaying principal and interest on outstanding borrowings, making distributions to our stockholders, funding our operations and paying accrued expenses. At December 31, 2018, we had $8.4 million of cash and cash equivalents. As of February 25, 2019, we had approximately $5.6 million of estimated contractual obligations expected to be funded through June 30, 2019, excluding interest on our borrowings under the Credit Agreement. We expect to fund these obligations with a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Our long-term liquidity needs consist primarily of funds necessary to pay for the costs of acquiring additional healthcare properties and making additional loans and other investments, including funding potential future developments and redevelopments, and principal and interest payments on our debt. In addition, although the terms of our net leases generally obligate our tenants to pay capital expenditures necessary to maintain and improve our net-leased properties, we from time to time may fund the capital expenditures or other property-related items for our net-leased properties through loans to the tenants or advances, some of which may increase the amount of rent payable with respect to the properties. We may also fund the capital expenditures for any multi-tenanted properties, which currently include our one medical office building. We expect to meet our long-term liquidity requirements through various sources of capital, including future equity issuances (including limited partnership units in our operating partnership) or debt offerings, net cash provided by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, long-term mortgage indebtedness and other secured and unsecured borrowings. However, our access to capital in order to fund future acquisitions, investments and the other activities described above in the near term is limited due to, among other things, the restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings under the Credit Agreement and the 52 borrowing base availability under the Credit Agreement. See Credit Agreement and Managements Assessment of Future Borrowing Base Availability and Future Plans. Our ab ility to make distributions to our stockholders is limited by the covenants in the Credit Agreement as further described below. In addition, our ability to incur any additional other debt will depend on a number of factors, including our degree of leverage , the value of our unencumbered assets, compliance with covenants under our existing debt agreements, borrowing restrictions that may be imposed by lenders and the conditions of the debt markets. Our ability to access the equity markets also will depend on a number of factors, including general market conditions for REITs and market perceptions about us. Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to continuing covenants and are required to make continuing representations and warranties, and future indebtedness that we may incur may contain similar provisions. In addition, borrowings under the Credit Agreement are secured by pledges of the equity interests in substantially all of our subsidiaries. In the event of a default, the lenders could accelerate the timing of payments under the debt obligations and we may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources, which may not be available on attractive terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Credit Agreement Our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended, the Credit Agreement) provides for a $300 million secured revolving credit facility that matures in February 2021 and a $125 million secured term loan that matures in February 2022. The revolving credit facility has one 12-month extension option, subject to certain conditions, including the payment of a 0.15% extension fee. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the weighted-average interest rate under our credit facility was 4.9% and 3.6%, respectively. The weighted-average balance outstanding under our credit facility was approximately $253.0 million and $178.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The revolving credit facility includes an unused facility fee equal to 0.25% of the amount of the unused portion of the revolving credit facility if amounts borrowed are equal to or greater than 50% of the total commitments or 0.35% if amounts borrowed are less than 50% of such commitments. The amount available to borrow under the Credit Agreement is limited according to a borrowing base valuation of assets owned by subsidiaries of our operating partnership. The credit facility is secured by a pledge of our operating partnerships equity interests in its subsidiaries that own borrowing base assets, which is substantially all of our assets. On October 9, 2018, we entered into the Second Amendment (the Second Credit Amendment) to the Credit Amendment. The Second Credit Amendment amended certain terms, covenants and conditions of the Credit Agreement, including, but not limited to the following: increased the applicable margin from pre-amendment of 1.75% to 3.00% for LIBOR-rate loans and 0.75% to 2.00% for base-rate loans to post-amendment of 2.00% to 3.50% for LIBOR-rate loans and 1.00% to 2.50% for base-rate loans, in each case depending on the Companys leverage ratio, until the Performance Hurdle has occurred, at which time, subject to certain conditions, the applicable margins will revert to those in effect prior to the Credit Amendment; temporarily increased the borrowing base availability attributable to our borrowing base assets, other than the Texas Ten Portfolio, until December 31, 2018; reduced the borrowing base availability attributable to the Texas Ten Portfolio until the earlier to occur of the Texas Ten Revaluation Date and December 31, 2018; failure of the Texas Ten Revaluation Date to occur on or prior to December 31, 2018 would have resulted in the Texas Ten Portfolio being excluded as a borrowing base asset; until the Performance Hurdle has occurred, restricts the Operating Partnerships use of proceeds from borrowings under the Credit Agreement, unless approved by lenders representing two-thirds of the outstanding commitments under the Credit Agreement. Proceeds totaling approximately $20.4 million were pre-approved for specific uses, comprised primarily of the remaining funding obligations for the expansion at Mountains Edge Hospital and under the Companys construction mortgage loan to Haven Healthcare; provided that the covenants relating to (i) the minimum aggregate occupancy rate for borrowing base properties and (ii) the maximum adjusted net operating income attributable to a tenant or group of affiliated tenants, shall not apply on or before March 31, 2019; and did not place additional limitations regarding dividends and distributions prior to December 31, 2018 provided no default or event of default occurred as a result, in whole or in part, of the failure of the Texas Ten Revaluation Date to occur on or before December 31, 2018. Under the Second Credit Amendment, the Texas Ten Revaluation Date is defined as the occurrence of all of the following: (i) the written approval by the administrative agent and lenders representing 60.0% of the outstanding commitments under the Credit Agreement of a tenant for the Texas Ten Portfolio pursuant to a lease approved in writing by the administrative agent (the Replacement Texas Ten Lease) and a termination of the existing lease for the Texas Ten Portfolio, all pursuant to agreements 53 approved in writing by the administrative agent; (ii) d elivery to the administrative agent of a new appraisal of, and the determination of a new appraised value for, the Texas Ten Portfolio based upon the Replacement Texas Ten Lease; and (iii) compliance with each other provision of the Credit Agreement relati ng to the inclusion of borrowing base assets in the determination of borrowing base availability under the Credit Ag reement. The Company satisfied all of the criteria in the definition of Texas Ten Revaluation Date by December 31, 2018. Under the Second Credit Amendment, the Performance Hurdle is defined as the occurrence of all of the following: (i) the Texas Ten Revaluation Date shall have occurred on or before December 31, 2018; (ii) the completion of the expansion at Mountains Edge Hospital in accordance with the terms of the Fundamental Master Lease, subject to certain other conditions; (iii) the obligations of the tenant under the Fundamental Master Lease to pay full rent and of the tenant under the Replacement Texas Ten Lease to pay rent shall have commenced; (iv) no default or event of default under the Fundamental Master Lease or the Replacement Texas Ten Lease shall have occurred; (v) the tenants under the Fundamental Master Lease and the Replacement Texas Ten Lease shall have not less than one full quarter history of paying rent and reserves with no payment defaults, late payments or delinquencies; (vi) our operating partnership shall have delivered to the administrative agent a written request to return to the original pricing spreads in effect prior to the Credit Amendment (which request may not be delivered prior to July 1, 2019), together with a written certification that the foregoing conditions have been satisfied; and (vii) lenders representing two-thirds of the outstanding commitments under the Credit Agreement shall have approved the return to the original pricing spreads in effect prior to the Credit Amendment. Effective January 1, 2019, we had complied with the terms of the Second Credit Amendment including all the criteria in the definition of Texas Ten Revaluation Date. At that date, the temporary increase in borrowing base availability attributable to our borrowing base assets as provided for in the Second Credit Amendment expired, resulting in our borrowings under the credit facility exceeding borrowing base availability by approximately $7.2 million. On February 20, 2019, we entered into the Third Amendment (the Third Credit Amendment) to the Credit Agreement that further amended certain terms, covenants and conditions of the Credit Agreement and the Second Credit Amendment including, but not limited to the following: extends the increase in borrowing base availability attributable to our borrowing base assets provided for in the Second Credit Amendment, including the Texas Ten Portfolio, until June 30, 2019; restricts our use of proceeds from borrowings under the Credit Agreement to approximately $10.3 million for the remaining funding obligations for the expansion at Mountains Edge Hospital and under the Companys construction mortgage loan to Haven Healthcare, unless approved by lenders representing two-thirds of the outstanding commitments under the Credit Agreement; reduces the maximum amount available under the revolving credit facility from $300 million to $175 million which, when combined with the $125 million term loan, provides total commitments available to the Company under the Credit Agreement of $300 million; requires any principal repayment on the Medistar Gemini Mortgage Loan and Medistar Stockton Loan to be used to pay down the outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility; and prohibits us from declaring or paying any dividend on or prior to June 30, 2019, other than, subject to certain conditions, (i) a dividend to our common stockholders attributable to the fourth quarter of 2018 not to exceed $0.21 per share, with payment conditioned upon approval by our stockholders of the merger with Omega and subject to our maintaining a minimum of $2.0 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents upon payment of such dividend, and (ii) the pre-closing dividend pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement with Omega. We incurred fees associated with the Credit Amendment of approximately $0.8 million. These costs will be amortized to interest expense through July 1, 2019. We incurred fees associated with the Third Credit Amendment of approximately $0.2 million. These costs will be amortized to interest expense through June 30, 2019. We will write-off approximately $0.9 million related to unamortized deferred financing costs in the first quarter of 2019 related to the reduction in total commitments under the Credit Agreement. At February 25, 2019, we had $278.8 million in borrowings outstanding, of which $153.8 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility with a weighted-average interest rate of 5.25%, reflecting a 2.75% spread over LIBOR, and $125.0 million was outstanding under the term loan. As of February 25, 2019, we had approximately $10.3 million in pre-approved borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement. Our ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement is subject to ongoing compliance with various customary restrictive covenants, including with respect to liens, indebtedness, investments, distributions, mergers and asset sales. In particular, the Credit Agreement limits our distributions to stockholders to 95% of funds from operations (as defined in the Credit Agreement), subject to certain exceptions. The Third Credit Amendment further limits distributions through June 30, 2019 as described above. These restrictions may reduce the amount of distributions we otherwise would make to stockholders. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants. 54 The Credit A greement also contains customary events of default, in certain cases subject to customary periods to cure, including among others, nonpayment of principal or interest, material breach of representations and warranties and failure to comply with covenants. The occurrence of an event of default, following the applicable cure period, would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare the unpaid principal, accrued and unpaid interest and all other amounts payable under the credit facility to be immediatel y due and payable . We were in compliance with all financial covenants at Dec ember 3 1 , 2018. Our operating partnership is the borrower under the Credit Agreement, and we and certain of our subsidiaries serve as guarantors under the Credit Agreement. Managements Assessment of Future Borrowing Base Availability and Future Plans As noted above, our borrowings under the Credit Agreement exceeded borrowing base availability by approximately $7.2 million upon expiration on January 1, 2019 of the provisions in the Second Credit Amendment that temporarily increased borrowing base availability. The Third Credit Amendment extended to June 30, 2019 the increase in borrowing base availability attributable to our borrowing base assets provided for in the Second Credit Amendment, including the Texas Ten Portfolio. This extension increases borrowing base availability to cover all outstanding borrowings as of January 1, 2019 and the $10.3 million in pre-approved additional borrowings to complete the expansion at Mountains Edge Hospital and fund the remaining commitment under our construction mortgage loan with Haven Healthcare. All of our outstanding borrowings on the credit facility will be repaid upon closing of the announced merger with Omega, as discussed in further detail above under Recent Developments- Merger Agreement. In the event the merger is delayed or does not close as anticipated, the additional borrowing base availability and borrowings provided by the Third Credit Amendment, along with our current cash on hand and expected monthly net cash flows, are projected to provide sufficient liquidity to the Company to satisfy outstanding funding obligations, comprised primarily of the Haven construction mortgage loan and Mountains Edge construction project; ongoing operating expenses, including interest payments under the Credit Agreement; and required distributions to stockholders to satisfy REIT requirements through February 2020. Upon expiration of the extension of the borrowing base availability included in the Third Credit Amendment on June 30, 2019, we expect our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand would be sufficient to pay down the approximately $12.0 million in excess borrowings over the estimated borrowing base availability at that date. If our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents as of July 1, 2019 are not sufficient to cover any borrowings under the Credit Agreement that exceed borrowing base availability, and our merger with Omega has not yet occurred, management would seek an additional modification of our Credit Agreement to remedy the over-advanced position, which may include, but is not limited to, granting the lenders a first mortgage interest in its real estate portfolio in order to secure all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Based upon preliminary discussions with the lead agent under the Credit Agreement, management believes that a conversion to a mortgaged-back facility is executable and the value of our real estate investments is sufficient to cover amounts outstanding on the facility. Interest Rate Swap Agreements We may use interest rate derivatives from time to time to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. On February 10, 2017, we entered into interest rate swap agreements, effective on April 10, 2017, on the full $125.0 million on the term loan to fix the variable LIBOR rate at 1.84%, plus the LIBOR spread under the amended credit agreement, which was 2.75% at February 25, 2019. Sources and Uses of Cash Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 For the year ended December 31, 2018 2017 Change Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period $ 12,640 $ 9,771 $ 2,869 Net cash provided by operating activities 23,466 41,141 (17,675 ) Net cash used in investing activities (65,989 ) (77,069 ) 11,080 Net cash provided by financing activities 38,253 38,797 (544 ) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 8,370 $ 12,640 $ (4,270 ) Operating Activities- Cash flows from operating activities decreased by $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Operating cash flows were primarily impacted by a net decrease in cash of $7.5 million related to other operating assets and liabilities and a $1.6 million net decrease in deferred revenues based on the timing of rents collected. Additionally, there was a $5.8 million net decrease related to the conversion of the Prior Texas Ten Tenant to non-accrual status for revenue recognition as described above under the heading Recent DevelopmentsTexas Ten Portfolio Update. Operating cash flows were also impacted by an increase of $4.9 million in cash interest payments and $2.1 million in transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017. This was partially offset by increases in rent and interest income from acquisitions completed during 2017 and 2018. We expect that, on an annual basis, our cash flows from operating activities may exceed our cash 55 dividends to stockholders. However, to the extent cash distributions to stockholders exceed cash flows from operating activities in any period, we expect to fund such excess distributions with available ca sh on hand or, if permitted under the terms of the Credit Agreement, amounts available under our credit facility. Investing Activities- Cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $11.0 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. This decrease is mainly the result of completing fewer acquisitions partially offset by funding more debt investments during the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period. Financing Activities- Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $0.5 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The change resulted primarily from a reduction of $9.6 million in borrowings under our credit facility during the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, a decrease in dividends paid to common stockholders of $6.6 million and lower deferred loan costs paid of $2.0 million. Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 The sources and uses of cash reflected in our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are summarized below (dollars in thousands): For the year ended December 31, 2017 2016 Change Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period $ 9,771 $ 12,620 $ (2,849 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 41,141 30,452 10,689 Net cash used in investing activities (77,069 ) (340 ) (76,729 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 38,797 (32,961 ) 71,758 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 12,640 $ 9,771 $ 2,869 Operating Activities- Cash flows from operating activities increased by $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Operating cash flows were primarily impacted by a net increase in cash of $5.0 million related to other operating assets and liabilities and a $2.1 million net increase in deferred revenues based on the timing of rents collected. Operating cash flows were also impacted by an increase in cash of $3.1 million due to acquisitions completed during 2017. Investing Activities- Cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $76.7 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This increase was primarily related to the acquisition of eight properties totaling $55.2 million and the origination of three mortgage notes receivable totaling $21.1 million. Financing Activities- Cash provided by financing activities was $38.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to cash used by financing activities of $33.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The change resulted primarily from net borrowings under the credit facility of $72.2 million to fund the acquisition of eight properties and the origination of three mortgage notes receivable during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to a net repayment of $103.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The net proceeds of $224.3 million from our IPO in 2016 were used to redeem our Series B Preferred Stock and to pay down amounts outstanding under our credit facility, resulting in a reduction of $14.6 million in preferred stock dividends. These increases were partially offset by (i) $1.5 million in additional deferred financing costs related to the credit facility amendment in February 2017, (ii) $16.2 million in additional dividends paid resulting from the increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding as a result of our IPO in 2016 and (iii) $0.9 million in additional distributions to our noncontrolling interest. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018, excluding the impact of subsequent events (dollars in thousands): 2019 2020-2021 2022-2023 2024-Thereafter Total Secured credit facility (1) $ 8,285 $ 163,016 $ - $ - $ 171,301 Term loan (2) 5,739 11,479 125,645 - 142,863 Operating lease commitments (3) 351 379 362 19,617 20,709 Tenant renovation funding obligation (4) 5,691 - - - 5,691 Mortgage note funding obligation (5) 2,770 - - - 2,770 $ 22,836 $ 174,874 $ 126,007 $ 19,617 $ 343,334 (1 ) Assumes the outstanding balance of $153.8 million and the weighted average interest rate of 5.1% in effect at December 31, 2018 remain in effect until maturity of our credit facility. Amounts also include unused credit facility fees assuming the balance outstanding at December 31, 2018 remains outstanding through maturity of our secured revolving credit facility. 56 (2) Assumes the interest rate of 4.6 % in effect at December 31, 201 8 remain s in effect until maturity of the term loan. (3 ) All of our contractual obligations to make operating lease payments are related to our corporate office lease and one ground lease. (4) Pursuant to the Fundamental Healthcare master lease, we agreed to make available an aggregate amount of up to $11.0 million for the construction and equipping of certain new surgical suites. As of December 31, 2018, approximately $5.3 million has been funded. (5) On January 5, 2018, we closed on a construction mortgage note receivable with a maximum principal amount of $19.0 million to Haven Behavioral Healthcare. The balance outstanding under this loan was approximately $16.2 million at December 31, 2018. In connection with entering into the master lease with Creative Solutions, we agreed to indemnify Creative Solutions for certain Medicare liabilities up to a maximum amount of approximately $0.8 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2018, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We consider the following non-GAAP financial measures useful to investors as key supplemental measures of our performance: FFO attributable to common stockholders and AFFO attributable to common stockholders. Funds from Operations FFO is a non-GAAP measure used by many investors and analysts that follow the real estate industry. FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (Nareit), represents net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (losses) on sales of real estate and impairments of real estate assets, plus real estate-related depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Noncontrolling interest amounts represent adjustments to reflect only our share of depreciation and amortization. We compute FFO in accordance with Nareits definition, which may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO, or similarly titled measures, used by other companies. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, most real estate industry investors consider FFO to be helpful in evaluating a real estate companys operations. We believe that the presentation of FFO provides useful information to investors regarding our operating performance by excluding the effect of real-estate related depreciation and amortization, gains or losses from sales for real estate, including impairments, extraordinary items and the portion of items related to unconsolidated entities, all of which are based on historical cost accounting, and that FFO can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and between REITs, even though FFO does not represent an amount that accrues directly to common stockholders. Our calculation of FFO may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies that do not use the Nareit definition of FFO or do not calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (computed in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of our financial performance or to cash flow from operating activities (computed in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of our liquidity. Adjusted Funds from Operations AFFO is a non-GAAP measure used by many investors and analysts to measure a real estate companys operating performance by removing the effect of items that do not reflect ongoing property operations. To calculate AFFO, we further adjust FFO for certain items that are not added to net income in Nareits definition of FFO, such as acquisition expenses, non-real estate-related depreciation and amortization (including amortization of lease incentives, tenant allowances and leasing costs), stock-based compensation expenses, and any other non-comparable or non-operating items, that do not relate to the operating performance of our properties. For the year ended December 31, 2018, approximately $2.1 million of transaction costs comprised primarily of professional fees incurred during the second quarter of 2018 was added back in the calculation of AFFO. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2018, approximately $0.5 million of merger-related costs comprised of professional fees incurred in the fourth quarter of 2018 was added back in the calculation of AFFO. To calculate AFFO, we also adjust FFO to remove the effect of straight-line rent revenue, which represents the recognition of net unbilled rental income expected to be collected in future periods of a lease agreement that exceeds the actual contractual rent due periodically from tenants for their use of the leased real estate under each lease. Noncontrolling interest amounts represent adjustments to reflect only our share of straight line rent revenue. Our calculation of AFFO may differ from the methodology used for calculating AFFO by certain other REITs and, accordingly, our AFFO may not be comparable to AFFO reported by other REITs. AFFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (computed in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of our financial performance or to cash flow from operating activities (computed in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of our liquidity. 57 The table below reconciles net income attributable to common stockholders, the most directly comparable GAAP metric, to FFO and AFFO att ributable to common stockholders for the years ended December 31, 201 8, 2017 and 201 6 and is presented using the weighted average common shares as determined in our computation of earnings per share. The effects of restricted shares of common stock were in cluded in the dilutive weighted-average common shares outstanding for the calculation of FFO and AFFO per common share for the year ended December 31, 2016, as their effects were dilutive. These shares were excluded from the calculation of diluted net inco me (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share for the year ended December 31, 2016 because their effects were not dilutive. FFO and AFFO attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 include the effects of the reduction in revenues and increase in property tax expense related to the Texas Ten Portfolio as described above under the heading Recent DevelopmentsTexas Ten Portfolio Update and higher interest expense, partially offset by higher revenues from new investment activities. FFO attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2018 also includes the effect of $2.1 million in transaction costs incurred primarily in the second quarter of 2018 and $0.5 million in merger-related costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2018 comprised primarily of professional fees. The increase in FFO attributable to common stockholders and AFFO attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 is primarily related to the acquisition of eight properties and the origination of three mortgage notes receivable during the year ended December 31, 2017, as well as the use of proceeds from our IPO in October 2016, in which we redeemed all outstanding preferred stock and partially repaid amounts outstanding on our prior credit facility, resulting in a lower weighted-average balance. The weighted-average interest rate on borrowings on the prior credit facility was also reduced as a result of completing our IPO in October 2016 and the amended credit facility in February 2017. Additionally, FFO attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2016 includes our proportionate share of the straight-line rent write-off resulting from the agreement to an operator change to BSW Health at Lakeway Hospital and the termination of the prior tenants lease as discussed above in Results of Operations. 58 The amounts presented below are in thousands, except per share amounts. For the year ended December 31, 2018 For the year ended December 31, 2017 For the year ended December 31, 2016 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 5,663 $ 20,422 $ (2,710 ) Real estate depreciation and amortization, net of noncontrolling interest 16,871 15,177 14,123 FFO attributable to common stockholders 22,534 35,599 11,413 Acquisition costs on completed acquisitions - - 18 Stock-based compensation expense 3,405 3,387 2,555 Deferred financing costs amortization 1,281 1,051 2,466 Expensed transaction costs 2,089 - - Merger-related costs 520 - - Non-real estate depreciation and amortization 537 560 307 Preferred stock redemption premium paid upon completion of the IPO - - 6,256 Surety bond fee - - (188 ) Straight-line rent expense 149 157 165 Straight-line rent revenue, net of noncontrolling interest 121 (4,822 ) 278 AFFO attributable to common stockholders $ 30,636 $ 35,932 $ 23,270 Weighted average shares outstanding-earnings per share Basic 31,597 31,447 15,838 Diluted 31,601 31,484 15,838 Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share Basic and diluted $ 0.17 $ 0.64 $ (0.18 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding- FFO and AFFO attributable to common stockholders Basic 31,597 31,447 15,838 Diluted 31,601 31,484 15,926 FFO per common share Basic and diluted $ 0.71 $ 1.13 $ 0.72 AFFO per common share Basic $ 0.97 $ 1.14 $ 1.47 Diluted $ 0.97 $ 1.14 $ 1.46 Inflation We are exposed to inflation risk as income from long-term leases on our single-tenant leased properties are a main source of our cash flows from operations. For our single-tenant leased properties, the majority of our leases protect us from the impact of inflation. These leases generally include fixed rent escalators and are considered triple-net leases. Therefore, the tenants of these properties are responsible for the payment of all property-related expenses, including utilities, real estate taxes, and insurance. However, due to the long-term nature of the anticipated leases, among other factors, the leases may not re-set frequently enough to cover inflation.