Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to Marvell, we, us, our or the Company mean Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are one of the worlds largest fabless semiconductor providers of high-performance application-specific standard products. Our core strength of expertise is the development of complex System-on-a-Chip (SoC) devices, leveraging our extensive technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing and embedded and standalone ARM-based microprocessor integrated circuits. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for data storage, enterprise-class Ethernet data switching, Ethernet physical-layer transceivers (PHY), mobile handsets and other consumer electronics, wireless networking, personal area networking, Ethernet-based PC connectivity, control plane communications controllers, video-image processing and power management solutions. We were incorporated in Bermuda in January 1995. Our registered and mailing address is Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda, and our telephone number there is (441) 296-6395. The address of our United States operating subsidiary is Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., 5488 Marvell Lane, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number there is (408) 222-2500. We also have operations in many countries, including Canada, China, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to the fiscal year ended January 27, 2007 as fiscal 2007, the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 as fiscal 2008, the fiscal year ended January 29, 2009 as fiscal 2009, the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 as fiscal 2010, the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 as fiscal 2011, the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 as fiscal 2012 and the fiscal year ending February 2, 2013 as fiscal 2013. Available Information Our website address is located at www.marvell.com. The information contained in our website does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, we make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Industry Background The semiconductor industry has evolved over the last five decades primarily due to the rapid and systematic advancements in photolithography techniques and new materials used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, which has enabled the fabrication of transistor devices with a greater number of features and functions at ever-smaller chip sizes and with increasing power efficiency. As transistor line widths shrink over time, transistor density increases proportionally, enabling the manufacture of ever more complex devices in a fixed area of silicon. This phenomenon, known as Moores Law, states that with the transition to each new successive process node, transistor device size will shrink by 0.7. This can enable a 2 increase in the number of transistors, an increase in device performance, a reduction in size of the chip, or additional functionality. Furthermore, the transition to ever smaller process geometries results in proportionally lower power consumption of integrated circuits. The effect of Moores Law on the semiconductor industry has been a rapid increase in the processing speed, the device density of integrated circuits and improved power efficiency. This has enabled the integration of multiple complex functions onto a single piece of silicon, which in the past required multiple discrete integrated circuits. Concurrently, with the advances in semiconductor technology, there has been an evolutionary shift toward standards-based communication interconnect protocols, such as Ethernet. This has given rise to a large and diverse number of electronic systems suppliers to address the simultaneous transmission of voice, video, audio and data through both wired and wireless connections. 4 Table of Contents Technological innovations have increased the capability to transmit and process information, which has led to both business enterprise and consumer electronic devices sharing and communicating ever larger amounts of information for a wide array of applications. Due in part to the ongoing evolution of both semiconductor and communications technology, the bandwidth demanded by users has continued to expand at an exponential rate. Additionally, as the bandwidth demand of both enterprise and consumer users increase, there has been a commensurate increase in the required amount of data storage capacity. We believe the market effects enabled by both the advances in semiconductor and communication technologies will provide a large and growing market for our products, technologies and intellectual property capabilities. Within most modern electronic systems, in both the enterprise and consumer application domain, the device interconnects and data transmission occurs within the analog signal domain. However, due to advanced technologies, modern systems approaches and new algorithms, most new products convert the analog signals into digital signals to process the information. Given the high volume and cost sensitive nature of both enterprise and consumer applications, it is very beneficial to be able to integrate many of the analog and digital functions onto a single integrated circuit, which can help to increase system performance, lower costs and lower overall power consumption. As a result, these devices require a combination of both analog and digital integrated circuit technologies, more commonly known as mixed-signal technology. Historically, the ability to manufacture mixed-signal technologies required the use of expensive, non-scalable semiconductor manufacturing process technologies. However, to achieve price points that will accelerate the acceptance of these highly integrated mixed-signal devices, a small number of semiconductor suppliers, including us, have invested in the fundamental research and development capability, which allows for the use of high volume, lower cost and scalable complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) fabrication technology. Because the processing requirements of these mixed-signal integrated circuits continue to expand with the increased performance and sophistication of the devices in which they are embedded, many of these integrated circuits are now also integrating high performance embedded microprocessors and complex digital signal processors to handle this increased workload. This minimizes or eliminates the need for a costly host central processing unit (CPU). With improvements in the performance of such embedded microprocessors, devices can further expand their capabilities while at the same time minimizing power requirements. Many of these new, sophisticated devices are also handheld battery-powered devices in which minimizing the power consumption is critical to maximizing the life of the battery. Utilizing highly integrated circuits that are optimized for power efficiency is a critical factor for such handheld devices. Additionally, advanced digital power management solutions that regulate the power supply to the integrated circuits in an efficient and cost-effective manner are becoming increasingly important to help reduce overall power consumption and the total size of the solution. Platform Integration Over the last several years, we have transitioned from a supplier of standalone semiconductor components to a supplier of fully integrated platform solutions. Our platform solutions contain multiple intellectual property components in integrated hardware along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies, designed and configured to provide an optimized solution compared to individual components. Our solutions have become increasingly integrated, with ever more components resulting in an all-in-one solution for a given customers end product. The demand for such highly integrated platform solutions is generally driven by technological changes and the anticipation of the future needs of the device manufacturer. For example, in order to provide a complete solution for a specific handheld consumer electronics device, a device manufacturer may require a solution that integrates a high performance applications processor, along with seamless communications capability with a 3G/4G multi-band modem, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, radio frequency (RF), GPS and NFC. In addition, a device manufacturer may require graphics processing, high-definition audio and power management. These platforms will often cross multiple end markets, integrating components and technologies traditionally associated with one end market with components and technologies from another end market. For example, we 5 Table of Contents may integrate an applications processor, traditionally associated with the mobile and wireless end market, with software and other components in an end user product targeting the home cloud. Therefore, it has become critical that our products across multiple end markets work seamlessly together. In addition, software has become increasingly important to our business over the last several years, and we expect software to become even more important in the years to come. On-chip software, which acts as the driver for the functionality of the chip, has always been a critical part of our business. However, the software that we deliver with our chip has become significantly more complex as the range of uses and the needs in application-level software have increased. For example, a chip that we develop for a smartphone may need to include software that is compatible with the latest version of a specific companys operating system that enables 3D graphics and that works seamlessly with a variety of popular end user applications. This requires a significant amount of up-front software development, testing, and often additional licensing. Lastly, the market for consumer electronics devices is becoming increasingly standards-based. These standards change rapidly and often several different standards may exist and overlap in a single market. Our platforms must be designed to operate seamlessly with all relevant standards, which requires us to design products in anticipation of these relevant standards. For example, we have communications processors designed to operate on several different cellular standards, including EDGE, WCDMA (3G), TD-SCDMA (China 3G) and 4G/LTE. In summary, while providing the most advanced components at the lowest possible price remains critical to our business, continuing the transformation into a platform company through the integration of multiple components together with on industry-leading software capability will continue to increase in importance to our overall success. Our Markets and Products When the company began, our core technologies were initially focused on the storage market, where we provide high-performance products to storage companies for traditional HDD to companies such as Hitachi Ltd., Samsung Semiconductor, Seagate Technology, Toshiba Corporation and Western Digital Corporation. Over the past few years, we have expanded on our core storage technologies by developing solid state flash drive (SSD) controllers, which are currently sold to flash providers who are building drives based on SSD, such as Micron, Sandisk, Toshiba, and others. The storage end markets continue to drive approximately 46% of our revenues on an annual basis. As the company developed, we applied our technology to the networking market, where we provide industry-leading PHY devices and wired and wireless Ethernet-switching solutions, which enable high-speed transmission between communications systems, that are sold by manufacturers of networking and wireless equipment, such as Alcatel, Brocade Communication Systems, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dell Inc., Sony Ericsson, Hewlett Packard Company, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Intel Corporation, Juniper Networks, Inc., and ZTE Corporation. Our wireless technology has a variety of uses in consumer electronic devices, including enabling applications such as wireless access routers, gaming devices, streaming audio, video, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and wireless printing, for products offered by companies such as Cisco Systems, Hewlett Packard Company, Microsoft Corporation and Sony Corporation. We also provide communications and applications processor products for cellular and handheld solutions to customers, such as Research in Motion Limited, Huawei, Motorola, Samsung, Lenovo, Vizio and ZTE Corporation. Lastly, we provide printer SoC and system level solutions for both inkjet and laser jet printer systems for companies such as Hewlett Packard Company. 6 Table of Contents Our current product offerings are primarily in three broad end markets: mobile and wireless, storage and networking. Our net revenue by end market for the last three fiscal years are as follows: Fiscal Years Ended January 28, 2012 January 29, 2011 January 30, 2010 (in millions, except for percentages) Mobile and Wireless $ 969 29 % $ 1,124 31 % $ 532 19 % Storage 1,561 46 % 1,651 46 % 1,574 56 % Networking 698 21 % 683 19 % 597 21 % Other 165 4 % 154 4 % 105 4 % Total $ 3,393 $ 3,612 $ 2,808 Mobile and Wireless Communications Processors Our communications processors are highly integrated cellular SoC devices that enable mobile handset developers to address EDGE, WCDMA (3G), TD-SCDMA (China 3G) and 4G/LTE mobile network standards. They incorporate high-performance multi-band baseband modem processors and applications processors in highly integrated, low-power SoC platforms for voice, computation and multimedia-intensive mobile applications for smartphones. The PXA920 is a highly integrated 3G communications processor solution that targets the TD-SCDMA smartphone market with high multimedia performance and mass market appeal. The PXA978 worldphone platform is a single-chip 3G communications processor that features both the latest UMTS and TD-SCDMA modem technologies. It combines gigahertz class applications processing performance with advanced 3D graphics and 1080p multimedia processing capability. This device is designed to enable smartphones to have access anywhere in the world on multiple networks. The PXA978 is complemented by power management, RF and wireless connectivity components in an all-Marvell platform solution. Modem Processors Our modem processors are highly optimized multi-mode baseband modem devices that enable design of a wide-array of high-performance, low-power Internet-connected devices, including smartphones, tablets, laptops, automotive, set-top-boxes and TVs. Our modem processors incorporate a multiband multimode design, which is capable of addressing evolving 3G and 4G mobile standards. Connectivity Our Avastar family of wireless products include standalone Wi-Fi products, as well as multi-function SoCs, which include Wi-Fi and other communication protocols, including Bluetooth and/or FM, delivered on a single chip. Historically, these devices have been incorporated primarily in mobile handsets, printers and access points. In todays increasingly-connected and mobile lifestyle, the number and variety of products that require wireless communications have expanded significantly and includes digital still cameras, gaming devices, tablets, televisions, Blu-Ray players, DVRs, in-car infotainment and smart appliances. Our products are well positioned for these devices by delivering low power and high performance functionality with the latest technologies, such as Wi-Fi Direct, WPS and Wi-Fi Display. In addition, the Avastar family of products provides a high degree of integration of power management features, RF components and memory. Mobile Computing Products Our Armada 100, 500 and 600 products are SoCs that are designed to deliver advanced integration, leading multimedia performance and superior power consumption savings for mobile computing products, such as 7 Table of Contents tablets, eReaders, scanners, printers and educational devices. During fiscal 2012, we shipped SoCs for use in tablets for the first time. We have also introduced new thin client products designed to operate on Linux-based devices, offering a low power cost and efficient alternative to existing desktop computers. Connected Home Computing Products The Armada 1000 and 1500 products are SoC solutions that are designed to enable the next generation of connected consumer platforms and to enhance the digital lifestyle. These devices are targeted at powering digital TVs, Blu-ray players, set-top boxes and advanced media players by delivering an immersive viewing experience, 3D graphics and enhanced security. In addition, the Armada 1000 and 1500 products are fully-integrated devices that include dual-SATA interfaces, high performance DDR2/3 and NAND memory controllers, USB2.0, HDMI and SDIO. Storage Products We offer a broad range of integrated data storage products across all major technologies, including HDDs, hybrid HDDs (HHDD) and optical disk drives (ODD). In addition, we offer storage system products for complex storage area network solutions. These products provide increased performance and reduced power consumption for enterprise, desktop and mobile storage systems. These integrated SoCs feature ultra-fast read channels, high-performance processors, transceivers, DDR RAM controllers and cryptographic engines. Hard Disk Drive Controllers Hard drive controllers provide high performance input/output (I/O) interface control between the HDD and the host system. We support a variety of host system interfaces, including SATA, SAS and Fiber Channel, which can support the complete range of enterprise, desktop and mobile HDDs. We are the leading HDD controller supplier and currently supply products to all of the major hard drive manufacturers. In addition, we were the first to introduce HDD controllers with advanced 500-gigabyte-per-platter technology for mobile HDDs, a technological advantage which enables a higher level of data storage on a smaller form factor. Solid-State Drive Controllers Our SSD controller SoCs are targeted at the growing market for flash-based storage systems, for the enterprise, consumer and mobile markets. Our SSD controllers leverage significant portions of intellectual property and software developed for the HDD market. Additionally, we incorporate unique intellectual property and development required to ensure stable device operation. We have also leveraged our technology leadership in consumer SSD controllers and have developed a family of SSD controller-based solutions designed for the smartphone end market. Hybrid Hard Disk Drive Controllers A HHDD is an HDD that also contains flash memory, thereby leveraging the low cost of a HDD with the performance of a SSD. Our HHDD controller SoCs include the technology required for HDD operation as well as a high speed interface for the on-drive flash memory. Optical Disk Drive Controllers Our ODD controller SoCs leverage our various storage technologies to support a variety of ODD formats, such as Blu-Ray. Storage-System Products Our storage system products enable customers to manage and aggregate data from arrays of multiple HDDs or from multiple servers. Our portfolio of storage system solutions includes devices which convert data from 8 Table of Contents multiple formats, as well as devices which aggregate and consolidate data into high bandwidth streams. In fiscal 2012, we released DragonFly, a storage accelerator product which enhances performance in virtualization and database applications. Networking Residential, enterprise and service provider networks are experiencing rapid change. To meet these challenges, our Networking business is evolving by investing and adding technologies required for the buildout of new network architectures. We are focusing on cloud infrastructure and service provider infrastructure. Cloud Infrastructure We supply products related to cloud infrastructure, which encompasses home, private and public cloud networks: Home cloud is where personal applications and data reside within the privacy and control of a residential network. Our home cloud products are designed to allow a multitude of smart devices to share content and manage home services. Our home cloud-related product offerings include our Kirkwood and Link Street families. Our Kirkwood family of products is based on our embedded CPU technology, which have been designed to maximize overall performance while minimizing power consumption. Designed for network connected consumer electronics equipment, this family of products is used in home gateways, set-top boxes, network storage, printers, media players and point-of-service terminals. Our Link Street family of 10/100 Fast Ethernet and Gigabit switches are targeted to the small office and home office market, where cost, ease-of-use and flexibility are critical. These devices are targeted at applications, such as standalone switches, media converters, intellectual property phones, firewall appliances, wireless and wired gateway routers, and wireless access points. When integrated with a high performance ARM-based embedded microprocessor, a media access controller and PHY interface, our Link Street family of products provide an integrated single-chip solution for small and medium-size business applications, as well as residential applications. Private cloud represents the next generation of the enterprise network that enables a more mobile workforce, global collaboration, increased bandwidth and enhanced security. Our Private cloud product offerings are within our Prestera, Discovery Innovation and Alaska families. The Prestera DX family of Gigabit Ethernet (GbE) switches offers integration and performance for small and medium-size business networks. These products are designed to enable system vendors to design affordable, plug-and-play, high-density and standalone switches, which address the cost-sensitive desktop switching market. The Prestera EX family of enterprise switches is designed to deliver exceptional price and performance. The Prestera EX family delivers a complete line of Fast Ethernet, GbE and 10GbE switching solutions. Our Discovery Innovation family of products provides a complete SoC solution based on our embedded CPU technology. By leveraging our Discovery system controllers and deep expertise in ARM-based CPUs, the Discovery Innovation SoCs offer high levels of integration. The high-performance, low-power, highly integrated processors are ideally suited to a wide range of applications, ranging from sophisticated routers, switches and wireless base stations to high-volume laser printer applications. Our Alaska family of products includes high-performance and low-power Gigabit transceivers, which address enterprise switching, server and telecom applications. This family of products enables the accelerated deployment of 10GbE capable systems for the local area network (LAN), metropolitan area network (MAN) and wide area network (WAN) markets. Our low-power, low-cost solutions effectively address network connectivity for client systems, such as PCs, gaming systems and digital TVs. Public cloud encompasses low-power commercial data centers, where we are focused on the convergence of networking, computing and storage technologies. Our Public cloud product offerings are within our Prestera, Armada XP and Yukon families. 9 Table of Contents The Prestera CX family of 10GbE and 40GbE switches is designed for the new generation of high density data centers and optical broadband, as well as the convergence of data and storage networks. Using standards-based congestion management capabilities and dynamic power management, these products enable virtualization, cloud computing and software as a service. Our Armada XP family of products is a quad-core processing, enterprise-class cloud computing platform. This platform integrates four Marvell designed ARM-compliant 1.6Hz CPU cores along with a host of I/O peripherals and is optimized to consume low power while simultaneously delivering high performance-per-watt. Our Yukon family of connectivity products includes integrated, single-chip solutions, based on our proven enterprise-class Alaska family of products. These products are offered in an ultra-small form factor, with low-power consumption and are targeted for client and server network interface cards. Service Provider Infrastructure We are leading the deployment of residential fiber access infrastructure and mobile internet infrastructure with Ethernet passive optical network (EPON), Gigabit passive optical network (GPON) and Universal PON technologies, as well as the transition to intellectual property Radio Access Networks, which will allow for the transition to LTE/4G technologies. Our Avanta family provides solutions for next generation broadband, based on EPON and GPON architectures. These products consist of a highly integrated Gateway-on-a-Chip solution, Ethernet and packet processing, voice processing, power management and applications processors. Avanta is meant to meet the needs of next generation Internet and the significant increases in required bandwidth, including high quality video, online gaming and conferencing. During fiscal 2012, we also acquired Xelerated AB (for further details, please see Note 2 Business Combinations in our notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). This acquisition enhances our product portfolio and adds a family of network processors and ultra programmable Ethernet switching solutions designed for carrier ethernet, united fiber access, mobile backhaul and transport platforms. The Xelerated family of products enables customers to quickly scale their services while maintaining low power, low latency and high performance necessary for a reliable mobile internet. The Prestera MX multi-layer switching family of products includes fully-integrated 100 MbE, 1GbE and 10GbE-per-second, fast Ethernet configurable devices. These products are targeted at metropolitan edge and access systems in service provider networks. Our Powerline products for home networking and Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) are designed for performance and robust connectivity. Our Home Networking Powerline solutions are designed into networking equipment deployed by service providers to deliver intellectual property television services and are also available to consumers through the retail channels. We are designing products that support the ITU G.hn standard, ensure high performance over a variety of media. The G.hn standard provides support for powerline, as well as phoneline and coax media. Our G.hn transceiver is designed to enable a superior user experience for performance-intensive applications, such as VoIP, multi-room DVR, video surveillance and gaming. With energy-saving features and easy plug-and-play installation, our G.hn product family also enables easy connectivity for Blu-ray players, IPTV/OTT set-top boxes and Internet-ready TVs in the home. Our Powerline products are also designed to support high performance broadband AMI applications for utility providers by supporting current and future smart grid needs, including real-time network planning and management, outage avoidance and demand management. 10 Table of Contents Other Products Printing Solutions Our printing solutions include integrated SoCs that are custom-designed ASICs for customer printing products, as well as application-specific standard products designed for various product types. Our printing solutions address the inkjet, laser and all-in-one printer markets and offer capabilities which include printing, scanning, copying, user interface, USB, networking, wireless, fax, photo and other applications. Digital Video Processing Products Our digital video format converter products convert PC graphics, standard-definition and high definition video into 1080p high definition outputs, removing signal noise and image artifacts. These products are targeted for Blu-Ray players and recorders, set-top-boxes, A/V receivers, digital television and media clients. Power Management and Green Technology Products Our DSP Switcher regulators are designed to provide efficiency, precision and transient response, all in a small form factor. We also offer analog switching regulators that are low-cost, highly-integrated power management solutions. Our analog switching regulators are available as single or multiple output devices, allowing design flexibility for our customers. These solutions feature low-power consumption, high efficiency and high switching frequency. Our integrated Power Management IC family (PMIC) of products are designed as companion chips for our cellular and applications processor product lines. Our PMIC products are used in cellular handsets and other mobile platforms. The PMIC devices are highly integrated and designed to support all of the peripheral functions on the platform, including power regulation, battery charging, white LED backlight drivers, touch screen control, audio and voice, vibration control and the real time clock. Smart-LED Lighting Our Smart LED Lighting platform enables energy efficient, high-quality LED lights, promoting an eco-friendly and convenient lifestyle. It enables end users to control lighting solutions from their mobile and personal computing devices, whereby they can conveniently manage, analyze and maintain a cost-saving digital lighting solution from anywhere in the world. This platform combines our LED processors and a wireless ZigBee/Wi-Fi gateway with smart lighting software. Smart-Energy/Wi-Fi Microcontroller Our new Smart Energy Platform provides a cost-effective, flexible and easy-to-use solution for building a new generation of connected smart appliances. This platform is driven by a Wi-Fi-enabled microcontroller and integrated software. In addition to smart-appliances, the smart energy platform also targets sensors, lighting controls, measurement tools, toys, personal medical devices and consumer accessories. We have determined that we operate in one reportable business segment: the design, development and sale of integrated circuits. For further information, please see Note 13 Segment and Geographic Information in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers, Sales and Marketing Our direct sales force targets markets that have high intensity data communications processing and high performance storage requirements. We complement and support our direct sales force with manufacturers representatives for our products in North America, Europe and Asia. In addition, we have distributors who support our sales and marketing activities in the United States, Europe and Asia. We also use stocking 11 Table of Contents representatives outside of the United States for some of our products. We expect a significant percentage of our sales will continue to come from direct sales to key customers. As we expand into other end markets, we will evaluate the best sales channel to service that business. We use field application engineers to provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems designs that incorporate our products. We believe that superior field applications engineering support plays a pivotal role in building long-term relationships with customers by improving our customers time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction and encouraging customers to use our next-generation products. Our marketing team works in conjunction with our field sales and application engineering force and is organized around our product applications and end-markets. Due to the complexity of our products, we believe that individual meetings with our marketing, sales and engineering teams provide the most effective and rapid means of communicating the capabilities, benefits and extremely technical specifications of each significant new product. The target customers for our storage products are manufacturers of HDDs and SSDs for the enterprise, desktop and mobile computing markets. The target customers for our switching, transceiver and connectivity products are manufacturers of high-speed networking equipment targeted at LANs, MANs and WANs, in addition to PC-client OEMs. The target customers for our communications controller and embedded processor products are the manufacturers and vendors of wireless communications equipment and handsets for the internet voice communications market. The target customers for our cellular and applications processor products are manufacturers of cellular handsets, tablets, personal navigation devices and a large variety of other handheld, portable consumer applications. Our target customers for our wireless and personal area networking products include manufacturers of Wireless LAN solutions for small-and-medium size businesses, small office/home office and residential gateway solutions as well as manufacturers of a variety of new consumer applications such as cellular handsets, gaming devices, PDAs and home entertainment multimedia client devices. The target customers for our digital video processing products include manufacturers of consumer electronic devices, such as digital televisions, HD-based media players, HD-based set-top-boxes, media clients and audio-visual receivers. The target customers for our power management and green technology products are very diverse and include manufacturers of many different electronic devices. A small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. One customer, Western Digital, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue in fiscal 2012, and two customers represented more than 10% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011 and 2010. Western Digital represented 19%, 21% and 24% of our net revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Research in Motion represented 14% of net revenue in fiscal 2011. Toshiba represented 15% of net revenue in fiscal 2010. Subsequent to our fiscal 2012, Western Digital acquired Hitachis HDD unit. If this acquisition had occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2012, Western Digital would have represented 24% of net revenue in fiscal 2012. During fiscal 2012, Seagate acquired the HDD operations of Samsung. If this acquisition had occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2012, Seagate would have represented 11% of net revenue. Our sales are made under purchase orders typically received between one week and four months prior to the scheduled delivery date. These purchase orders can be cancelled without charge if notice is given within an agreed upon period. Because of the scheduling requirements of our foundries, we generally place firm orders for products with our suppliers up to 16 weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date and typically prior to an order for the product. These lead times typically change based on the current capacity at the foundries. 12 Table of Contents An increasing number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronics products, including gaming devices, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Due to holiday and back to school buying trends, these seasonal demand patterns generally will negatively impact our results in the first and fourth quarter and positively impact our results in the second and third quarter of our fiscal years. Backlog Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products. The quantities actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes in the customers needs. Due to an industry practice that allows customers to cancel or change purchase orders with limited notice prior to the scheduled shipment dates, we believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of future revenue. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is related to inventory pulled by customers from third party logistics providers. As such, this revenue would not be included in the backlog. Research and Development We believe that our future success depends on our ability to introduce improvements to our existing products and to develop new products that deliver cost-effective solutions for both existing and new markets. Our research and development efforts are directed largely to the development of high-performance analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing and embedded microprocessor integrated circuits with the smallest die size and lowest power. We devote a significant portion of our resources to expanding our product portfolio based on a broad intellectual property portfolio with designs that enable high-performance, reliable communications over a variety of physical transmission media. We are also focused on incorporating functions currently provided by stand-alone integrated circuits into our integrated platform solutions to reduce our customers overall system costs. We have assembled a core team of engineers who have extensive experience in the areas of mixed-signal circuit design, digital signal processing, embedded microprocessors, CMOS technology and system-level architectures. We have invested, and expect that we will continue to invest, significant funds for research and development. Our research and development expense was $1,014 million, $898 million and $828 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Manufacturing Integrated Circuit Fabrication The vast majority of our integrated circuits are substantially fabricated using widely available CMOS processes, which provide greater flexibility to engage independent foundries to manufacture integrated circuits at lower costs. By outsourcing manufacturing, we are able to avoid the cost associated with owning and operating our own manufacturing facility. This allows us to focus our efforts on the design and marketing of our products. We currently outsource a substantial percentage of our integrated circuit manufacturing to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, with the remaining manufacturing outsourced to other foundries primarily in Asia. We work closely with our foundry partners to forecast on a monthly basis our manufacturing capacity requirements. Our integrated circuits are currently fabricated in several advanced, sub-micron manufacturing processes. Because finer manufacturing processes lead to enhanced performance, smaller silicon chip size and lower power requirements, we continually evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to smaller geometry process technology in order to reduce cost and improve performance. Assembly and Test We outsource all product packaging and testing requirements for our production products to several assembly and test subcontractors, including STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in Singapore, Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan and China, Global Testing Corporation in Singapore, Siliconware Precision Industries in Taiwan, ASE Electronics in Singapore, Taiwan and Malaysia and Amkor in Korea, Philippines and Taiwan. 13 Table of Contents Quality Assurance We are certified to the International Organization for Standardization Quality Management Systems Standard ISO 9001:2008. We build quality into our products starting with the design and development process. Our designs are subjected to extensive circuit simulation under extreme conditions of temperature, voltage and processing before being committed to manufacture. We pre-qualify each of our subcontractors and conduct regular in-depth quality audits. We closely monitor foundry production to ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. All of our independent foundries and assembly-test subcontractors have been awarded ISO 9001 certification. Environmental Management We monitor the environmental impact of our products. The need for lead-free and halogen-free solutions in electronic components and systems has received increasing attention within the semiconductor industry and many companies are moving towards becoming compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS), the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. We believe that our current products are compliant with the RoHS Directive and the REACH (Regulation, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) SVHC Substances Directive. Intellectual Property Our future revenue growth and overall success depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and customers and seek to control access to and distribution of, our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and technology without authorization, independently develop similar technology or design around our patents. In addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of other companies into our designs and we have certain obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. It is possible, however, that the steps taken by us to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or our customers intellectual property may not be successful. As of January 28, 2012, we have been issued and/or have acquired over 2,500 U.S. patents and over 700 foreign patents and we have more than 3,000 U.S. and foreign pending patent applications on various aspects of our technology, with expiration dates ranging approximately from 2012 to 2032, however, we cannot be certain whether we will be issued patents as a result of these applications. Furthermore, it is possible that our patents may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others. Additionally, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or proprietary information to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely in these countries. We may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have expended and will continue to expend considerable resources in establishing a patent position designed to protect our intellectual property. While our ability to compete is enhanced by our ability to protect our intellectual property, we believe that in view of the rapid pace of technological change, the combination of the technical experience and innovative skills of our employees may be as important to our business as the legal protection of our patents and other proprietary information. From time to time, we may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from third parties in order to further develop and effectively market commercially viable products. We cannot be sure that any necessary licenses will be available or will be available on commercially reasonable terms. 14 Table of Contents The integrated circuit industry is characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often time consuming and expensive litigation. From time to time, we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused the proprietary rights of other parties. Although we defend these claims vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. In addition, we may be sued in the future by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. Any of these claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected. In any of the pending or future claims or actions asserted against us, we may seek to obtain licenses under a third partys intellectual property rights; however, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Competition The markets for our products are intensely competitive, characterized by rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and pricing pressures imposed by high-volume customers. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter our markets. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving markets for our products depends on a number of factors, including the: performance, features, quality and price of our products; timing and success of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; emergence of new industry standards; ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity; and number and nature of our competitors in a given market. By end market our major competitors are as follows; Mobile and Wireless Storage Networking QUALCOMM Incorporated LSI Corporation Broadcom Corporation Broadcom Corporation STMicroelectronics N.V. Freescale Semiconductor Holdings I, Ltd. MediaTek, Inc. Texas Instruments Incorporated LSI Corporation Spreadtrum Communications, Inc. Intel Corporation Intel Corporation Cavium, Inc. NVIDIA Corporation PMC-Sierra, Inc. Texas Instruments Incorporated Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Xilinx, Inc. Altera Corporation QUALCOMM Incorporated In addition, we expect increased competition in the future from other emerging and established companies. Although we believe we will be able to successfully compete with existing and potential competitors, some of 15 Table of Contents these current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our current or future competitors could develop and introduce new products that will be priced lower, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to manufacture products when our ability to do so may be limited. Furthermore, current or potential competitors have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which could harm our business. In addition, many of our current and potential customers have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. Some customers have already developed, or in the future may develop, technologies that could compete directly with our products. We may also face competition from suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies. Historically, average unit selling prices in the integrated circuit industry in general, and for our products in particular, have decreased over the life of a particular product. We expect that the average unit selling prices of our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures. In order to offset expected declines in the average unit selling prices of our products, we will need to continue to reduce the cost of our products. To accomplish this, we intend to continue to implement design changes that lower the cost of manufacturing and assembling and testing our products. We also intend to enter into long-term, strategic arrangements with our foundry partners to secure wafer capacity at reduced prices, by negotiating reduced charges from our foundries. In addition, we plan to work with multiple foundry partners to ensure that our products are qualified and can be manufactured in multiple locations, which will ensure favorable wafer pricing. Lastly, we are designing all new products as well as redesigning some existing products with packaging that uses copper wiring, rather than gold wiring. Due to the rise in the cost of gold over the past year, this transition will lower our overall product cost. Because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities. If we fail to introduce lower cost versions of our products in a timely manner or to successfully manage our manufacturing, assembly and testing relationships, our business could be adversely impacted. Employees As of January 28, 2012, we had a total of 6,970 employees. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows information about our executive officers as of January 28, 2012: Name Age Position(s) Dr. Sehat Sutardja 50 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board Clyde R. Hosein 52 Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Dr. Pantas Sutardja 49 Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Research and Development Officer and Director Dr. Sehat Sutardja , one of our co-founders, has served as the President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chairman of our Board of Directors since 1995, and Chairman of our Board of Directors since 2003. While 16 Table of Contents remaining deeply involved in the daily challenges of running a global growth company, Dr. Sutardja participates heavily in our engineering and marketing efforts across analog, video processor, and microprocessor design while offering input across all of our other product lines. Dr. Sehat Sutardja is widely regarded as one of the pioneers of the modern semiconductor age. His breakthrough designs and guiding vision have revolutionized numerous industry segments, from data storage to the high performance, low power chips now driving the growing global markets for mobile computing and telephony. For his relentless innovation, he has been awarded more than 150 patents and has been named a Fellow of IEEE. In 2006, Dr. Sutardja was recognized as the Inventor of the Year by the Silicon Valley Intellectual Property Law Association. Dr. Sutardja has become an internationally-recognized proponent of new energy efficiency standards for consumer electronics. To that end, he has been working with the governments in both the U.S. and China to establish efficiency performance standards that could produce significant cost and carbon savings. Dr. Sutardja holds a MS and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Sehat Sutardja received a BS in Electrical Engineering from Iowa State University. Dr. Sehat Sutardja is the brother of Dr. Pantas Sutardja. Clyde R. Hosein has served as our Chief Financial Officer since June 2008 and our Corporate Secretary since September 2008. Mr. Hosein served as our Interim Chief Operating Officer from October 2008 to March 2010. From March 2003 until June 2008, Mr. Hosein served as Chief Financial Officer for Integrated Device Technologies, a publicly traded company that develops and delivers mixed signal semiconductor solutions to the communications, computing and consumer end markets. From 2001 until 2003, Mr. Hosein served as Chief Financial Officer of Advanced Interconnect Technologies. From 1997 to 2001, Mr. Hosein was the Chief Financial Officer and senior director of corporate planning of Candescent Technologies Corporation. Previous to Candescent, Mr. Hosein spent over 14 years with IBM Corporation, where he held several engineering and financial positions within their storage, microelectronics, data systems and corporate divisions. Mr. Hosein serves on the board of directors of Cree Inc., a publicly traded company that develops and manufactures LED products. Mr. Hosein holds an MBA from New York University Stern School of Business and a BS in industrial engineering from Polytechnic University in New York. Dr. Pantas Sutardja , one of our co-founders, has served as Vice President and a director since our inception 1995. Dr. Pantas Sutardja was appointed Chief Technology Officer in 2000 and Chief Research and Development Officer in August 2007. Dr. Pantas Sutardja served as our Acting Chief Operating Officer from September 2007 until June 2008. Dr. Pantas Sutardja holds a BS, MS and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Pantas Sutardja is the brother of Dr. Sehat Sutardja. Item 1A. Risk Factors Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our financial condition and results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common shares to decline. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our results of operations are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. 17 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: changes in general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology; cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory; our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or demand for new products requested by our customers; gain or loss of a key customer or design win; seasonality in sales of consumer devices in which our products are incorporated; our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes; increases in assembly costs due to commodity price increases, such as the price of gold; failure to qualify our products or our suppliers manufacturing lines; our ability to exercise stringent quality control measures to obtain high yields; our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel; failure to protect our intellectual property; impact of a significant natural disaster, including earthquakes, floods and tsunamis; and any current and future litigation that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid. In future periods, our stock price could decline if, amongst other factors, our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors. As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies. The HDD industry is intensely competitive, and the technology changes rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our customers are participants in this industry. HDD manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the HDD industry often result in shifts in market share among the industrys participants. If the HDD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. 18 Table of Contents In addition, the HDD industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. For example, during fiscal 2010, Toshiba acquired the HDD operations of Fujitsu. In December 2011, Seagate completed the acquisition of Samsungs HDD unit. Subsequent to our fiscal 2012, Western Digital completed the acquisition of Hitachis HDD unit. Consolidation among our customers could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders, each of which could harm our results of operations. On the other hand, this could lead to increased opportunities for our products within the combined company if we can leverage our technology and customer relationships. Furthermore, future changes in the nature of information storage products could reduce demand for traditional HDDs. For example, products using alternative technologies, such as solid-state flash drives and other storage technologies could become a source of competition to manufacturers of HDDs. Because we offer SSD controllers, leveraging our technology in hard drives, we believe we will maintain significant market share even if demand for traditional HDDs decreases. We operate in the intensely competitive markets, and our failure to compete effectively would harm our results of operations. The semiconductor industry and specifically the mobile and wireless communications markets are extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter the market. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards continue to evolve and become better known, and others realize the market potential of wired and wireless products and services. For example, we expect to see increased competition in the TD-SCDMA smartphone market in China. As competition in the markets in which we operate continues to increase, our revenues and gross margins may decline. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, our current and potential competitors in the mobile and wireless markets have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among these competitors may acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. While we continue to pursue similar strategic relationships, and currently have significant financial and technical resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, which would harm our results of operations. In addition, the semiconductor providers competing for the mobile and wireless communication markets have experienced consolidation recently. In February 2011, Broadcom Corporation acquired NetLogic Microsystems. In addition, in September 2011, Texas Instruments Incorporated acquired National Semiconductor. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities, and market share, which could harm our results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by global economic conditions, which may cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. We operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant demand downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and sometimes accelerated erosion of prices, including as a result of volatile global economic conditions. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our net revenue, gross margin, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, during these downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin. Any downturns in the current environment may be severe and prolonged, and 19 Table of Contents any failure of the markets in which we operate to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is also subject to periodic increases in demand and supply constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our results of operations may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause fluctuations in our stock price. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent global economic recovery in the semiconductor industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from current levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we currently rely on several third party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration: Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third party foundries located in Taiwan. Our other sources for manufacturing are located in the U.S., China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our assembly and testing facilities are located in Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. Because of the geographic concentration of these third party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters or by political changes. For example, the risk of an earthquake in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. Taiwan has experienced significant earthquakes in the past and may be subject to additional earthquakes that could disrupt manufacturing operations. In the event of a significant natural disaster or a quarantine or closure that affects our manufacturers in the Pacific Rim, our revenues, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, if we were unable to quickly identify alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations. No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply: The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. In addition, when demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. For example, in recent years, we experienced some supply shortages due to the difficulties encountered by the foundries in rapidly increasing their production capacities after the recovery from the severe economic down turn from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2012 due to a rapid increase in demand. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we may not have sufficient levels of production capacity with all of our foundries. In addition, foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are 20 Table of Contents larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Moreover, if any of our third party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations. Despite our strategy to move to a dual source, we currently use several independent foundries to manufacture our semiconductor products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it may be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in revenues, net income and cash flow. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as non-refundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, and contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. We are also subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, particularly gold, that are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products. Supplies for such commodities may from time-to-time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect pricing of such commodities. Over the past few years, the price of gold increased significantly and certain of our supply chain partners assessed surcharges to compensate for the resultant increase in manufacturing costs. As a result, our gross margins have been adversely affected by significant increases in the price of gold. We are currently restructuring certain manufacturing processes to use copper instead of gold in our products. In transitioning from gold to copper, because the capacity of either wafer producers or assemblers can be limited from time to time, we may be unable to satisfy the demand of our customers, or may have to accept price increases or other compensation arrangements that increase our operating expenses and erode our gross margins. Our results may also be materially affected adversely if we fail to execute successfully or if we experience resistance from our customer base in the transition from gold to copper. Uncertain Yields and Quality: The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects in our existing or new products could result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. 21 Table of Contents To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to control directly product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. Our sales are concentrated in a few customers, and if we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, or if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, our revenues may decrease substantially. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Net revenue from the three largest customers in each respective fiscal year combined represented 38%, 44% and 44% of our net revenue in fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, natural disasters that may divert a customers operations, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: a significant portion of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with relatively short notice to us; our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products; our customers may develop their own solutions; or our customers may be subject to severe business disruptions. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin; conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Due to their inability to predict demand or other reasons, some of our customers may accumulate excess inventories and, as a consequence, defer purchase of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. The sales cycle for many of our products is long and requires us to invest significant resources with each potential customer without any assurance of sales to that customer. Our sales cycle typically begins with an extended evaluation and test period, also known as qualification, during which our products undergo rigorous reliability 22 Table of Contents testing by our customers. Qualification is typically followed by an extended development period by our customers and an additional three to nine month period before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. This lengthy sales cycle creates the risk that our customers will decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which may create supply chain cross-dependencies. For example, in fiscal 2012, many areas of Thailand sustained massive damage from flooding, which disrupted the global supply chain for HDDs. Due to cross dependencies, any supply chain disruptions could negatively impact the demand for our products in the short term. We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction. In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If we overestimate customer demand, our excess or obsolete inventory may increase significantly, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. In the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, in order to reduce expenses in the challenging economic environment that began during the second half of fiscal 2009, in late fiscal 2009 and early in fiscal 2010, we implemented certain cost reduction measures to reduce operating expenses. Since that time we have hired a significant numbers of employees primarily in the research and development area. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. If customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. Our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. Although we have an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our planning and management processes, we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement and improve a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. These systems can be time consuming and expensive to implement, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. If we are unable to effectively manage 23 Table of Contents our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. In addition, the development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and due to supply chain cross-dependencies and other issues, we may experience delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge that we do not properly anticipate, our products or our customers products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully. Even if new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we and our customers may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them in a timely manner. In addition, our long-standing relationships with some of our larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers certain price concessions, which could cause our average selling prices and gross margins to decline. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. We have experienced, from time to time, hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. We cannot assure you that, despite our testing procedures, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future, which could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, material recall and replacement costs, delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenues, writing down the inventory of defective products, the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, our having to defend against litigation related to defective products or related property damage or personal injury, and damage to our reputation in the industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, we may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field. As a result, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to correct defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in average selling prices of products over time and shifts in our product mix. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. In addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. Therefore, over time, we 24 Table of Contents may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by other cost reductions through efficiencies, introduction of higher margin products and other means. Moreover, because of the wide price differences across the markets we serve, the mix and types of performance capabilities of our products sold may affect the average selling prices of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margins. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or by our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to do so again in the future. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. As a result of our global operations, we face additional risks, which may harm our results of operations, because a majority of our products and our customers products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales to customers located in Asia represented approximately 88% of our net revenue in fiscal 2012, 81% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011 and 89% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010. 25 Table of Contents We also have substantial operations outside of the U.S. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located, and with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities that could affect our operations there. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; compliance with foreign laws, and laws and practices that favor local companies; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; natural disasters; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; transportation delays; difficulties of managing distributors; less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; inadequate local infrastructure; and exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks. The sudden disruption of the supply chain and/or the manufacture of our customers products caused by any of the foregoing risks could impact our results of operations by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. During fiscal 2012, the earthquake and tsunami that affected Japan disrupted the global supply chain for certain components important to our products and the flooding in Thailand affected the supply chain and manufacturing of the products for a number of our customers. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs or our third party manufacturers have significant cost will increase the cost of such operations, which could harm our results of operations. For example, we have large fixed costs in Israel, which will become greater if the U.S. dollar declines in value versus the Israeli shekel. On the other hand, substantially all of our sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions and investments, which could divert managements attention, cause ownership dilution to our shareholders, be difficult to integrate and adversely affect our results of operations and share price. We expect to continue to make acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and technologies, augment our end market coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance or joint venture opportunities in the future, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be successful. 26 Table of Contents Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies typically entails many risks that could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. In addition, any acquisitions could materially harm our results of operations or liquidity as a result of either the issuance of dilutive equity securities, new debt or contingent liabilities, or payment of cash. Moreover, such acquisitions could divert our managements attention from other business concerns and also result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition, we might lose key employees of the newly acquired organizations during the acquisition process. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. We had approximately $2.0 billion of goodwill and $141.5 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet as of January 28, 2012. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an annual assessment of goodwill at the beginning of our fiscal fourth quarter and we also assess the impairment of goodwill on an interim basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. If the businesses acquired fail to meet our expectations set out at the time of the acquisition or if our market capitalization adjusted for control premiums and other factors declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill or intangible impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in other private companies. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. We rely on third party distributors and manufacturers representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or changes in existing taxation rules or practices may have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. For example, the U.S. Congress may consider legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities and have a material impact on our results of operations. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices by regulators may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business or cause our stock price to decline. 27 Table of Contents Tax benefits that we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would harm our results of operations and profitability. In prior years, we have entered into agreements with the local governments in certain foreign jurisdictions where we have significant operations to provide us with favorable tax rates in those jurisdictions if certain criteria are met. We have obtained from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempt Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an undertaking that, in the event Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, or capital asset, gain or appreciation, then the imposition of any such taxes will not apply to us until March 28, 2016. We cannot assure that any future elected Government of Bermuda would not amend the Exempted Undertaking Tax Protection Act 1966 such that tax would be imposed in Bermuda, however, that Act has recently been amended to provide that exempted companies can obtain a further assurance, which extends the tax relief until March 31, 2035. We intend to apply for such extension in fiscal 2013. The Economic Development Board of Singapore (the EDB) granted Pioneer Status to our wholly-owned subsidiary in Singapore in July 1999. This tax exemption was to expire after ten years, but the EDB in June 2006 agreed to extend the term to 15 years. As a result, we anticipate that a significant portion of the income we earn in Singapore during this period will be exempt from the Singapore income tax. We are required to meet several requirements as to investment, headcount and activities in Singapore to retain this status. Under the Israeli Encouragement law of approved or benefited enterprise, two branches of Marvell Israel (MISL), the GTL branch and the cellular branch (formerly Marvell DSPC), are entitled to a beneficial tax program that includes reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income. The first program was approved for MISL in 1995 and the most recent was approved in 2003. Marvell DSPC has five approved programs, with the first approved in 1990 and the most recent benefited enterprise approved in 2010. The benefit period is generally 10 to 15 years and begins in the first year in which our Israeli divisions earn taxable income from the approved or benefited enterprises, provided the maximum period has not elapsed. Income from the approved or benefited enterprises is subject to reduced tax rates ranging between 0% and 10% or tax exemptions for fiscal 2008 through 2020. A new amendment to the Encouragement law, which was approved by the Israeli government in December 2011, came into effect January 1, 2012. MISL and DSPC will not apply the new amendment to the Encouragement law prior to fiscal 2023. During fiscal 2007, our Switzerland subsidiary received a ten-year Federal and Cantonal tax holiday on revenues from research and design and wafer supply trading activities that will expire in 2016. In fiscal 2011, we met the requirements of the initial five year period and we will receive the ongoing tax holiday benefits provided that we continue to meet the ongoing requirements. If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated, our results of our operations and profitability would be harmed. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from our collection of proprietary technologies that we have developed and acquired since our inception. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed that could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenues. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. We have been issued several U.S. and foreign patents and have a number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed 28 Table of Contents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so-called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is often made available under licenses, which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. We may become involved with costly and lengthy litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios. From time to time our subsidiaries and customers receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that allege claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, in recent years, multiple claims have been made against our subsidiaries and our customers related to standards-based technologies such as wireless LAN. In addition, we have had certain patent licenses with third parties that have not been renewed, and if we cannot successfully renew these licenses, our subsidiaries and customers could face claims of infringement. These claims could result in litigation and/or claims for indemnification, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages, attorneys fees and costs. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: stop selling, offering for sale, making, having made or exporting products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us; pay substantial damages and/or license fees and/or royalties to the party claiming infringement that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results; attempt to obtain or renew licenses to the relevant intellectual property, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. We may also be required to indemnify some customers under our contracts if a third party alleges, or a court finds, that our products have infringed upon the proprietary rights of other parties. From time to time, we have agreed to indemnify select customers for claims made against our products, where such claims allege infringement of third party intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patents, registered trademarks and/or copyrights. 29 Table of Contents We have been named as a party to several lawsuits and we may be named in additional litigation in the future, all of which could result in an unfavorable outcome and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price for our securities. We have been named as a party to several lawsuits and we may be named in additional litigation in the future. Please see Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies of our notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of a number of the litigation matters we are currently engaged in. Under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses on behalf of current and former directors and officers for these lawsuits. In addition, due to the high volatility of our stock price, we may be vulnerable to securities class action litigation. In addition, as a result of a prior SEC settlement, we forfeited for three years our ability to invoke the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because we could not benefit from the statutory safe harbor from June 2008 through June 2011, it may be more difficult for us to defend against any future claims based on any forward-looking statements issued during that timeframe. The ultimate outcome of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits may result in significant expenditures and the continued diversion of our managements time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our business. In the event we were to receive an unfavorable outcome in any lawsuit, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on key personnel to manage our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel could delay the development and introduction of and harm our ability to sell our products. We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense. Our key technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure