Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Manufacturing Integrated Circuit Fabrication The vast majority of our integrated circuits are fabricated using widely available CMOS processes, which provide greater flexibility to engage independent foundries to manufacture integrated circuits at lower costs. By outsourcing manufacturing, we are able to avoid the cost associated with owning and operating our own manufacturing facility. This allows us to focus our efforts on the design and marketing of our products. We work closely with our foundry partners to forecast on a monthly basis our manufacturing capacity requirements. We closely monitor foundry production to ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. Our integrated circuits are currently fabricated in several advanced manufacturing processes. Because finer manufacturing processes lead to enhanced performance, smaller silicon chip size and lower power requirements, we continually evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to smaller geometry process technology in order to reduce cost and improve performance. Assembly and Test We outsource all product packaging and testing requirements for our products in production to several assembly and test subcontractors primarily located in China, Korea, Singapore, Canada and Taiwan. Governmental Regulations Import/Export, National Security and Other Regulations Related to International Operations and Ownership We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, which may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: intellectual property ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; conflict minerals; data privacy requirements; competition; advertising; employment; product regulations; environment, health and safety requirements; and consumer laws. For example, government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. In connection with some of our acquisitions, we have been subject to regulatory conditions imposed by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) where we have agreed to implement certain cyber security, physical security and training measures and supply agreements to protect national security. A portion of the business we acquired in the Avera acquisition requires facility security clearances under the National Industrial Security Program. The National Industrial Security Program requires that a corporation maintaining a facility security clearance be effectively insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence (FOCI). Because we are organized in Bermuda, we have entered into agreements with the U.S. Department of Defense with respect to FOCI mitigation arrangements that relate to our operation of the portion of the Avera business involving facility clearances. Primarily as a result of our acquisition of Avera, we are now a party to certain contracts with the U.S. government and its subcontractors. Our contracts with government entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on regulatory matters. Environmental Management We are also subject to environmental rules and regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the EU Directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE Directive),Chinas regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, and California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986. We believe that our products comply with the current Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, and the Regulation, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals SVHC Substances Directive. In addition, each of our manufacturing subcontractors certifies to us compliance with ISO 14001:2004, the international standard related to environmental management. We are also working to establish a conflict-free supply chain, including ethical sourcing of certain minerals for our products. 6 Intellectual Property Our future revenue growth and overall success depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements and licenses to protect our intellectual property. As of January 30, 2021, we have approximately 9,400 active U.S. and foreign patents issued and approximately 1,100 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending on various aspects of our technology. While we believe the duration of our patents generally covers the expected lives of our products, our patents may not collectively or individually cover every feature on innovation in our product. In addition, our efforts may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from misappropriation or infringement. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the risks associated with our intellectual property. We have expended and will continue to expend considerable resources in establishing a patent position designed to protect our intellectual property. While our ability to compete is enhanced by our ability to protect our intellectual property, we believe that in view of the rapid pace of technological change, the combination of the technical experience and innovative skills of our employees may be as important to our business as the legal protection of our patents and other proprietary information. From time to time, we may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from third parties in order to further develop and effectively market commercially viable products or in connection with a pending or future claim or action asserted against us. We cannot be sure that any necessary licenses will be available or will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The integrated circuit industry is characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often time consuming and expensive litigation. From time to time, we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused the proprietary rights of other parties. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future be sued by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused other intellectual property rights, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents, trademarks, or other rights. Although we defend these claims vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the risks associated with patent litigation matters. Competition The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and pricing pressures. Competition has intensified as a result of the increasing demand for higher levels of performance, integration and smaller process geometries. We expect competition to further intensify as current competitors strengthen the depth and breadth of their product offerings, either through in-house development or by acquiring existing technology. In addition, some of our customers have chosen to develop certain semiconductor products internally and this trend may continue to proliferate. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving markets for our products depends on multiple factors, including, but not limited to: the performance, features, quality and price of our products; the development execution, timing and success of enhanced and new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; the emergence, rate of adoption and acceptance of new industry standards; market demand trends; competitive tactics; our ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity with the appropriate technological capability; and the number and nature of our competitors in a given market. Our major competitors for our products include Broadcom Limited, Intel Corporation, Microchip Technology Inc., NXP Semiconductors N.V., Phison Electronics Corporation, Realtek Semiconductor Corporation, Silicon Motion Technology Corporation and Socionext Inc. We expect increased competition in the future from both emerging and established companies, as well as from alliances among competitors, customers or other third parties, any of which could acquire significant market share. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of competitive risks associated with our business. 7 Historically, average unit selling prices in the integrated circuit industry in general, and for our products in particular, have decreased over the life of a particular product. We expect that the average unit selling prices of our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures. In order to offset expected declines in the selling prices of our products, we will need to continue to introduce innovative new products and reduce the cost of our products. To accomplish this, we intend to continue to implement design changes that lower the cost of manufacturing, assembly and testing of our products. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of pricing risks. Human Capital Marvells human capital objectives are to attract, retain and develop high quality talent with the technical and other skills necessary to execute on our business objectives. To support these objectives, Marvells human resources programs, which include talent acquisition, total rewards, and learning and development, are designed to train and facilitate internal talent mobility to create a high-performing, diverse workforce. Our programs are designed to reward and support employees through competitive pay and benefits as well as enhance the Companys culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more engaging and inclusive and develop talent to prepare them for critical roles and leadership positions for the future. Our Board of Directors and Board committees provide oversight on certain human capital matters. The Audit Committee provides oversight of business risks and the Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, both of which have relevance for human capital. The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board has oversight for Marvells Environment, Society and Governance (ESG) strategy, which includes talent attraction and retention and inclusion and diversity. The Executive Compensation Committee provides oversight of the Companys overall compensation philosophy, policies and programs, and assesses whether the Companys compensation establishes appropriate incentives for executive officers and employees. The Company employed 5,340 people as of January 30, 2021. As of January 30, 2021, our global workforce was comprised of approximately: 99% full time employees and 1% part time employees. Our employees sit across three geographical regions: 50% of employees are based in North America, 38% are in APAC (which includes India) and 12% are in EMEA. We continually monitor employee turnover, as given the nature of our business, our success depends upon highly trained personnel with the technical skills necessary to execute on our business objectives. We believe the combination of competitive compensation and career growth and development opportunities help to increase employee tenure and reduce voluntary turnover. Intern and entry level professional new hires are an important part of our overall talent pipeline and strategy, as students and entry level professionals often have knowledge in the latest research and innovations, and we want Marvell to benefit from that knowledge. Competitive Compensation and Benefits We provide employee wages that we believe are competitive and consistent with employee positions, skill levels, experience, knowledge, and geographic location. We evaluate the effectiveness of our executive compensation and benefit programs and compare those programs against those of our peers within the industry. We align our executives long-term equity compensation with our shareholders interests by linking realizable pay with performance. Marvell provides comprehensive and affordable health and wellness coverage to all our employees. Culture, Engagement and Development Marvell is a dynamic, interactive, high-energy workplace, where people are self-motivated and encouraged to make a difference. We have defined four core behaviors to help guide our actions and interactions with people both inside and outside the company: Act with integrity and treat everyone with respect, Innovate to solve customer needs, Execute with thoroughness and rigor, and Help others achieve their objectives. 8 Our focus is on creating an environment where people feel respected, valued and engaged. Employee feedback is one way for us to know how we are doing and where we can do better. We regularly conduct Voice of the Employee and other surveys. This is a valuable opportunity for all employees to provide open, candid, confidential feedback about what it's like to work at Marvell. We offer a variety of employee training programs, including management training programs aligned with the level of managers, technical training, mandatory compliance trainings and voluntary professional development opportunities. In addition, we organize a wide range of employee events designed to foster a sense of community at Marvell. The COVID-19 pandemic has presented challenges for all individuals and businesses. Our leadership has continued to engage and support employees through the pandemic in a range of ways, including sending frequent communication and resources, providing a number of four day recharge weekends, and surveying employees on the experience of working from home. See the Health & Safety section below for more details. Inclusion & Diversity At Marvell, we value the uniqueness that an inclusive and diverse global team brings to our company, and we are focused on creating an environment that leverages the perspectives and contributions of each employee. As one part of our ongoing efforts to strengthen our inclusion and diversity, we began to release regular updates to our diversity data to enable our investors, partners and employees to track our progress. Health & Safety Marvell is committed to protecting the health and safety of all individuals, including employees, contractors and vendors, affected by our activities. In this regard, we continuously seek to reduce workplace hazards and risks. The COVID-19 pandemic placed new emphasis on health and safety at Marvell, and we took various steps to promote the health, safety and wellness of our employees during the ongoing crisis. 9 Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. SUMMARY OF FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR FUTURE RESULTS The following summarizes the principal factors that make an investment in the Company speculative or risky. This summary should be read in conjunction with the remainder of this Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or growth prospects or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report and those we may make from time to time. You should consider all of the risk factors described in our public filings when evaluating our business . risks related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or other future pandemics, on the global economy and on our customers, suppliers, employees and business; risks related to our ability to complete our planned merger with Inphi Corporation on a timely basis, or at all, and limitations and restrictions contained in the Merger Agreement; risks related to the extension of lead time due to supply chain disruptions, component shortages that impact the production of our products, and constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; risks related to our ability to realize anticipated synergies in connection with the Inphi merger and other strategic transactions; risks related to changes in general economic conditions, such as the impact of Brexit on the economy in the E.U., political conditions, such as the recent tariffs and trade restrictions with China and other foreign nations, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; risks related to the ability of our customers, particularly in jurisdictions such as China that may be subject to trade restrictions (including the need to obtain export licenses) to develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties; risks related to cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory; risks related to the effects of any future acquisitions, divestitures or significant investments; risks related to the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor and infrastructure industries; risks related to our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue; risks related to our ability to execute on changes in strategy and realize the expected benefits from restructuring activities; risks related to our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products; risks related to our ability to realize anticipated synergies in connection with our acquisitions and our loss of synergies in connection with our divestitures; risks related to any current and future litigation and regulatory investigations that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business; risks related to gain or loss of a design win or key customer; risks related to seasonality or volatility related to sales into the infrastructure market; 10 risks related to failures to qualify our products or our suppliers manufacturing lines; risks related to our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology; risks related to failures to protect our intellectual property, particularly outside the U.S.; risks related to the potential impact of a significant natural disaster, including earthquakes, fires, floods and tsunamis, particularly in certain regions in which we operate or own buildings, such as Santa Clara, California, and where our third party suppliers operate, such as Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim; risks related to our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel; risks related to our debt obligations; risks related to severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers; and risks related to failures of our customers to agree to pay for NRE (non-recurring engineering) costs or failure to pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our results of operations are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid. In future periods, our stock price could decline if, amongst other factors, our revenue or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of securities analysts and investors. Our stock is traded on the Nasdaq stock exchange under the ticker symbol MRVL. As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) PANDEMIC We face risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic which currently has, and may continue in the future to, significantly disrupt and adversely impact our manufacturing, research and development, operations, sales and financial results. Our business has been, and will continue to be, adversely impacted by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to global macroeconomic effects, the COVID-19 pandemic and related adverse public health measures have caused disruption to our global operations and sales. Our third-party manufacturers, suppliers, third-party distributors, sub-contractors and customers have been, and are expected to continue to be, disrupted by worker absenteeism, quarantines and restrictions on their employees ability to work; office and factory closures; disruptions to ports and other shipping infrastructure; border closures; and other travel or health-related restrictions. Depending on the magnitude of such effects on our manufacturing, assembling, and testing activities or the operations of our suppliers, third-party distributors, or sub-contractors, our supply chain, manufacturing and product shipments will be delayed, which could adversely affect our business, operations and customer relationships. In addition to operational and customer impacts, the COVID-19 pandemic has had, and is expected to continue to have, a significant impact on the economies and financial markets of many countries including an economic downturn, which has affected and may in the future affect demand for our products and impact our operating results in both the near and long term. There can be no assurance that any decreases in sales resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic will be offset by increased sales in subsequent periods. 11 We have experienced and expect to continue to experience disruptions to our business operations resulting from work from home, quarantines, self-isolations, or other movement and restrictions on the ability of our employees to perform their jobs, innovate, work together in teams and collaborate and such disruptions could impact our ability to develop and design our products in a timely manner or meet required milestones or customer commitments. See the Risk Factor entitled If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. These disruptions may also impact our ability to win in time sensitive competitive bidding selection processes. See the Risk Factor entitled We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results. In addition, work from home, quarantines, self-isolations, home schooling, continuing macroeconomic related uncertainty or caring for family members may result in heavy psychological, emotional or financial burdens for some of our employees, which may impact their productivity and morale and may lead to higher employee absences and higher attrition rates. See the Risk Factor entitled We depend on highly skilled personnel to support our business operations. If we are unable to retain and motivate our current personnel or attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed . Our share repurchase program was temporarily suspended in late March 2020 to preserve cash during the COVID-19 pandemic and remains temporarily suspended in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Inphi. See the Risk Factor entitled There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or effect share repurchases in any particular amount or at all, and statutory requirements under Bermuda Law may require us to defer payment of declared dividends or suspend share repurchases. We may become subject to claims or lawsuits by employees, customers, suppliers or other parties regarding actions we take in our operations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our efforts to manage these impacts may be unsuccessful, and the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic also depends on factors beyond our knowledge or control, including the duration, severity and geographic scope of the COVID-19 pandemic, the availability, widespread distribution and use of safe and effective vaccines and the actions taken to contain its spread and mitigate its public health and economic effects. Due to the uncertainty regarding the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures and macroeconomic impacts, at this time we are unable to predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic will be exacerbated the longer the pandemic continues. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic can also exacerbate other risks discussed below in this Item 1A "Risk Factors" section. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR PROPOSED MERGER WITH INPHI Our proposed acquisition of Inphi involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risks associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees . On October 29, 2020, Marvell entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the Merger Agreement), by and among Marvell, Marvell Technology, Inc. (f/k/a Maui HoldCo, Inc.), a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Marvell (HoldCo), Maui Acquisition Company Ltd, a Bermuda exempted company and a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo (Bermuda Merger Sub), Indigo Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo (Delaware Merger Sub), and Inphi Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Inphi). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement: (i) Bermuda Merger Sub will be merged with and into Marvell (the Bermuda Merger), with Marvell continuing as a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo; and (ii) Delaware Merger Sub will be merged with and into Inphi (the Delaware Merger and, together with the Bermuda Merger, the Mergers), with Inphi continuing as a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo. As a result of the transaction, the parent company will be domiciled in the United States upon closing of the transaction. 12 Our and Inphis obligations to consummate the proposed Mergers are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among others: (i) approval by Marvells shareholders of the Merger Agreement and the Bermuda Merger; (ii) adoption by Inphis stockholders of the Merger Agreement; and (iii) the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. In addition to these requirements, the Merger is subject to potential delays or disruptions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, litigation, and the ability of HoldCo and Marvell to obtain necessary financing. The regulatory approvals required in connection with the proposed transaction may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions. If any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed Mergers are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed Mergers or reducing the anticipated benefits of the transaction to HoldCo. If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed Mergers, HoldCos business and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed Mergers will reduce HoldCos liquidity, and may limit HoldCos flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. If the proposed Mergers are not completed by June 30, 2021 (or March 1, 2022, if extended by either party in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement) under certain circumstances, including in the event receipt of certain required regulatory approvals has not been obtained, either Marvell or Inphi may choose to terminate the Merger Agreement. Marvell or Inphi may also elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances, or they may mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time prior to the effective time of the Delaware Merger, before or after obtaining shareholder approval, as applicable. If the proposed Mergers are not completed, our stock price could fall to the extent that our current price reflects an assumption that we will complete it. Furthermore, if the proposed Mergers are not completed and the Merger Agreement is terminated, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of the proposed Mergers, and we may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including, among others: we could be required to pay a termination fee of up to $460 million; we will have incurred and may continue to incur costs relating to the proposed Mergers, many of which are payable by us whether or not the proposed Mergers are completed; matters related to the proposed Mergers (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management team and numerous others throughout our organization, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities; we may be subject to legal proceedings related to the proposed Mergers or the failure to complete the proposed Mergers; the failure to complete the proposed Mergers may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community; and any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the proposed Mergers, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, suppliers, partners or employees, may continue to intensify in the event the proposed Mergers are not consummated. The benefits we expect HoldCo to realize from the proposed Mergers will depend, in part, on HoldCos ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently. Furthermore, uncertainties about the proposed Mergers may cause our and/or Inphis current and prospective employees to experience uncertainty about their futures. These uncertainties may impair our and/or Inphis ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. Similarly, our and/or Inphis existing or prospective customers, licensees, suppliers and/or partners may delay, defer or cease purchasing products or services from or providing products or services to us or Inphi; delay or defer other decisions concerning us or Inphi; or otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us or Inphi. Any of the above could harm us and/or Inphi, and thus decrease the benefits we expect HoldCo to receive from the proposed Mergers. 13 The proposed Mergers may also result in significant charges or other liabilities, including taxes, that could adversely affect HoldCos results of operations, such as cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with the acquisition and/or integration of the business and operations of Marvell and Inphi. The amount and timing of these possible charges are not yet known. Further, HoldCos failure to identify or accurately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities HoldCo is assuming in the proposed transaction could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on HoldCos business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Until the completion of the Mergers or the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, Marvell and Inphi are each prohibited from entering into certain transactions and taking certain actions that might otherwise be beneficial to Marvell or Inphi and their respective shareholders . Until the proposed Mergers are completed or the Merger Agreement is terminated, the Merger Agreement restricts Marvell and Inphi from taking specified actions without the consent of the other party, and requires Marvell and Inphi to conduct their respective business and operations in the ordinary course in all material respects and substantially in accordance with pa st practices. These restrictions may prevent Marvell and Inphi from making appropriate changes to their respective businesses or pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the proposed Mergers . The Merger Agreement limits each of Marvells and Inphis ability to pursue alternative transactions, and in certain instances requires payment of a termination fee, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that, subject to certain exceptions, limit each of Marvells and Inphis ability to solicit, initiate, encourage or facilitate, or enter into discussions or negotiations with respect to, any inquiries regarding or the making of any proposal or offer that constitutes or could reasonably be expected to lead to an alternative transaction. In addition, under certain specified circumstances, Inphi is required to pay a termination fee of $300 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated and, under certain specified circumstances, Marvell is required to pay a termination fee of $400 (or in some cases $460) million if the Merger Agreement is terminated. It is possible that these or other provisions might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Marvell or Inphi from considering or proposing an acquisition or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire Marvell or Inphi than it might otherwise have proposed to pay. Any delay in completing the Mergers may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the Mergers. In addition to the required regulatory clearances and approvals, the Mergers are subject to a number of other conditions that are beyond the control of Marvell and Inphi. The failure to satisfy these and other conditions may prevent, delay or otherwise materially and adversely affect completion of the Mergers. Marvell and Inphi cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Further, the requirements for obtaining the required regulatory clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the Mergers for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the Mergers may significantly reduce the synergies projected to result from the Mergers and other benefits that Marvell and Inphi expect to achieve if they complete the Mergers within the expected timeframe and integrate their respective businesses. There can be no assurance that Marvell will be able to secure the funds necessary to pay the cash portion of the Merger consideration and refinance certain existing indebtedness on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. HoldCo intends to fund the cash portion of the Merger consideration to be paid to holders of Inphi common stock with new debt. To this end, Marvell and HoldCo have entered into a bridge commitment letter containing commitments for a $2.5 billion senior 364-day bridge loan and a term loan credit agreement containing commitments for $1.75 billion senior unsecured term loan facilities (consisting of a $875 million 3-year term loan facility and a $875 million 5-year term loan facility). There can be no assurance that Marvell or HoldCo will be able to obtain the debt financing pursuant to the bridge commitment letter or the term loan credit agreement, as applicable. In the event that the debt financing contemplated by the bridge commitment letter or the term loan credit agreement, as applicable, is not available, other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. If Marvell or HoldCo is unable to obtain debt financing, the proposed Mergers may be delayed or not be completed. 14 Litigation filed against Marvell and Inphi could prevent or delay the completion of the Mergers or result in the payment of damages following completion of the Mergers. Marvell, Inphi, and the boards of directors of both companies currently are and may in the future be parties, among others, to various litigations related to the Merger Agreement and the Merger, including putative shareholder class actions. Five lawsuits have been filed against Inphi and the Inphi Board in federal court: Wang v. Inphi Corp., et. al. (filed December 24, 2020, Northern District of California); Cohen v. Inphi Corp., et al. (filed January 5, 2021, Southern District of New York); Jones v. Inphi Corp., et al. (filed January 8, 2021, Eastern District of New York); Rosenfeld v. Inphi Corp., et al. (filed January 20, 2021, Northern District of California); and Kearny v. Inphi Corp., et al. (filed January 29, 2021, Northern District of California). Two additional federal complaints have been filed against Inphi, its board of directors, and certain Marvell entities involved in the Merger: MacIntosh v. Inphi Corp., et al. (filed December 30, 2020, Southern District of New York) and Poe v. Inphi Corp., et al. (filed January 16, 2021, District of Delaware). Three lawsuits have been filed against only Marvell and its board of directors in federal court: Raul v. Marvell Tech. Group Ltd., et al. (filed January 8, 2021, Southern District of New York); Cardone v. Marvell Tech. Group Ltd., et al. (filed January 11, 2021, Eastern District of New York); and Schumacher v. Marvell Tech. Group, Ltd., et al. (filed January 16, 2021, District of Delaware). All ten lawsuits assert claims for violation of Section 14(a) of and Rule 14a-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act based on allegations that the registration statement on Form S-4 filed by Marvell with the SEC on December 22, 2020 omits material information. The complaints also assert control person claims under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act against the Marvell and Inphi boards of directors. One of the complaints that names only Inphi and its board of directors asserts an additional claim for breach of fiduciary duty. As set forth in the Merger Agreement, no settlement of litigation related to the Merger may be agreed to by Inphi without the prior written consent of Marvell. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs in such matters are seeking to enjoin the Merger. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and could delay or prevent the Merger from becoming effective in a timely manner. Moreover, the pending litigation and any future additional litigation could be time consuming and expensive, could divert Marvells and Inphis managements attention away from their regular businesses, and, if any one of these lawsuits is adversely resolved against either Marvell or Inphi, could have a material adverse effect on Marvells or Inphis respective financial condition or the condition of the combined company. If a settlement or other resolution is not reached in the potential lawsuits referenced above and the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting Marvells or Inphis ability to complete the Merger on the terms contemplated by the Merger Agreement, or there is a pending or overtly threatened legal proceeding brought by a governmental party as described above, then the Merger may not become effective in a timely manner or at all. Failure to successfully integrate the businesses of Marvell and Inphi in the expected time frame may adversely affect HoldCos future results. Marvell and Inphi entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the Mergers will result in various benefits, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of Marvell and Inphi must be successfully integrated. Historically, Marvell and Inphi have been independent companies, and they will continue to be operated as such until the completion of the Mergers. The integration may be complex and time consuming and may require substantial resources and effort. The management of HoldCo may face significant challenges in consolidating the operations of Marvell and Inphi, integrating the technologies, procedures, and policies, as well as addressing the different corporate cultures of the two companies and retaining key personnel. If the companies are not successfully integrated, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. 15 The Change in Jurisdiction Resulting from the Mergers may impact the Rights of our Shareholders Currently, the rights of Marvell shareholders arise under Bermuda law, the Marvell Memorandum of Association and the Marvell Bye-Laws. Upon completion of the Mergers, Marvell will become a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo, a Delaware corporation, and former Marvell shareholders will become HoldCo shareholders. The rights of former Marvell shareholders who become HoldCo shareholders will be governed by the HoldCo Charter and the HoldCo Bylaws, as well as U.S. federal law and Delaware law. As a result, some of the rights of HoldCo shareholders could differ from the rights Marvell shareholders currently possess. For example, the HoldCo Charter provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any complaint asserting any internal corporate claims, including claims in the right of HoldCo that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director, officer, employee or stockholder in such capacity, or as to which Delaware law confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Chancery. The federal district courts of the United States, to the fullest extent permitted by law, will be the exclusive forum for any complaint asserting a cause of action under the Securities Act. The exclusive forum provision does not apply to actions arising under the Exchange Act. Since Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, a state court may permit a defendant to pursue an action arising under the Securities Act in state court. While the Delaware Supreme Court has recently upheld provisions of the certificates of incorporation of other Delaware corporations that are similar to the exclusive forum provision in the HoldCo Charter, a court of a state other than the State of Delaware could decide that such provisions are not enforceable under the laws of that state. The provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with HoldCo or its directors, officers, employees or stockholders, which may discourage such lawsuits against HoldCo and its directors, officers, employees or stockholders. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in the HoldCo Charter to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, HoldCo may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, while class actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law, such actions are generally available under Delaware law. Thus, HoldCo may be subject to more shareholder litigation than Marvell and costly litigation could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of HoldCo. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS Recent, current and potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures may subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business. Our long-term strategy has included in the past, as discussed below, and may continue to include in the future identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business or may terminate such activities. For example: On September 19, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Aquantia Corp. (Aquantia); On November 5, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Avera Semiconductor, the Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) business of GlobalFoundries (Avera); On December 6, 2019, we sold NXP USA, Inc. certain assets related to our Wi-Fi Connectivity business; and On October 29, 2020, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Inphi. Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly underperform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect on a timely basis or at all. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner or at all. These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. 16 If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, these transactions, or parts of these transactions, may fail to be completed due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; disputes or litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. If we fail to complete a transaction, we may nonetheless have incurred significant expenses in connection with such transaction. Failure to complete a pending transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, divestiture, merger or joint venture could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Recent or potential future acquisitions involve a number of risks, including, among others, those associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and other financial risks and integration risks. We used a significant portion of our cash and incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of our acquisition of Cavium, which was completed in fiscal year 2019. In fiscal year 2020, we used cash and indebtedness to finance our acquisition of Aquantia and indebtedness to finance our acquisition of Avera. As of December 11, 2019, we repaid the entire amount of the indebtedness related to the Aquantia and Avera acquisitions. In addition, Marvell and HoldCo intend to fund the cash portion of the Merger consideration and other fees and expenses required to be paid in connection with the Mergers with new debt. Our use of cash to fund our current and future acquisitions has reduced our liquidity and may (i) limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and (ii) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. Furthermore, the Merger financing agreements contain negative covenants, limitations on indebtedness, liens, sale and leaseback transactions and mergers and other fundamental changes. Marvells ability to comply with these negative covenants can be affected by events beyond our control. Our indebtedness and these negative covenants will also have the effect, among other things, of limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting our flexibility in the conduct of our business and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions. In addition, a breach of the negative covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. WE OPERATE GLOBALLY AND ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT RISKS IN MANY JURISDICTIONS Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the U.S. government in connection with trade with China and Chinese customers have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business. Regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, and the imposition of tariffs and export regulations, have in the past and may continue to materially limit our ability to make sales to our significant customers in China, which has in the past and may continue to harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition. For example, the recent U.S. government export restrictions on a number of Chinese customers, such as Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and others have dampened demand for our products, adding to the already challenging macroeconomic environment. An increasing number of Marvell products require licenses for export to Huawei and other companies on the Entity List; there can be no assurances that such licenses will be approved by the U.S. Government. Moreover, concerns that U.S. companies may not be reliable suppliers as a result of these and other actions has caused, and may in the future cause, some of our customers in China to amass large inventories of our products well in advance of need or caused some of our customers to replace our products in favor of products from other suppliers. As a result, the Chinese government has adopted a new law with respect to unreliable suppliers. Being designated as an unreliable supplier would have an adverse impact on our business and operations. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business that we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customers' products which use our solutions, such as hard disk drives, may also be impacted by export restrictions. Customers in China may also choose to develop indigenous solutions, as replacements for products that are subject to U.S. export controls. Several important new restrictions became effective in December 2020 and January 2021, which may further impact our business. If export restrictions related to Chinese customers are sustained for a long period of time, or if other export restrictions were to be imposed, including restrictions on trade with other countries, it will have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. 17 We typically sell products to customers in China pursuant to purchase orders rather than long term purchase commitments. Customers in China can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a penalty and, therefore, they may be more likely to do so while the tariffs and trade restrictions are in effect. See also, risk Factor entitled We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships . In addition, customers in China that may be subject to trade restrictions or tariffs, may develop their own products or solutions instead of purchasing from us or they may acquire products or solutions from our competitors or other third-party sources that are not subject to the U.S. tariffs and trade restrictions. Changes to U.S. or foreign tax, trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in U.S. or foreign international tax, social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our business. The prior U.S. presidential administration instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that included the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we conduct our business. Any new tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain U.S. goods. The prior U.S. presidential administration also focused on policy reforms that discouraged corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the U.S., which required us to change the way we conduct business. The new U.S. presidential administrations policies are not fully understood but seem likely to include some changes to the status quo, which may cause damage to our business. Political changes and trends such as populism, protectionism, economic nationalism and sentiment toward multinational companies and resulting changes to trade, tax or other laws and policies may be disruptive to our businesses. These changes in U.S. and foreign laws and policies have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also, Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the U.S. government in connection with trade with China have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business and "Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results . We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. Most of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan. In addition, our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. As a result, disruptions affecting the operations of our suppliers in Taiwan, whether political, military or natural disasters will adversely impact our business. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 80% and 82% of our net revenue in fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, respectively. We also have substantial operations outside of the United States. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: the rise or spread of global pandemics or actual or threatened public health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations, employees, customers and suppliers; political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; volatile global economic conditions, including downturns in which some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin; 18 compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, including pending changes thereto, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; local laws and practices that favor local companies, including business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; natural disasters, including earthquakes, fires, tsunamis and floods; trade restrictions, higher tariffs, worsening trade relationship between the United States and China, or changes in cross border taxation, particularly in light of the tariffs imposed by the prior U.S. presidential administration; transportation delays; difficulties of managing distributors; less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; inadequate local infrastructure; and exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks. As a result of having global operations, the sudden disruption of the supply chain and/or disruption of the manufacture of our customers products caused by events outside of our control could impact our results of operations by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs, or where our third-party manufacturers have significant costs, will increase the cost of such operations which could harm our results of operations. WE ARE VULNERABLE TO PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURING-RELATED RISKS We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested or to be able to fulfill our orders could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we currently rely on several third-party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third-party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan, and other sources are located in China, Germany, South Korea, Singapore and the United States. In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly and testing facilities are located in China, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan. Because of the geographic concentration of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters including, for example, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, or by pandemics or other actual or threatened public health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or by political, social or economic instability. In the case of such an event, our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming. As a result, if we needed to implement alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations. 19 No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. When demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained or not available, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. Our foundries and outsourced assembly and test suppliers may reallocate capacity to their customers offering them a better margin or rate of return than provided by the Company. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. In particular, as we and others in our industry transition to smaller geometries, our manufacturing partners may be supply constrained or may charge premiums for these advanced technologies, which may harm our business or results of operations. See also, We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers, outsourced assembly and test suppliers, or other suppliers are unable to secure the necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations. For example, in response to growth in demand from customers for our products, our operations team is continuing to ramp production with our global supply chain partners. However, we have in the past, and may in the future, experience a number of industry-wide supply constraints affecting the type of high complexity products we provide for data infrastructure. These supply challenges have in the past, and may in the future, limit our ability to fully satisfy the increase in demand for some of our networking products. While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it would be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with our foundries, outsourced assembly and test suppliers, or other suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to such parties in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. Recent supply shortages in the semiconductor industry of multi-layer complex substrates, IC packaging capacity and fab constraints have resulted in increased lead times, inability to meet demand, and increased costs during 2020, and these supply constraints are currently expected to continue throughout 2021. 20 Uncertain Yields and Quality The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our technology is transitioning from planar to FINFET transistors. This transition may result in longer qualification cycles and lower yields. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and lower manufacturing yields, which are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. In addition, we may face lower manufacturing yields and reduced quality in the process of ramping up and diversifying our manufacturing partners. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages in connection with product liability claims, which would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects could result in significant costs. See also, Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance, which could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments or increase costs. Commodity Prices We are also subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, including gold and copper, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products. Supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect pricing of such commodities. We may experience increased actual and opportunity costs as a result of our transition to smaller geometry process technologies. In order to remain competitive, we have transitioned, and expect to continue to transition, our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. We also evaluate the costs of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies including both actual costs such as increased mask costs and wafer costs and increased costs related to EDA tools and the opportunity costs related to the technologies we choose to forego. These transitions are imperative for us to be competitive with the rest of the industry and to target some of our product development in high growth areas to these advanced nodes, which has resulted in significant initial design and development costs. We have been, and may continue to be, dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage any future transitions. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in a future transition or fail to efficiently implement a transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. 21 We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results. One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop products for use in our customers products. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy. If a customers system designer initially chooses a competitors product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customers product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers and potential customers specifications. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that our customers system designers will select our product for use in their applications. We often are required to anticipate which product designs will generate demand in advance of our customers expressly indicating a need for that particular design. Even if our customers system designers select our products, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred. The reasons for this delay generally include the following elements of our product sales and development cycle timeline and related influences: our customers usually require a comprehensive technical evaluation of our products before they incorporate them into their designs, it can take from six months to three years from the time our products are selected to commence commercial shipments; and our customers may experience changed market conditions or product development issues. The resources devoted to product development and sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory if we have produced product in anticipation of expected demand. We may spend resources on the development of products that our customers may not adopt. If we incur significant expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. Additionally, even if system designers use our products in their systems, we cannot assure you that these systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant revenue from the sales of our products for those systems. As a result, we may be unable to accurately forecast the volume and timing of our orders and revenues associated with any new product introductions. Additionally, failure of our customers to agree to pay for NRE (non-recurring engineering) costs or failure to pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs may harm our financial results. See also, " Research and Development" under Results of Operations. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products that address customer requirements, in a timely and cost-effective manner and are competitive as to a variety of factors. For example, for our products addressing the 5G market, we must successfully identify customer requirements and design, develop and produce products on time that compete effectively as to price, functionality and performance. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. In addition, the development of new silicon devices is highly complex and, due to supply chain cross-dependencies and other issues, we may experience delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. See also, We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. 22 Our ability to adapt to changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully and in a timely manner. Even if we and our customers introduce new and enhanced products to the market, those products may not achieve market acceptance. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. From time to time, we have experienced hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. Despite our testing procedures, we cannot ensure that errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future. Such errors could result in: loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products; material recall and replacement costs; delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenue; writing down the inventory of defective products; the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts; our having to defend against litigation related to defective products or related property damage or personal injury; and damage to our reputation in the industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, the process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources. We may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field, which may cause us to incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and further reputational harm. Any of these problems could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Despite our best efforts, security vulnerabilities may exist with respect to our products. Mitigation techniques designed to address such security vulnerabilities, including software and firmware updates or other preventative measures, may not operate as intended or effectively resolve such vulnerabilities. Software and firmware updates and/or other mitigation efforts may result in performance issues, system instability, data loss or corruption, unpredictable system behavior, or the theft of data by third parties, any of which could significantly harm our business and reputation. We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. 23 CHANGES IN PRODUCT DEMAND CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Unfavorable or uncertain conditions in the 5G infrastructure market may cause fluctuations in our rate of revenue growth or financial results. Markets for 5G infrastructure may not develop in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate. If domestic and global economic conditions worsen, particularly in light of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and potential global recession resulting therefrom, overall spending on 5G infrastructure may be reduced, which would adversely impact demand for our products in these markets. In addition, unfavorable developments with evolving laws and regulations worldwide related to 5G or 5G suppliers may limit global adoption, impede our strategy, and negatively impact our long-term expectations in this area. Even if the 5G infrastructure market develops in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate, if we do not have timely, competitively priced, market-accepted products available to meet our customers planned roll-out of 5G wireless communication systems, we may miss a significant opportunity and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See also, Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. for additional risks related to export restrictions that may impact a customer in the 5G infrastructure market. Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. For example, during fiscal 2021, there was one distributor, whose revenue as a percentage of our net revenue was 10% or greater of total net revenues. In addition, net revenue from our two largest customers, including this distributor, represented 22% of our net revenue for the year ended January 30, 2021. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and natural disasters or other issues that may divert a customers operations. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent one or more of our large customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy or insolvency, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our ability to collect on receivables, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to increase the number of large customers in key markets, then our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: a significant portion of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with relatively short notice to us; customers may purchase similar products from our competitors; customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products; customers, particularly in jurisdictions such as China that may be subject to trade restrictions or tariffs, may develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties; customers may be subject to severe business disruptions, including, but not limited to, those driven by financial instability, actual or threatened pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or public health emergencies or other global or regional macroeconomic developments; or customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation sold control of a portion of its semiconductor business in 2018), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders. 24 We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory or be unable to obtain the supplies or contract manufacturing capacity to meet that demand which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Due to their inability to predict demand or other reasons, some of our customers may accumulate excess inventories and, as a consequence, defer purchase of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our customers product development processes, which may include extensive qualification and testing of components included in their products, including ours. In many cases, they design their products to use components from multiple suppliers. This creates the risk that our customers may decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which creates supply chain cross-dependencies. Due to cross dependencies, any supply chain disruptions could negatively impact the demand for our products in the short term. We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction. In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations. See also, " We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business" for additional information on the impacts of supply chain cross-dependencies on our business. If we overestimate customer demand, our excess or obsolete inventory may increase significantly, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. The risk of obsolescence and/or excess inventory is heightened for devices designed for consumer electronics due to the rapidly changing market for these types of products. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We operate in intensely competitive markets. Our failure to compete effectively would harm our results of operations. The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and infrastructure markets, is extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the infrastructure, networking and SSD storage markets. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. Some of our competitors may be better situated to meet changing customer needs and secure design wins. Increasing competition in the markets in which we operate may negatively impact our revenue and gross margins. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. 25 We also may experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices by our competitors that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. In addition, some of these competitors may use their market power to dissuade our customers from purchasing from us. For example, certain U.S. and E.U. regulators are currently investigating whether a competitor may have abused its dominant market position to harm competition by forcing customers to deal with it exclusively, bundling its various semiconductors with other products, or by distorting the market by using illegal rebates. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years. For example, Microchip Technology acquired Microsemi in May 2018 and ON Semiconductor purchased Quantenna Communications, Inc. in June 2019, NVIDIA Corporation acquired Mellanox Technologies on April 27, 2020 and Infineon acquired Cypress Semiconductors on April 16, 2020. In July 2020, Analog Devices Inc. announced its intent to merge with Maxim Integrated Products Inc. In September 2020, NVIDIA announced its intent to acquire Arm Limited. We license technology from Arm Limited and would be adversely impacted if the pricing for, or availability of, the relevant technology is changed in an adverse manner as a result of this transaction. In October 2020, AMD announced its intent to acquire Xilinx, Inc. Consolidation among our competitors has led, and in the future could lead, to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue comes from the storage industry, which experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation, is facing increased competition from alternative technologies and is highly cyclical. We depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations. SSD customers have, and may in the future develop their own controllers, which could pose a challenge to our market share in the SSD space and adversely affect our revenues in the storage business. Furthermore, future changes in the nature of information storage products and personal computing devices could reduce demand for traditional HDDs. For example, products using alternative technologies, such as SSD and other storage technologies are a source of competition to manufacturers of HDDs. Although we offer SSD controllers, leveraging our technology in hard drives, we cannot ensure that our overall business will not be adversely affected if demand for traditional HDDs decreases. Manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the industry often result in shifts in market share among the industrys participants. If the HDD and SSD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. In addition, the storage industry has experienced significant consolidation. Consolidation among our customers will lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders, each of which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to leverage our technology and customer relationships, we may not capitalize on the increased opportunities for our products within the combined company. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers participate in this industry. As a result, the average selling price of each of our products usually declines as individual products mature and competitors enter the market. Our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in average selling prices of products over time and shifts in our product mix as well as the price increase of certain components and testing and assembly. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high-volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. In addition, our more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production expenses. Therefore, over time, we may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by other cost reductions through efficiencies, introduction of higher margin products and other means. 26 To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain price concessions to certain customers, which could cause our average selling prices and gross margins to decline. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or by our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will continue to have to reduce prices of existing products in the future. Moreover, because of the wide price differences across the markets we serve, the mix and types of performance capabilities of our products sold may affect the average selling prices of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. We may enter new markets in which a significant amount of competition exists, and this may require us to sell our products with lower gross margins than we earn in our established businesses. If we are successful in growing revenue in these markets, our overall gross margin may decline. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result may harm our financial results. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margins. Our gross margin could also be impacted by increased cost (including those caused by tariffs), loss of cost savings or dilution of savings due to changes in charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either contract manufacturers or suppliers deteriorates as well as excess inventory and inventory holding and obsolescence charges. In addition, we are subject to risks from fluctuating market prices of certain components, which are incorporated into our products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our products. Supplies of these components may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect pricing of such commodities. For example, recent supply shortages in the semiconductor industry of multi-layer complex substrates, IC packaging capacity and fab constraints have resulted in increased lead times, inability to meet demand, and increased costs. Any increase in the price of components used in our products will adversely affect our gross margins. Entry into new markets, such as markets with different business models, as a result of our acquisitions may reduce our gross margin and operating margin. For example, the Avera business uses an ASIC model to offer end-to-end solutions for IP, design team, Fab & packaging to deliver a tested, yielded product to customers. This business model tends to have a lower gross margin. In addition, the costs related to this type of business model typically include significant NRE (non-recurring engineering) costs that customers pay based on the completion of milestones. Our operating margin may decline if our customers do not agree to pay for NREs or if they do not pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs. In addition, our operating margin may decline if we are unable to sell products in sufficient volumes to cover the development costs that we have incurred. CHANGES IN OUR EFFECTIVE TAX RATE MAY REDUCE OUR NET INCOME Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may also have a significant effect on our reported results. Both the U.S. Congress and the G-20 (Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors) may consider legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities and have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, in prior years, we have entered into incentive agreements in certain foreign jurisdictions that if certain criteria are met, the foreign jurisdiction will provide a more favorable tax rate than their current statutory rate. For example, we have obtained an undertaking from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda that in the event Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, or capital asset, gain or appreciation, then the imposition of any such taxes will not apply to us until March 31, 2035. Additionally, our Singapore subsidiary qualifies for the Development and Expansion Incentive until June 2024. Furthermore, under the Israeli Encouragement law of approved or benefited enterprise, our subsidiary in Israel, Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd., is entitled to, and has certain existing programs that qualify as, approved and benefited tax programs that include reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income through fiscal 2027. Moreover, receipt of past and future benefits under tax agreements may depend on our ability to fulfill commitments regarding employment of personnel or performance of specified activities in the applicable jurisdiction. Changes in our business plans, including divestitures, could result in termination of an agreement or loss of benefits thereunder. If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated, our results of operations would be harmed. 27 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and issued in 2015, and is expected to continue to issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in some of the countries in which we do business. We can provide no assurance that changes in tax laws and additional investigations as a result of this project would not have an adverse tax impact on our international operations. In addition, the European Union (EU) has initiated its own measures along similar lines. In December 2017, the EU identified certain jurisdictions (including Bermuda and Cayman Islands) which it considered had a tax system that facilitated offshore structuring by attracting profits without commensurate economic activity. In order to avoid EU blacklisting, both Bermuda and Cayman Islands introduced new legislation in December 2018, which came into force on January 1, 2019. These new laws require Bermuda and Cayman companies carrying on one or more relevant activity (including: banking, insurance, fund management, financing, leasing, headquarters, shipping, distribution and service center, intellectual property or holding company) to maintain a substantial economic presence in Bermuda in order to comply with the economic substance requirements. It is still not clear how the Bermuda and Cayman Islands authorities will interpret and enforce these new rules. To the extent that we are required to maintain more of a presence in Bermuda or the Cayman Islands, such requirements will increase our costs either directly in those locations or indirectly as a result of increased costs related to moving our operations to other jurisdictions. In addition, in a prior period, the Company transferred certain intellectual property to a related entity in Singapore. The impact to the Company was determined based on our determination of the fair value of this property, which required management to make significant estimates and to apply complex tax regulations in multiple jurisdictions. In a future period, local tax authorities may challenge the fair value determinations made by the Company, which could adversely impact our expected tax benefits from this transaction. On October 29, 2020, the Company entered into a definitive agreement (the Merger Agreement) with Inphi Corporation (Inphi), Marvell Technology, Inc. (f/k/a Maui HoldCo, Inc.), a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Marvell (HoldCo), Maui Acquisition Company Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company and a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo (Bermuda Merger Sub), and Indigo Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo (Delaware Merger Sub), pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, the Company will acquire Inphi with cash and stock consideration. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement: (i) Bermuda Merger Sub will be merged with and into Marvell (the Bermuda Merger), with Marvell continuing as a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo; and (ii) Delaware Merger Sub will be merged with and into Inphi (the Delaware Merger and, together with the Bermuda Merger, the Mergers), with Inphi continuing as a wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo. As a result of this transaction, upon closing, the parent company will be domiciled in the US and not Bermuda. As a result, the combined group will be subject to taxation in the US, which currently has a federal tax rate of 21%, and that federal income tax rate could be increased in the future by the current Congress and presidential administration, which has proposed raising it to as high as 28%. This may cause our overall effective tax rate to increase significantly versus our current corporate effective tax rate as a Bermuda-domiciled company, which could materially impact our financial results, including our earnings and cash flow, for periods after the completion of the proposed Mergers. Our profitability and effective tax rate could be impacted by unexpected changes to our statutory income tax rates or income tax liabilities. Such changes might include changes in tax law or regulations, changes to our geographic mix of earnings, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in our supply chain and changes due to audit assessments. In particular, the tax benefits associated with our transfer of intellectual property to Singapore are sensitive to future profitability and taxable income in Singapore, audit assessments, and changes in applicable tax law. Our current corporate effective tax rate fluctuates significantly from period to period, and is based upon the application of currently applicable income tax laws, regulations and treaties, as well as current judicial and administrative interpretations of these income tax laws, regulations and treaties, in various jurisdictions. 28 WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR ASSETS We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. We had approximately $5.3 billion of goodwill and $2.3 billion of acquired intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 30, 2021. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to review our intangible assets including goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment annually on the last business day of our fiscal fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. When testing goodwill for impairment, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value or we may determine to proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. Factors we consider important in the qualitative assessment which could trigger a goodwill impairment review include: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; significant negative industry or economic trends; a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and a significant change in our market capitalization relative to our net book value. We assess the impairment of intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. Circumstances which could trigger a review include, but are not limited to the following: significant decreases in the market price of the asset; significant adverse changes in the business climate or legal factors; accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of the asset; current period cash flow or operating losses combined with a history of losses or a forecast of continuing losses associated with the use of the asset; and current expectation that the asset will more likely than not be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its estimated useful life. For example, during the second quarter ended August 1, 2020, we made changes to the scope of our server processor product line in response to changes in the associated market. We are transitioning our product offering from standard server processors to the broad server market to focus only on customized server processors for a few targeted customers. This change in strategy required the Company to assess whether the carrying value of the associated assets would be recoverable. As a result of the assessment, we determined the carrying amount of certain impacted assets are not recoverable, which have resulted in recognition of $119.0 million of restructuring related charges associated with the server processor product line during the second quarter of fiscal 2021. See Note 6 - Restructuring in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. We have determined that our business operates as a single operating segment with two primary components (Storage and Networking), which we have concluded can be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of testing goodwill impairment. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by taking our market capitalization as determined through quoted market prices and as adjusted for a control premium and other relevant factors. If our fair value declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. If in the future a change in our organizational structure results in more than one reporting unit, we will be required to allocate our goodwill and perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment in each reporting unit. As a result, we could have an impairment of goodwill in one or more of such future reporting units. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in private companies. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. If the operations of any businesses that we have acquired declines significantly, we could incur significant intangible asset impairment charges. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. Our buildings in Santa Clara, California and Shanghai, China subject us to the risks of owning real property, which include, but are not limited to: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with remediating any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; 29 the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving to or renovating the facility; increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property, or both; increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property, or both; possible disputes with third parties related to the buildings or the property, or both; failure to achieve expected cost savings due to extended non-occupancy of a vacated property intended to be leased; and the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and/or other natural disasters. WE ARE SUBJECT TO IP RISKS AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LITIGATION AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from the collection of proprietary technologies we have developed and acquired since our inception, and the protection of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, important to the success of our business. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed, which could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenue. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements, licenses and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding these agreements, we have experienced disputes with employees regarding ownership of intellectual property in the past. To the extent that any third party has a claim to ownership of any relevant technologies used in our products, we may not be able to recognize the full revenue stream from such relevant technologies. We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We may also be required to license some of our patents to others including competitors as a result of our participation in and contribution to development of industry standards. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or other developed countries. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and protecting our confidential information including our intellectual property. Despite our efforts, we may be subject to breach of these security systems and controls which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and labs and/or unauthorized use or theft of the confidential information and intellectual property we are trying to protect. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed, which could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenue. Certain of our software, as well as that of our customers, may be derived from so-called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license we customarily use to protect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 30 We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, which may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: intellectual property ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; conflict minerals; data privacy requirements; competition; advertising; employment; product regulations; environment, health and safety requirements; and consumer laws. For example, government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. In addition, we are subject to various industry requirements restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with such laws and regulations. Our compliance programs rely in part on compliance by our suppliers, vendors and distributors. To the extent such third parties don't comply with these obligations our business, operations and reputation may be adversely impacted. If we violate or fail to comply with any of the above requirements, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. The costs of complying with these laws (including the costs of any investigations, auditing and monitoring) could adversely affect our current or future business. Our product or manufacturing standards could also be impacted by new or revised environmental rules and regulations or other social initiatives. For example, a significant portion of our revenues come from international sales. Environmental legislation, such as the EU Directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE Directive) and Chinas regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our revenues from the EU, China and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. In connection with some of our acquisitions, we have been subject to regulatory conditions imposed by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) where we have agreed to implement certain cyber security, physical security and training measures and supply agreements to protect national security. A portion of the business we acquired in the Avera acquisition requires facility security clearances under the National Industrial Security Program. The National Industrial Security Program requires that a corporation maintaining a facility security clearance be effectively insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence (FOCI). Because we are organized in Bermuda, we have entered into agreements with the U.S. Department of Defense with respect to FOCI mitigation arrangements that relate to our operation of the portion of the Avera business involving facility clearances. These measures and arrangements may materially and adversely affect our operating results due to the increased cost of compliance with these measures. If we fail to comply with our obligations under these agreements, our ability to operate our business may be adversely affected. As a result of the proposed transaction with Inphi, our parent company will be domiciled in the United States upon closing of the transaction. As a result, we plan to request to be released from some of the above obligations. We can offer no assurance that such a request will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Primarily as a result of our acquisition of Avera, we are now a party to certain contracts with the U.S. government or its subcontractors. Our contracts with government entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. We may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts, and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business. In addition, such contracts may provide for termination by the government at any time, without cause. Any of these risks related to contracting with governmental entities could adversely impact our future sales and operating results. 31 We have been named as a party to several legal proceedings and may be named in additional ones in the future, including litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. We are currently, and have been in the past, named as a party to several lawsuits, government inquiries or investigations and other legal proceedings (referred to as litigation), and we may be named in additional ones in the future. Please see Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies of our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of material litigation matters in which we may be currently engaged. See also, Litigation filed against Marvell and Inphi could prevent or delay the completion of the Mergers or result in the payment of damages following completion of the Mergers. In particular, litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios. The amount of damages alleged in intellectual property infringement claims can often be very significant. See also, We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. From time to time, our subsidiaries and customers receive, and may continue to receive in the future, standards-based or other types of infringement claims, as well as claims against us and our subsidiaries proprietary technologies. These claims could result in litigation and/or claims for indemnification, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages, attorneys fees and costs. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: stop selling, offering for sale, making, having made or exporting products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us; pay substantial damages and/or license fees and/or royalties to the party claiming infringement or other license violations that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results; attempt to obtain or renew licenses to the relevant intellectual property, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses for current and former directors and officers. See also, Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, from time to time, we have agreed to indemnify select customers for claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patents, registered trademarks and/or copyrights. If we are required to make a significant payment under any of our indemnification obligations, our results of operations may be harmed. The ultimate outcome of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, may result in significant expenditures, diversion of our managements time and attention from the operation of our business and damage to our reputation or relationship with third parties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. On July 6, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Cavium, we incurred substantial indebtedness pursuant to a Credit Agreement (the 2018 Credit Agreement). The 2018 Credit Agreement provides for a $900 million Term Loan (the 2018 Term Loan). The 2018 Term Loan will mature on July 6, 2021. As of January 30, 2021, the outstanding principal balance of the 2018 Term Loan amounted to $200 million. See Note 11 - Debt for discussion of the debt financing in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. 32 In addition, we intend to pay the cash portion of the consideration for the Mergers and other fees and expenses required to be paid in connection with the Mergers from cash on hand and borrowings. We have obtained financing commitments for (i) a $2.5 billion senior 364-day bridge term loan facility (the Bridge Facility) pursuant to a commitment letter (the Bridge Commitment Letter) dated as of October 29, 2020, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMorgan) and the other financial institutions that have joined thereto, and (ii) a $1.75 billion senior unsecured term loan facility comprised of a $875.0 million 3-year term loan tranche (the 3 Year Term Loan) and a $875.0 million 5-year term loan tranche (the 5-Year Term Loan, and collectively with the 3-Year Term Loan, the 2020 Term Loan Facility) pursuant to a credit agreement, dated December 7, 2020 (the 2020 Term Loan Agreement), with JPMorgan, as administrative agent and a lender, and the other lenders from time to time party thereto. Pursuant to the Bridge Commitment Letter and the 2020 Term Loan Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, JPMorgan and the other lenders party thereto have committed to provide the full amount of the Bridge Facility and the Term Loan Facility, as applicable. The funding of the Bridge Facility provided for in the Bridge Commitment Letter and the funding of the Term Loan Facility provided for in the 2020 Term Loan Agreement, in each case, is contingent upon the satisfaction of customary conditions, including (i) execution and delivery of definitive documentation with respect to the Bridge Facility in accordance with the terms set forth in the Bridge Commitment Letter and (ii) consummation of the Mergers in accordance with the Merger Agreement. The actual documentation governing the Bridge Facility has not been finalized, and accordingly, the actual terms may differ from the description of such terms in the applicable Bridge Commitment Letter. Availability under the Bridge Facility will be reduced by the net cash proceeds from customary mandatory commitment reduction and prepayment events from issuances of equity, the incurrence of certain other debt or the sale of available assets, in each case subject to limited exceptions. We expect to replace some or all of the Bridge Facility prior to the closing of the Mergers with permanent financing comprised of senior unsecured notes. There can be no assurance that the permanent financing will be completed. In addition to the loans under the credit agreements, on June 22, 2018, we completed a public offering of (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023 (the 2023 Notes) and (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys 4.875% Senior Notes due 2028 (the 2028 Notes and, together with the 2023 Notes, the Senior Notes). We are obligated to pay interest on the Senior Notes on June 22 and December 22 of each year, beginning on December 22, 2018. The 2023 Notes will mature on June 22, 2023 and the 2028 Notes will mature on June 22, 2028. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, execution of our business strategy, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the economy and the semiconductor industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness; exposing us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate indebtedness; and making it more difficult to borrow additional funds in the future to fund growth, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. Although the credit agreements contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains restrictions on creating liens and entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness, liens or sale-leaseback transactions incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The credit agreements and the Senior Notes contain customary events of default upon the occurrence of which, after any applicable grace period, the lenders would have the ability to immediately declare the loans due and payable in whole or in part. In such event, we may not have sufficient available cash to repay such debt at the time it becomes due, or be able to refinance such debt on acceptable terms or at all. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to access cash or to incur additional indebtedness if the COVID-19 pandemic causes the closure of banks for an extended period of time or if there is a sudden increase in requests for indebtedness at one time by many potential borrowers which could overwhelm the banking industry. 33 Adverse changes to our debt ratings could negatively affect our ability to raise additional capital. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix and commodity pricing levels could also be considered by the rating agencies. The applicable margins with respect to the Term Loan will vary based on the applicable public ratings assigned to the collateralized, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC, Fitchs and any successor to each such rating agency business. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access debt markets in the future and increase the cost of current or future debt and may adversely affect our share price. The Credit Agreements and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued impose restrictions on our business. The credit agreements and the indenture for the Senior Notes each contains a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments. These restrictions are subject to a number of limitations and exceptions set forth in the credit agreements and the indenture for the Senior Notes. Our ability to meet the liquidity covenant or the leverage ratio set forth in the credit agreements may be affected by events beyond our control. The foregoing restrictions could limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in market conditions or our capital needs. We do not know whether we will be granted waivers under, or amendments to, our credit agreements or to the Senior Notes if for any reason we are unable to meet these requirements, or whether we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration. We may, under certain circumstances, be required to repurchase the Senior Notes at the option of the holder. We will be required to repurchase the Senior Notes at the option of each holder upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the indenture for the Senior Notes. However, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash at the time of any change of control repurchase event. Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the indenture for the Senior Notes and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness. The repayment obligations under the Senior Notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. If we were required to pay the Senior Notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives. 34 WE ARE SUBJECT TO CYBERSECURITY RISKS Cybersecurity risks could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. We depend heavily on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. We routinely collect and store sensitive data in our information systems, including intellectual property and other proprietary information about our business and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners. These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, destructive or inadequate code, malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, internal malfeasance or other events. Cyber-attacks on us may include viruses and worms, phishing attacks, and denial-of-service attacks. In addition, we may be the target of email scams that attempt to acquire personal information or company assets. We have implemented processes for systems under our control intended to mitigate risks; however, we can provide no guarantee that those risk mitigation measures will be effective. While we have historically been successful in defending against cyber-attacks and breaches, given the frequency of cyber-attacks and resulting breaches reported by other businesses and governments, it is likely we will experience one or more breaches of some extent in the future. We have incurred and may in the future incur significant costs in order to implement, maintain and/or update security systems we feel are necessary to protect our information systems, or we may miscalculate the level of investment necessary to protect our systems adequately. Since the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. The Companys business also requires it to share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures may not always be effective and data breaches, losses or other unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information may occur and could materially adversely affect the Companys reputation, financial condition and operating results and could result in liability or penalties under data privacy laws. To the extent that any system failure, accident or security breach results in material disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the theft, loss or disclosure of, or damage to our data or confidential information, including our intellectual property, our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. GENERAL RISK FACTORS We depend on highly skilled personnel to support our business operations. If we are unable to retain and motivate our current personnel or attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense, both in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based and in global markets in which we operate. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel also depends on how well we maintain a strong workplace culture that is attractive to employees. Changes to United States immigration policies that restrict our ability to attract and retain technical personnel may negatively affect our research and development efforts. We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The impact on employee morale experienced in connection with our recent restructuring efforts and in connection with our recent acquisitions and divestiture, could make it more difficult for us to add to our workforce when needed due to speculation regarding our future restructuring activities. In addition, as a result of our acquisitions and divestiture, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their futures that may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. 35 There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or effect share repurchases in any particular amount or at all, and statutory requirements under Bermuda Law may require us to defer payment of declared dividends or suspend share repurchases. In May 2012, we declared our first quarterly cash dividend and in October 2018, we announced that our board of directors had authorized a $700 million addition to our previously existing $1 billion share repurchase program. An aggregate of $1.1 billion of shares have been repurchased under that program as of January 30, 2021. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and future share repurchases will be subject to, among other things: the best interests of our company and our shareholders; our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements; financial condition; developments in ongoing litigation; statutory requirements under Bermuda law; market conditions; and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments or share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in, a delay of, or elimination of our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on our share price. Our share repurchase program was temporarily suspended in late March 2020 to preserve cash during the COVID-19 pandemic and remains temporarily suspended to preserve cash in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Inphi. Although share repurchases were temporarily suspended during this time, as of January 30, 2021, there was $564.5 million remaining available for future share repurchases under the authorization. We will continue to evaluate business conditions to decide when we can restart the share repurchase program. Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under Bermuda law, our articles of association and bye-laws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current and future investigations and litigation. For example, we incurred significant indemnification expenses in connection with the Audit Committee's independent investigation completed in March 2016 and related shareholder litigation and government investigations. In connection with some of these matters, we were required to, or we otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, legal fees and related expenses to certain of our current and former directors and officers. Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them. We cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. Additionally, to the extent there is coverage of these claims, the insurers also may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As we carry only limited insurance coverage, any incurred liability resulting from uncovered claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset losses from covered incidents, and we do not have coverage for certain losses. For example, there is very limited coverage available with respect to the services provided by our third-party foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. In the event of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake or tsunami), political or military turmoil, widespread public health emergencies including pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, or other significant disruptions to their operations, insurance may not adequately protect us from this exposure. We believe our existing insurance coverage is consistent with common practice, economic considerations and availability considerations. If our insurance coverage is insufficient to protect us against unforeseen catastrophic losses, any uncovered losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 36 If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, there would be adverse tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company or PFIC under section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended (the Code), for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds ordinary shares, such U.S. holder generally would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares and on any excess distributions (including constructive distributions) received on the ordinary shares. Such U.S. holder could also be subject to a special interest charge with respect to any such gain or excess distribution. We would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) on average, the percentage of our assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% (determined on an average gross value basis). We were not classified as a PFIC for fiscal year 2020 or in any prior taxable year. Whether we will, in fact, be classified as a PFIC for any subsequent taxable year depends on our assets and income over the course of the relevant taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty. In particular, because the total value of our assets for purposes of the asset test will be calculated based upon the market price of our ordinary shares, a significant and sustained decline in the market price of our ordinary shares and corresponding market capitalization relative to our passive assets could result in our being classified as a PFIC. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in the future or the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our determination concerning PFIC status for any prior period. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties The following table presents the approximate square footage of our significant owned and leased facilities as of January 30, 2021: (Square Feet) Locations Primary Use Owned Facilities Leased Facilities (1) United States Research and design, sales and marketing, administration and operations 983,000 438,000 India Research and design 263,000 Israel Research and design 220,000 China Research and design, and sales and marketing 116,000 46,000 Taiwan Research and design 49,000 Singapore Operations, and research and design 55,000 Total 1,099,000 1,071,000 (1) Lease terms expire in various years from 2021 through 2030, provided, however, that we have the option to extend certain leases past the current lease term. We have ceased-use lease facilities and subleased facilities of approximately 442,010 square feet in the United States that are excluded from the table above. We also lease smaller facilities in various international locations, which are occupied by administrative, sales, design and field application personnel. Based on the potential for future hiring, we believe that our current facilities in most locations will be adequate to meet our requirements at least through the next fiscal year. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information set forth under Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. For a discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, please see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors above. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 37 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol MRVL. Our common shares began trading on June 27, 2000, upon completion of our initial public offering. As of March 9, 2021, the approximate number of record holders of our common shares was 513 (not including beneficial owners of stock held in street name). Stock Price Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. The graph below compares the cumulative total shareholder return of our common shares with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index since January 30, 2016 through January 30, 2021. The graph compares a $100 investment on January 30, 2016 in our common shares with a $100 investment on January 30, 2016 in each index and assumes that any dividends were reinvested. Shareholder returns over the indicated periods should not be considered indicative of future stock prices or shareholder returns. 1/30/2016 1/28/2017 2/3/2018 2/2/2019 2/1/2020 1/30/2021 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 100.00 174.10 262.33 218.12 287.74 620.20 S&P 500 100.00 120.87 148.47 148.38 180.37 211.48 PHLX Semiconductor 100.00 159.88 222.64 221.67 314.23 515.27 38 Dividends Our board of directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.06 per share payable to holders of our common shares in each quarter of fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019. As a result, we paid total cash dividends of $160.6 million in fiscal 2021, $159.6 million in fiscal 2020, and $148.1 million in fiscal 2019. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on the Companys common shares will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, the Companys results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Bermuda law and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The Companys dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our share repurchase program was temporarily suspended in late March 2020 to preserve cash during the COVID-19 pandemic and remains temporarily suspended to preserve cash in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Inphi. As a result, we did not repurchase any shares during the three months ended January 30, 2021. We will continue to evaluate business conditions to decide when we can restart the share repurchase program. Although share repurchases are temporarily suspended, we have $564.5 million of repurchase authority remaining under our current share repurchase program. From August 2010 when our Board of Directors initially authorized a share repurchase program through January 30, 2021, a total of 308.1 million shares have been repurchased under the Companys share repurchase program for a total $4.3 billion in cash and $564.5 million remains available for future share repurchases. 39 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Overview We are a leading supplier of infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge. We are a fabless semiconductor supplier of high-performance standard and semi-custom products with core strengths in developing and scaling complex System-on-a-Chip architectures integrating analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing functionality. Leveraging leading intellectual property and deep system-level expertise as well as highly innovative security firmware, our solutions are empowering the data economy and enabling communications across 5G, cloud, automotive, industrial and artificial intelligence applications. Net revenue in fiscal 2021 was $3.0 billion and was 10% higher than net revenue of $2.7 billion in fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily due to a 22% increase in sales of our networking products, a 1% increase in sales of our storage products, partially offset by a 27% decrease in sales of our other products. In response to growth in demand from customers for our products, our operations team is continuing to ramp production with our global supply chain partners. However, we have begun to experience a number of industry-wide supply constraints affecting the type of high complexity products we provide for data infrastructure. These supply challenges are currently limiting our ability to fully satisfy the increase in demand for some of our products. We continue to monitor the impact of COVID-19 on our business. While many of our offices around the world remain open to enable critical on-site business functions in accordance with local government guidelines, the majority of our employees continue to work from home. During fiscal 2021, some of our customers have reported adverse impacts on demand for their products due to COVID-19. We have seen a reduction in demand for products from customers in the enterprise networking, and enterprise server and storage end markets. We expect COVID-19 to continue to impact our business and for a further discussion of the uncertainties and business risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption We face risks related to COVID-19 pandemic which could significantly disrupt our manufacturing, research and development, operations, sales and financial results . We expect that the U.S. government's export restrictions on certain Chinese customers will continue to impact our revenue in fiscal year 2022. Moreover, concerns that U.S. companies may not be reliable suppliers as a result of these and other actions has caused, and may in the future cause, some of our customers in China to amass large inventories of our products well in advance of need or cause some of our customers to replace our products in favor of products from other suppliers. Customers in China may also choose to develop indigenous solutions, as replacements for products that are subject to U.S. export controls. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business that we can not easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customers' products which use our solutions may also be impacted by export restrictions. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Saturday closest to January 31. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period. The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks. Fiscal 2020 had a 52-week period. Fiscal 2021 is a 52-week period. Pending Business Combination . On October 29, 2020, we entered into a merger agreement (the Merger Agreement) with Inphi Corporation (Inphi), whereby we will acquire Inphi with cash and stock consideration. Under the terms of the agreement, we will pay Inphi's stockholders $66 per share in cash and 2.323 common shares for each Inphi share, which represented purchase consideration of approximately $10 billion. The merger consideration will be financed by new debt financing and issuance of our common shares. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of calendar 2021, pending approval by Inphi's and our shareholders, as well as regulatory approval and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. As a result of the transaction, the parent company will be domiciled in the United States upon closing of the transaction. Inphi is a global leader in high-speed data movement enabled by optical interconnects. Their product portfolio includes laser drivers, TIA (Trans-Impedance Amplifiers), PAM (Pulse Amplitude Modulation) and Coherent DSPs (Digital Signal Processors) and data center interconnects. We and Inphi both have growing positions in carrier and datacenter, and Inphis high-speed electro-optics platform is highly complementary to our storage, networking, compute, and security portfolio. Inphis electro-optics portfolio combined with our copper Ethernet PHY franchise is expected to create an industry-leading high-speed data interconnect platform serving the enterprise, carrier, data center, and automotive end markets. 40 Restructuring. We continuously evaluate our existing operations to increase operational efficiency, decrease costs and increase profitability. In July 2018, as part of the integration of the acquired Cavium business, we initiated a restructuring plan intended to achieve these goals. As part of this restructuring plan, revenue from our former Networking and Connectivity product groups were combined into one group named Networking. In December 2019, as part of the integration of the acquired Avera business, we initiated a restructuring plan intended to further achieve the aforementioned goals. During the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we made changes to the scope of our server processor product line in response to changes in the associated market. We transitioned our product offering from standard server processors to the broad server market to focus only on customized server processors for a few targeted customers. This change in strategy required the Company to assess whether the carrying value of the associated assets would be recoverable. As a result of the assessment, we determined the carrying amount of certain impacted assets were not recoverable, which have resulted in recognition of $119.0 million of restructuring related charges associated with the server processor product line during the second quarter of fiscal 2021. See Note 6 - Restructuring in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. During fiscal 2021, we recorded restructuring and other related charges of $180.4 million. See Note 6 - Restructuring and Other Related Charges in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Capital Return Program. We remain committed to delivering shareholder value through our share repurchase and dividend programs. On October 16, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $700 million addition to the balance of our existing share repurchase plan. Under the program authorized by our Board of Directors, we may repurchase shares in the open-market or through privately negotiated transactions. The extent to which we repurchase our shares and the timing of such repurchases will depend upon market conditions and other corporate considerations, as determined by our management team. The share repurchase program was temporarily suspended in late March 2020 to preserve cash during the COVID-19 pandemic and remains temporarily suspended to preserve cash in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Inphi. As a result, we did not repurchase any shares subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2021. We will continue to evaluate business conditions to decide when we can restart the share repurchase program. As of January 30, 2021, there was $564.5 million remaining available for future share repurchases. See Note 13 - Shareholders Equity in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. We returned $185.8 million to stockholders in fiscal 2021, including $25.2 million through repurchases of common stock and $160.6 million of cash dividends. Cash and Short-Term Investments. Our cash and cash equivalents were $748.5 million at January 30, 2021, which was $100.9 million higher than our balance at our fiscal year ended February 1, 2020 of $647.6 million. We had cash flow provided by operations of $817.3 million during fiscal 2021. Sales and Customer Composition. Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. See the table in our discussion of Customers, Sales and Marketing in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of our distributors and believe these distributors sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk. Most of our sales are made to customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and majority of our products are manufactured outside the United States. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 80% of our net revenues in fiscal 2021 and 82% of our net revenue in fiscal 2020 and 85% of our net revenue in fiscal 2019. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. For risks related to our global operations, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations. Historically, a relatively large portion of our sales have been made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In addition, the development process for our products is long, which may cause us to experience a delay between the time we incur expenses and the time revenue is generated from these expenditures. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. For risks related to our sales cycle, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption, We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships. 41 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America(GAAP) requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, income taxes, goodwill and other intangible assets, and business combinations. We base our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances when these carrying values are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates, and such differences could affect the results of operations reported in future periods. In the current macroeconomic environment affected by COVID-19, our estimates could require increased judgment and carry a higher degree of variability and volatility. We continue to monitor and assess our estimates in light of developments, and as events continue to evolve and additional information becomes available, our estimates may change materially in future periods. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. For further information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Under the revenue recognition standard, we apply the following five step approach: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when a performance obligation is satisfied. We enter into contracts that may include various combinations of products and services that are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. To date, the majority of the revenue has been generated by sales associated with storage and networking products. Revenue from services has been insignificant. Performance obligations associated with product sales transactions are generally satisfied when control passes to customers upon shipment. Accordingly, product revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer. We recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. For product revenue, the performance obligation is deemed to be the delivery of the product and therefore, the revenue is generally recognized upon shipment to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. These estimates are based on historical returns, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. Actual returns could differ from these estimates. We account for rebates by recording reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms agreed to with the customer. Some of our sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing for price protection, price discounts and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Control passes to the distributor upon shipment, and terms and payment by our distributors is not contingent on resale of the product. Product revenue on sales made to distributors with price protection and stock rotation rights is recognized upon shipment to distributors, with an accrual for the variable consideration aspect of sales to distributors, estimated based on historical experience, including estimates for price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs. Actual variable consideration could differ from these estimates. A portion of our net revenue is derived from sales through third-party logistics providers who maintain warehouses in close proximity to our customers facilities. Revenue from sales through these third-party logistics providers is not recognized until the product is pulled from stock by the customer. Our products are generally subject to warranty, which provides for the estimated future costs of replacement upon shipment of the product. Our products carry a standard one-year warranty, with certain exceptions in which the warranty period can extend to more than one year based on contractual agreements. The warranty accrual is estimated primarily based on historical claims compared to historical revenues and assumes that we will have to replace products subject to a claim. From time to time, we become aware of specific warranty situations, and we record specific accruals to cover these exposures. Warranty expenses were not material for the periods presented. 42 Inventories . We value our inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value, cost being determined under the first-in, first-out method. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and record a reduction to the total carrying value of our inventory for any difference between cost and estimated net realizable value of inventory that is determined to be excess, obsolete or unsellable inventory based primarily on our estimated forecast of product demand and production requirements. The estimate of future demand is compared to our inventory levels, including open purchase commitments, to determine the amount, if any, of obsolete or excess inventory. Demand for our products can fluctuate significantly from period to period. A significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in the amount of excess inventory on hand. In addition, our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product development and rapid product obsolescence that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand and judgement to determine excess inventory may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the reduction to the total carrying value of our inventory for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if our inventory is determined to be overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our cost of goods sold at the time of such determination. Likewise, if our inventory is determined to be undervalued, we may have over-reported our cost of goods sold in previous periods and would be required to recognize additional gross margin at the time the related inventory is sold. Therefore, although we make every effort to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our results of operations. Accounting for Income Taxes. We estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the differing treatment of certain items for tax return and financial statement purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. We recognize income taxes using an asset and liability approach. This approach requires the recognition of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. The measurement of current and deferred taxes is based on provisions of the enacted tax law and the effects of future changes in tax laws or rates are not anticipated. Evaluating the need for a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets requires judgment and analysis of all the positive and negative evidence available, including cumulative losses in recent years and projected future taxable income, to determine whether all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Using available evidence and judgment, we establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, when it is determined that it is more likely than not that they will not be realized. Valuation allowances have been provided primarily against the U.S. research and development credits. Valuation allowances have also been provided against certain acquired operating losses and the deferred tax assets of foreign subsidiaries. A change in the assessment of the realization of deferred tax assets may materially impact our tax provision in the period in which a change of assessment occurs. Taxes due on future Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) exclusions in U.S. are recognized as a current period expense when incurred. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of various and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, tax laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, tax incentives, the availability of tax credits and loss carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies, which includes our estimates of the fair value of our intellectual property. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. We are subject to income tax audits by the respective tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We recognize the effect of income tax positions only if these positions are more likely than not to be sustained. Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized. Changes in recognition or measurement with respect to our uncertain tax positions are reflected in the period in which a change in judgment occurs. We record interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves the inherent uncertainty associated with complex tax laws. We believe we have adequately provided for in our financial statements additional taxes that we estimate to be required as a result of such examinations. While we believe that we have adequately provided for all tax positions, amounts asserted by tax authorities could be greater or less than our accrued position. Any unpaid tax liabilities, including the interest and penalties, are released pursuant to a final settlement with tax authorities, completion of audit or expiration of various statutes of limitation. The material jurisdictions in which we are subject to potential examination by tax authorities throughout the world include China, India, Israel, Singapore, Germany, and the United States. 43 The recognition and measurement of current taxes payable or refundable, and deferred tax assets and liabilities require that we make certain estimates and judgments. Changes to these estimates or judgments may have a material effect on our income tax provision in a future period. Long-lived Assets and Intangible Assets. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. Circumstances which could trigger a review include, but are not limited to the following: significant decreases in the market price of the asset; significant adverse changes in the business climate or legal factors; accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of the asset; current period cash flow or operating losses combined with a history of losses or a forecast of continuing losses associated with the use of the asset; and current expectation that the asset will more likely than not be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its estimated useful life. Whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of long-lived assets and intangible assets may not be recoverable, we estimate the future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset from its use or eventual disposition. If the sum of the expected future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. These significant judgments may include future expected revenue, expenses, capital expenditures and other costs, discount rates and whether or not alternative uses are available for impacted long-lived assets. Goodwill. We record goodwill when the consideration paid for a business acquisition exceeds the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. We review goodwill for impairment annually on the last business day of our fiscal fourth quarter, and more frequently, if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the fair value of the reporting unit may be below its carrying amount. We have identified that our business operates as a single operating segment which can further be divided into two components; Networking and Storage. We concluded that goodwill is recoverable from these two components working jointly due to a fact pattern demonstrating significant sharing of assets, corporate resources, and benefits from common research and development. The two components also exhibit similar economic characteristics. Accordingly, management concluded that these two components should be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of testing goodwill impairment. When testing goodwill for impairment, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value or we may determine to proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. Factors we consider important in the qualitative assessment which could trigger a goodwill impairment review include; significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; significant negative industry or economic trends; a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and a significant change in our market capitalization relative to our net book value. If we assess qualitative factors and conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, or if we determine not to use qualitative assessment, then a quantitative impairment test is performed. The quantitative impairment test requires comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. An impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is lower than its carrying value. We would record an impairment loss in the fiscal quarter in which an impairment determination is made. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. As of the last day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we performed our annual impairment assessment for testing goodwill. A step one assessment was performed. Based on our assessment, we determined there was no goodwill impairment. 44 Business Combinations. We allocate the fair value of the purchase consideration of a business acquisition to the tangible assets, liabilities, and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (IPR&D), based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. IPR&D is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When an IPR&D project is completed, the IPR&D is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and amortized over the assets estimated useful life. Our valuation of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires significant estimates, especially with respect to intangible assets. The valuation of intangible assets, in particular, requires that we use valuation techniques such as the income approach. The income approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow model, which includes discounted cash flow scenarios and requires the following significant estimates: future expected revenue, expenses, capital expenditures and other costs, and discount rates. We estimate the fair value based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Acquisition-related expenses and related restructuring costs are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred. Results of Operations Years Ended January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020 The following table sets forth information derived from our consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of net revenue: Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 49.9 49.7 Gross profit 50.1 50.3 Operating expenses: Research and development 36.1 40.0 Selling, general and administrative 15.7 17.3 Legal settlement 1.2 Restructuring related charges 5.8 2.0 Total operating expenses 58.8 59.3 Operating income (loss) (8.7) (9.0) Interest income 0.1 0.2 Interest expense (2.3) (3.2) Other income, net 0.1 41.6 Income (loss) before income taxes (10.8) 29.6 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1.5) (29.0) Income (loss), net of tax (9.3) % 58.6 % Net Revenue Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentage) Net revenue $ 2,968,900 $ 2,699,161 10.0 % Our net revenue for fiscal 2021 increased by $269.7 million compared to net revenue for fiscal 2020. This increase was primarily due to a 22% increase in sales of our networking products and a 1% increase in sales of our storage products, partially offset by a 27% decrease in sales of our other products. Average selling prices increased 30% compared to fiscal 2020, and unit shipments were 20% lower compared to fiscal 2020, for an overall increase in net revenue of 10%. This was primarily driven by our recent portfolio changes, including the acquisition of Avera ASIC business, which increased our average selling prices, and the divestiture of the Wi-Fi Connectivity business, which decreased our unit shipments. 45 Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of goods sold $ 1,480,550 $ 1,342,220 10.3 % % of net revenue 49.9 % 49.7 % Gross profit $ 1,488,350 $ 1,356,941 9.7 % % of net revenue 50.1 % 50.3 % The cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was higher for fiscal 2021 primarily due to increased costs from higher amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the Aquantia and Avera acquisitions, partially offset by decreased costs from amortization of inventory fair value adjustment associated with the acquisitions. As a result, gross margin for fiscal 2021 decreased 0.2 percentage points compared to fiscal 2020. Research and Development Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 1,072,740 $ 1,080,391 (0.7) % % of net revenue 36.1 % 40.0 % Research and development expense decreased by $7.7 million in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease was due primarily to $43.4 million of higher non-recurring engineering credits recognized in the current year and $6.3 million lower travel expense due to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by additional costs from our acquisitions of Aquantia and Avera, including $19.9 million of higher employee personnel-related costs, $13.4 million of higher depreciation and amortization expense and $7.3 million of higher computer-aided design software related costs. Selling, General and Administrative Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general and administrative $ 467,240 $ 464,580 0.6 % % of net revenue 15.7 % 17.3 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $2.7 million in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was due primarily to additional costs associated with our acquisitions of Aquantia and Avera, including $16.9 million of higher intangibles amortization expense, $9.7 million of higher employee personnel-related costs, $4.6 million of higher facility expense and $2.0 million of higher depreciation and amortization expense. These collective expense increases were partially offset by $17.0 million of lower Aquantia and Avera merger transaction costs and integration costs reflective of one-time non-recurring Aquantia and Avera merger transaction costs incurred in fiscal 2020 when the deals were closing and lower integration costs in fiscal 2021. In addition, lower travel and employee activity expenses of $13.8 million compared to fiscal 2020 were incurred in the current year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 46 Share-Based Compensation Expense Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 (in thousands) Cost of goods sold $ 16,320 $ 13,759 Research and development 150,867 157,054 Selling, general and administrative 74,352 71,996 Total share-based compensation $ 241,539 $ 242,809 Share-based compensation expense was relatively flat, decreasing by $1.3 million in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. Legal Settlement Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Legal settlement $ 36,000 $ * % of net revenue 1.2 % % *Not meaningful In connection with a dispute, we recorded a charge of $36 million. Refer to "Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies" for a discussion of such settlement. Restructuring Related Charges Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 (in thousands) Restructuring related charges $ 170,759 $ 55,328 We recorded total restructuring related charges of $170.8 million in fiscal 2021 as we integrated the acquired businesses and continued to evaluate our existing operations to increase operational efficiency, decrease costs and improve profitability. See Note 6 - Restructuring and Other Related Charges in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Interest Income Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 2,599 $ 4,816 (46.0) % % of net revenue 0.1 % 0.2 % Interest income decreased by $2.2 million in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to lower interest rates on our invested cash. 47 Interest Expense Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (69,264) $ (85,631) (19.1) % % of net revenue (2.3) % (3.2) % Interest expense decreased by $16.4 million in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to lower outstanding term loan balances as well as lower borrowing rates. Other Income, net Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentages) Other income, net $ 2,886 $ 1,122,555 * % of net revenue 0.1 % 41.6 % *Not meaningful Other income, net changed by $1.1 billion in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. The change was primarily due to the gain on sale of the Wi-Fi Connectivity business in fiscal 2020. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Year Ended January 30, 2021 February 1, 2020 % Change in 2021 (in thousands, except percentage) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (44,870) $ (786,009) (94.3) % The income tax benefit for fiscal 2021 is primarily attributable to the pretax losses of our subsidiaries with income tax rates that differ from the U.S. statutory tax rate, combined with a net reduction of unrecognized tax benefits inclusive of interest and penalties, offset by tax expense attributable to non-deductible compensation. The income tax benefit for fiscal 2020 was primarily related to the recognition of a $763.0 million tax benefit for the intra-entity transfer of the majority of our intellectual property to a subsidiary in Singapore. This resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and tax benefit of $659.0 million related to the Singapore tax basis in the intellectual property. In addition, we recognized $104.0 million of income tax benefit from the reversal of deferred tax liabilities primarily related to previously acquired intangible assets. The prior period transaction aligned the global economic ownership of our intellectual property rights with our current and future business operations. We continue to evaluate potential changes to our legal entity structure in response to guidelines and requirements in various international tax jurisdictions where we conduct business, as well as changes to our business, and acquisitions and divestitures. Our provision for incomes taxes may be affected by changes in the geographic mix of earnings with different applicable tax rates, changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of income tax audits, the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws and regulations. It is also possible that significant negative evidence may become available that causes us to conclude that a valuation allowance is needed on certain of our deferred tax assets, which would adversely affect our income tax provision in the period of such change in judgment. Additionally, please see the information in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the caption Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results . Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 1, 2020 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended February 2, 2019 and year-to-year comparisons between the fiscal years ended February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019 in Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 48 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal source of liquidity as of January 30, 2021 consisted of approximately $748.5 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $618.1 million was held by subsidiaries outside of Bermuda. We plan to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities. In June 2018, we executed debt agreements to obtain a $900 million term loan and $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in order to fund the Cavium acquisition. In addition, we executed a debt agreement in June 2018 to obtain a $500 million revolving credit facility (2018 Revolving Credit Facility). In October 2020, in order to fund the Inphi acquisition, we obtained commitments consisting of a $2.5 billion bridge loan commitment. In December 2020, we executed a debt agreement to obtain a $875 million 3-year term loan and a $875 million 5-year term loan. We also executed a debt agreement to obtain a $750 million revolving credit facility (2020 Revolving Credit Facility) which replaced the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility. See Note 11 - Debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, together with cash generated from operations, and funds from our 2020 Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and any declared dividends, repurchase of our common stock and commitments for at least the next twelve months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, costs of securing access to adequate manufacturing capacity, the timing and extent of research and development projects and increases in operating expenses, which are all subject to uncertainty. To the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents together with cash generated by operations, and funds available under our 2020 Revolving Credit Facility are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also acquire additional businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and our planned repurchases of common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and our shareholders, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Bermuda law, market conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments and repurchases of common stock may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. Our share repurchase program was temporarily suspended in late March 2020 to preserve cash during the COVID-19 pandemic and remains temporarily suspended in anticipation of the funding of our acquisition of Inphi. We will continue to evaluate business conditions to decide when we can restart the share repurchase program. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $817.3 million for fiscal 2021 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $360.3 million for fiscal 2020. The cash inflows from operations for fiscal 2021 were primarily due to $277.3 million of net loss adjusted for $1.0 billion of non-cash items and a net increase from changes in working capital of $67.9 million. The cash inflow from working capital for fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by an increase in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities, an increase in accounts payable and an increase in accrued employee compensation, as well as a decrease in inventories. Such increase was partially offset by cash outflows due to an increase in accounts receivable and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. The increase in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities was mainly due to an increase in legal reserves. The increase in accounts payable was mainly due to timing of payments. The increase in accrued employee compensations was due to increase in our bonus accrual and increase in employee contributions to the employee stock purchase plan. The decrease in inventories was due to improved supply chain management. The increase in accounts receivable was driven primarily by the increase in revenue and stable collections. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was due to an increase in ship and debit reserve. Net cash provided by operating activities was $360.3 million for fiscal 2020. The cash inflows from operations for fiscal 2020 were primarily due to $1.6 billion of net income adjusted for $1.0 billion of non-cash items and a net decrease from changes in working capital of $190.8 million. The cash outflow from working capital for fiscal 2020 was primarily driven by a decrease in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities due to payment of interest, deal cost and severance. 49 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $119.6 million in fiscal year 2021 was primarily driven by purchases of property and equipment of $106.8 million, and purchases of technology licenses of $12.7 million. Net cash provided by investing activities of $558.8 million in fiscal year 2020 was primarily driven by proceeds from sale of business $1.7 billion and maturities of available-for-sale securities of $18.8 million, partially offset by net cash paid to acquire Aquantia and Avera of $1.1 billion and purchase of property and equipment of $81.9 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $596.8 million in fiscal year 2021 was primarily attributable to $250.0 million repayment of debt principal, $160.6 million payment for our quarterly dividends, $100.0 million payments for technology license obligations and $38.0 million payments for debt financing and equity issuance costs associated with the Inphi acquisition. Net cash used in financing activities of $853.9 million in fiscal year 2020 was primarily attributable to $1.3 billion repayment of debt principal, $364.3 million payment for repurchase of our common stock and $159.6 million payment of our quarterly dividend. This cash outflow was partially offset by $1.0 billion proceeds from issuance of debt and $49.0 million net proceeds from the issuance of our common shares under our share-based plans, less the tax withholding on behalf of employees for net share settlements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities of financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of January 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Under our manufacturing relationships with our foundry partners, cancellation of outstanding purchase orders is allowed but requires repayment of all expenses incurred through the date of cancellation. As of January 30, 2021, these foundries had incurred approximately $329.5 million of manufacturing costs and expenses relating to our outstanding purchase orders. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 30, 2021 and the effect that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in thousands): Payment Obligations by Fiscal Year 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Thereafter Total Contractual obligations: Principal payments on debt $ 200,000 $ $ 500,000 $ $ $ 500,000 $ 1,200,000 Interest obligations on debt 48,882 45,879 33,578 24,646 24,646 59,109 236,740 Facilities operating leases, net (1) 37,108 33,015 23,931 15,782 14,765 27,437 152,038 Purchase commitments to foundries 329,508 329,508 Capital purchase obligations 20,951 20,951 Technology license obligations (2) 83,919 61,876 49,147 309 309 195,560 Other contractual commitments 9,876 669 14 150 4,013 14,722 Total contractual cash obligations $ 720,368 $ 150,646 $ 607,325 $ 40,751 $ 39,870 $ 590,559 $ 2,149,519 (1) Amounts exclude contractual sublease proceeds of $23.0 million to be received through fiscal 2028. Refer to Note 10 - Leases in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. (2) Amounts represent anticipated future cash payments, including anticipated interest payments not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. 50 In addition to the above commitments and contingencies, as of January 30, 2021, we have $20.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities. We also have a liability for potential interest and penalties of $4.0 million as of January 30, 2021. It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits could increase or decrease significantly due to changes in tax law in various jurisdictions, new tax audits and changes in the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies within the next 12 months. Excluding these factors, uncertain tax positions may decrease by as much as $5.4 million from the lapse of statutes of limitation in various jurisdictions during the next 12 months. Government tax authorities from several non-U.S. jurisdictions are also examining our tax returns. We believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcomes related to these tax audits and that any settlement will not have a material effect on our results at this time. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Related Party Transactions None.