Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipates, expects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, can, will and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. We make a number of forward-looking statements that relate to future periods and include statements relating to our anticipation that the rate of new orders and shipments may vary significantly from quarter to quarter; our expectations regarding market acceptance of our products using our innovative solutions; our expectations regarding sustained investments leading to new growth opportunities; our expectations regarding the declaration of, timing of, funding of, payment of and quarterly amount of dividends; our expectations regarding industry trends; our expectations regarding our inventory levels; our expectations regarding the amount of our future sales in Asia; our expectations regarding competition; our expectations relating to the protection of our intellectual property; our expectations regarding the amount of customer concentration in the future; our plans and expectations regarding our auction rate securities; our expectations regarding acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances and joint ventures; our expectations regarding net revenue, cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue and operating expenses for the first quarter ending May 3, 2014 compared with the fourth quarter ending February 1, 2014; our expectations regarding the growth of solid state drive revenue; our expectations regarding the impact of legal proceedings and claims; our ability to meet our capital needs for at least the next 12 months; our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel; our expectations regarding future growth opportunities; our plan regarding forward exchange contracts and the effect of foreign exchange rates; our expectations regarding unrecognized tax benefits; the effect of recent accounting pronouncements and changes in taxation rules; our expectation regarding the effectiveness of our hedges of foreign currency exposures; our expectations that quarterly operating results will fluctuate from quarter to quarter; our expectations regarding the current economic environment; our expectations regarding arrangements with suppliers; our expectations regarding our ability to develop and introduce new products and achieve market acceptance of our products; our expectations regarding pricing; our expectations regarding demand for our products and the impact of seasonality on demand; our expectations regarding defects; our expectations regarding the implementation and improvement of operational and financial systems, as well as the implementation of additional procedures and other internal management systems; our expectations regarding gross margin and the events that may cause gross margin to fluctuate; our expectations to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; our expectations regarding the portion of our operations and sales outside of the United States; our expectations regarding the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting; our expectations regarding future impairment review of our goodwill and intangible assets; and the anticipated features and benefits of our technology solutions. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted, include but are not limited to, our dependence upon the hard disk drive and mobile and wireless markets, which are highly cyclical and intensely competitive; our ability and the ability of our customers to successfully compete in the markets in which we serve; our dependence on a small number of customers; the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal proceedings; the impact of international conflict and continued economic volatility in either domestic or foreign markets; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for existing or new products and services; our maintenance of an effective system of internal controls; our ability and our customers ability to develop new and enhanced products and the adoption of those products in the market; our success in integrating businesses we acquire and the impact such acquisitions may have on our operating results; our ability to estimate customer demand and future sales accurately; the success of our strategic relationships; our reliance on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products; our ability to manage future growth; the development and evolution of markets for our integrated circuits; our ability to protect our intellectual property; the impact of any change in our application of the United States federal income tax laws and the loss of any beneficial tax treatment that we currently enjoy; the impact of changes in international financial and regulatory conditions; and the impact of lengthy and expensive product sales cycles. Additional factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth in the following discussion, as well as the risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Overview We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance application-specific standard products. Our core strength of expertise is the development of complex Systems-on-a-Chip devices, leveraging our extensive technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. The majority of our product portfolio leverages the ARM technology portfolio. We also develop platforms that we define as integrated hardware along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for data storage, enterprise-class Ethernet data switching, Ethernet physical-layer transceivers, mobile handsets, connectivity and other consumer electronics. Our products serve diverse applications used in carrier, metropolitan, enterprise and PC-client data communications and storage systems. Additionally, we serve the consumer electronics market for the convergence of voice, video and data applications. As a fabless integrated circuit company, we rely on independent, third party contractors to perform manufacturing, assembly and test functions. This approach allows us to focus on designing, developing and marketing our products and significantly reduces the amount of capital we need to invest in manufacturing products. 23 Table of Contents A significant number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronics products, including gaming devices and personal computers, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Holiday and back to school buying trends may at times negatively impact our results in the first and fourth quarter and positively impact our results in the second and third quarter of our fiscal years. In addition, consumer electronics sales are heavily dependent on new product launch timelines and product refreshes. For example, our sales of wireless connectivity products may increase significantly during a period when one of our consumers launches a new gaming console, and these sales may taper significantly after the initial launch period. A relatively large portion of our sales have historically been made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. In addition, the sales cycle for our products is long, which may cause us to experience a delay between the time we incur expenses and the time revenue is generated from these expenditures. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Consequently, if anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and future quarters may be adversely affected. In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we refer to the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 as fiscal 2008, the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 as fiscal 2009, the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 as fiscal 2010, the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 as fiscal 2011, the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 as fiscal 2012, the fiscal year ended February 2, 2013 as fiscal 2013, the fiscal year ending February 1, 2014 as fiscal 2014 and the fiscal year ending January 31, 2015 as fiscal 2015. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates, and such differences could affect the results of operations reported in future periods. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 1, 2014. Results of Operations Net revenue for the three months ended May 3, 2014 was higher by approximately 30% compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013, led by year over year growth in the mobile and wireless end markets, together with stable growth in the storage market. On a sequential basis net revenue grew approximately 3% during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, despite the first quarter normally being a seasonally down quarter, as we saw strong growth from sales of products in our mobile market from multiple Tier-1 customers who have launched their 4G LTE smart phones in China based on our solutions. We are seeing many of our customers introducing new devices using our innovative solutions, which we believe will drive success across all of our end markets. Our future growth is expected to be driven by areas such as mobile handsets, tablets, connectivity, smart home devices and solid state drive (SSD) controllers. In the mobile market, we continued to make steady progress with our LTE solutions, where we passed qualifications in China in fiscal 2014. We continue to focus on the LTE market in China and we are seeing more OEM partners start new 4G LTE smart phone, tablet and mobile broadband device projects with our chipsets. We are also expanding into multiple geographies. In North America, we became fully certified for voice and data at AT&T in fiscal 2014. Most recently, we achieved another important milestone with the completion of LTE certification at Verizon. We are on track to powering more multimode LTE devices from leading OEMS for deployment around the world later this year. However, we expect increased competition in LTE later this year, as multiple competitors will come to production with their devices. In addition to competing for design wins and unit sales, this increased competition could drive pricing lower. Our 3G unified platform is still in production at multiple top tier OEMs. In addition to our dual-core devices, our quad-core platform is also in production with leading OEM customers who have introduced multiple quad-core smartphone models targeting the mass-market segments for both WCDMA and TD-SCDMA. In the wireless connectivity market, we experienced growth in the gaming market where our wireless connectivity solutions are being used in new game consoles that were launched for the past holiday season. We expect wireless connectivity and other advanced features in these new game consoles to help drive growth for us this year in this industry. In the smart phone market, we continue to have on-going 100% attach rates on our new mobile platforms for our connectivity solutions with our 3G and 4G mobile platforms. We are seeing new opportunities for our connectivity solutions across multiple market segments. We are also seeing increased momentum for both our 1x1 and our 2x2 combo solutions in mobile computing, dongles, set-top boxes and home automation. Our WiFi and Zigbee devices are gaining strong adoption in new IoT-type devices, home automation and smart lighting applications, and we expect volume to ramp up later this year. Our connectivity products have superior RF performance which helps accelerate customer on-boarding and reduce their time-to-market. 24 Table of Contents In the storage market, we continue to execute well as the overall drive industry seems to have stabilized. Our revenue has continued to grow within the SSD market and our strategy of partnering with top tier OEMs has resulted in excellent traction for our advanced SSD solutions. Our PCIe SSD solutions are in mass production and we believe we have a lead in the market. There were also several new product announcements made by multiple customers for our client and enterprise SATA and SAS products. Within the hard disk drive (HDD) market, we continue to experience strong demand for our 500 gigabyte per platter products. In addition, we have continued to see increased demand in enterprise drives at a top North America based HDD customer. We are also leveraging our technology leadership in HDD and SSD to help our customer migrate to hybrid storage devices by developing a single-chip solution that we believe will drive lower price points and allow the market to grow. We believe this will allow us to further increase our share and solidify our leadership position in the market over the next few years. In the networking market, we experienced softer than expected demand in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 from some of our enterprise networking customers due to a weaker market overall. Since we announced our first 28nm network processor and traffic management solutions with our Xelerated AX and HX family of products targeting the infrastructure market, we have engaged with Tier-1 customers on these new high-performance products for their next generation networking equipment. We continue to gain momentum in closing design-wins and driving new opportunities with our latest family of network processing solutions. Our cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue for the three months ended May 3, 2014 was higher compared to both the three months ended February 1, 2014 and May 4, 2013. As we expand our presence and grow revenue in the mobile and wireless end markets, we expect our gross margin to face downward pressure, as these end markets generally have lower average gross margins than the rest of our business. However, we expect this growth will result in improvement to total gross margin dollars and operating profit. In addition, we are focused on efforts to improve both aspects of our gross profit, including through cost improvement and pricing. Our financial position is strong and we continue to generate significant positive cash flows. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $2.1 billion at May 3, 2014 and we generated cash flow from operations of $235.1 million through the first quarter of fiscal 2015. We paid a cash dividend of $0.06 per share for a total of $30.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and we recently announced a dividend of $0.06 per share to be paid during the second quarter of fiscal 2015. We are currently involved in a patent litigation action with Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) (See Risk Factors under Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of the risks associated with this matter and other patent litigation matters). A jury has awarded past damages of $1.17 billion, and the Court calculated damages, including enhancement, to total approximately $1.54 billion. The Court also held that CMU is entitled to post judgment interest and an on-going royalty. Based on the royalty rate assessed by the District Court, such additional royalties through May 3, 2014 would be approximately $250 million. On May 7, 2014, the District Court entered final judgment and on May 14, 2014, we filed a notice of appeal and posted a bond to stay execution of judgment pending the appeal. We strongly believe that we do not infringe on the methods described in the CMU patents and that our products use our own internally developed patented read channel technology. 25 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information derived from our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of net revenue: Three Months Ended May 3, 2014 May 4, 2013 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating costs and expenses: Cost of goods sold 51.6 45.7 Research and development 30.8 38.0 Selling and marketing 4.0 5.4 General and administrative 3.2 3.6 Amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets 0.7 1.5 Total operating costs and expenses 90.3 94.2 Operating income 9.7 5.8 Interest and other income, net 0.2 0.4 Income before income taxes 9.9 6.2 Benefit for income taxes (0.5 ) (1.0 ) Net income 10.4 % 7.2 % Three months ended May 3, 2014 and May 4, 2013 Net Revenue Three Months Ended May 3, 2014 May 4, 2013 % Change (in thousands, except percentage) Net revenue $ 957,830 $ 734,369 30.4 % Net revenue for the three months ended May 3, 2014 increased by $223.5 million compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013. The increase in net revenue during the three months ended May 3, 2014 was led by sales of our mobile and wireless products where we saw strong growth from multiple Tier-1 customers who have launched their 4G LTE smart phones in China based on our solutions. Sales of our 3G products in the three months ended May 3, 2014 were also higher compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013. In our storage market, we saw higher HDD revenue, which was mostly driven by continued growth for our 500 gigabyte per platter products and increased demand for enterprise drives at a top North America based HDD customer. In addition, revenue for SSD controllers increased significantly compared to the prior year. We currently expect overall net revenue for the three months ending August 2, 2014 to be in the range of $940 million to $980 million. At the midpoint of this range, we expect revenue from all of our end markets to be relatively flat compared the three months ended May 3, 2014. Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. We had two end customers who each represented greater than 10% of our total net revenue for the three months ended May 3, 2014 and May 4, 2013, respectively. Net revenue from one of these two customers for the three months ended May 3, 2014 and May 4, 2013 was 19% and 28% of total net revenue, respectively. Net revenue from the other customer for the three months ended May 3, 2014 and May 4, 2013 was 11% of total net revenue for each fiscal year. We also had one distributor who represented 10% of our net revenue for the three months ended May 3, 2014. No distributors accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue for the three months ended May 4, 2013. We expect to continue to experience similar customer concentration in future periods. Most of our sales are expected to continue to be made to customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. Sales to customers located in Asia represented 95% of our net revenue for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to 93% of our net revenue for the three months ended May 4, 2013. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. 26 Table of Contents Cost of Goods Sold Three Months Ended May 3, May 4, % 2014 2013 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 493,860 $ 335,438 47.2 % % of net revenue 51.6 % 45.7 % Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was higher for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013 due to a shift in the mix of our revenue towards our mobile and wireless products which have a higher average cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue. In addition, we had higher inventory write-downs and increased royalty expense. Our cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue may fluctuate in future periods due to, among other things, changes in the mix of products sold; the timing of production ramps of new products; increased pricing pressures from our customers and competitors, particularly in the consumer product markets that we are targeting; charges for obsolete or potentially excess inventory; changes in the costs charged by our foundry; assembly and test subcontractors; product warranty costs; changes in commodity prices such as gold; and the margin profiles of our new product introductions. We currently expect cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue for the three months ending August 2, 2014 to be slightly higher compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. Share-Based Compensation Expense Three Months Ended May 3, 2014 May 4, 2013 (in thousands) Cost of goods sold $ 2,299 $ 1,867 Research and development 20,368 23,279 Selling and marketing 2,928 3,392 General and administrative 4,374 4,975 $ 29,969 $ 33,513 Share-based compensation expense decreased by $3.5 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013. The decrease was primarily due to the reversal of previously recognized expense associated with unvested equity awards that were cancelled as a result of the resignation in February 2014 of our Chief Technology Officer, combined with lower expense related to the employee stock purchase plan. Research and Development Three Months Ended May 3, May 4, % 2014 2013 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Research and development $ 295,363 $ 279,052 5.8 % % of net revenue 30.8 % 38.0 % Research and development expense increased by $16.3 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013. This increase was primarily attributable to $22.7 million of higher personnel-related costs associated with new employees hired during the quarter to support new designs and an increase in average employee compensation. In addition, there was $4.7 million of restructuring and other exit-related costs included in research and development expenses, which is further described in the restructuring section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These increases were offset by $14.9 million of higher reimbursements for non-recurring engineering services from our customers. Selling and Marketing Three Months Ended May 3, May 4, % 2014 2013 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Selling and marketing $ 38,358 $ 39,989 (4.1 )% % of net revenue 4.0 % 5.4 % 27 Table of Contents Selling and marketing expense decreased by $1.6 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013. The decrease was primarily attributable to a $1.1 million decrease in expenses for marketing communication activities as a result of our efforts to control discretionary spending. General and Administrative Three Months Ended May 3, May 4, % 2014 2013 Change (in thousands, except percentage) General and administrative $ 30,573 $ 26,323 16.1 % % of net revenue 3.2 % 3.6 % General and administrative expense increased by $4.3 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013. This increase was due primarily to a $4.0 million increase in legal expenses for ongoing litigation matters, combined with an increase in average employee compensation. Amortization and Write-Off of Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended May 3, May 4, % 2014 2013 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets $ 6,689 $ 10,686 (37.4 )% % of net revenue 0.7 % 1.5 % Amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets decreased by $4.0 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013. The decrease was due to a reduction in amortization expense as certain intangible assets have become fully amortized. The decrease in amortization expense was partially offset by a charge to write off $3.4 million of in-process research and development in the three months ended May 3, 2014, upon our decision to discontinue the related project. Restructuring Three Months Ended May 3, May 4, 2014 2013 (in thousands) Research and development $ 4,682 $ Selling and marketing 48 General and administrative 358 228 Write-off of acquired intangible assets 3,386 $ 8,474 $ 228 We recorded a total $8.5 million restructuring charge in the three months ended May 3, 2014. The charge included $4.6 million for severance costs and $0.5 million for other exit-related costs primarily associated with previous facility closures (See Note 8 Restructuring in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, the charge included $3.4 million to write off an acquired intangible asset. Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended May 3, May 4, % 2014 2013 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Interest and other income, net $ 1,925 $ 3,160 (39.1 )% % of net revenue 0.2 % 0.4 % Interest and other income, net, decreased for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to the three months ended May 4, 2013, primarily due to the recognition of foreign currency losses from the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated tax liabilities as the U.S. dollar weakened during the three months ended May 3, 2014. 28 Table of Contents Benefit for Income Taxes Three Months Ended May 3, May 4, % 2014 2013 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Benefit for income taxes $ (4,567 ) $ (7,168 ) (36.3 )% % of net revenue (0.5 )% (1.0 )% The income tax benefit for the three months ended May 3, 2014 included the current income tax liability of $5.7 million, which was offset by tax benefits of $2.5 million from a net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits and $7.8 million from a increase in the net deferred tax assets because of the continued discussion with the Singapore tax authorities that resulted in an agreement for a major portion of the pre-tax income to be taxed at a new Development and Expansion Incentive (DEI). The net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits arose from the release of $4.9 million due to expiration of the statute of limitations, which was reduced by an increase in current unrecognized tax benefit estimates of $1.1 million and a $1.3 million tax expense related to the fiscal year 2014 tax return of a non-U.S. jurisdiction. The income tax benefit for the three months ended May 4, 2013 included the current income tax liability of $1.8 million and $0.7 million in settlements of audits in non-U.S, jurisdictions, which was more than offset by a net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of $9.7 million for the three months ended May 4, 2013. The net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits primarily arose from the expiration of statute of limitations and from the settlement of two audits in non-U.S. jurisdictions, less increases in current unrecognized tax benefit estimates. It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits could increase or decrease significantly due to changes in tax law in various jurisdictions, new tax audits and changes in the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies within the next 12 months. Excluding these factors, uncertain tax positions may decrease by as much as $18 million from the lapse of the statutes of limitation in various jurisdictions during the next 12 months. We operate under tax incentives in certain countries, which may be extended if certain additional requirements are satisfied. The tax incentives are conditional upon meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of these tax incentives decreased foreign taxes by $3.3 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 and $2.1 million for the three months ended May 4, 2013. The benefit of the tax incentives on net income per share was less than $0.01 per share for the three months ended May 3, 2014 and May 4, 2013. Our continued discussions with the Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB) regarding incentives after June 2014 have resulted in an agreement for a major portion of a new DEI. We continue to discuss the remaining portion of the incentives with the EDB in order to reach an agreement by June 30, 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal source of liquidity as of May 3, 2014 consisted of approximately $2.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $900 million is held by foreign subsidiaries (outside Bermuda). Approximately $500 million of this amount held by foreign subsidiaries is related to undistributed earnings, which have been indefinitely reinvested outside of Bermuda. These funds are primarily held in Israel, the United States and Switzerland. We have plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions, or other financing activities. If such funds were needed by the parent company in Bermuda or if the amounts were otherwise no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, we would incur a tax expense of approximately $150 million. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, exercise of employee stock options and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, any declared dividends and commitments for at least the next 12 months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, costs of securing access to adequate manufacturing capacity, the timing and extent of research and development projects and increases in operating expenses, which are all subject to uncertainty. In addition, we are named as defendants to several litigation actions and an unfavorable outcome in any current litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. Specifically, with respect to the CMU litigation, a jury has awarded past damages of $1.17 billion, and CMU has sought pre-judgment interest, post-judgment interest, attorneys fees, and an injunction and/or ongoing royalties. Based on a series of post-trial rulings, the District Court calculated the damages including enhancement to total approximately $1.54 billion, and held that, under its decision, CMU is entitled to post judgment interest and an ongoing royalty. Based on the royalty rate assessed by the District Court, such additional royalties through May 3, 2014 would be approximately $250 million. On May 7, 2014, the District Court entered final judgment and on May 14, 2014 we filed a notice of appeal and posted a bond to stay execution of judgment pending the appeal. We strongly believe that we do not infringe on the methods described in the CMU patents and that our products use our own internally developed patented read channel technology. See the section entitled Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements below for a discussion of the effects on liquidity from the CMU litigation. To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated by operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also enter into additional acquisitions of businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders. If we 29 Table of Contents elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $235.1 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014. The cash inflows from operations for the three months ended May 3, 2014 were due to $165.0 million of net income adjusted for non-cash items and a positive effect from changes in working capital of $70.1 million. The cash inflow from working capital for the three months ended May 3, 2014 was primarily driven by an increase in accounts payable as production activity was higher in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 and deferred income due to higher inventory levels at distributors. In addition, accrued employee compensation increased primarily due to higher contributions withheld for the employee stock purchase plan. This positive impact on working capital was partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable from higher revenue levels and proportionally higher shipments in the second half of the quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities was $83.9 million for the three months ended May 4, 2013. The cash inflows from operations for the three months ended May 4, 2013 were primarily due to $124.9 million of net income adjusted for non-cash items, offset by working capital changes of $41.0 million. Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $24.3 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $0.4 million for the three months ended May 4, 2013. For the three months ended May 3, 2014, net cash used in investing activities was primarily from the payment of $16.1 million for the purchase of property and equipment and $8.1 million for the purchase of technology licenses. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended May 4, 2013 was generated from the sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities of $335.8 million less purchases of available-for-sale securities of $306.8 million. In addition, we paid $20.1 million for the purchase of property and equipment and $5.9 million for the purchase of technology licenses. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $35.3 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $241.8 million for the three months ended May 4, 2013. For the three months ended May 3, 2014, net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to payments of our quarterly dividends of $30.2 million. In addition, we paid $24.3 million for the minimum tax withholding on behalf of employees for net share settlements, which was partially offset by $19.1 million proceeds from the issuance of our common shares under our share-based plans Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended May 4, 2013 was primarily attributable to repurchases under our share repurchase program. Adjusted for repurchases made in the final three days of the quarter that were accrued but not yet paid due to the standard three-days settlement period, we paid $216.7 million to repurchase shares. The cash outflow was partially offset by net proceeds of $10.4 million from the issuance of our common shares under our share-based plans less the minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for net share settlements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements On May 14, 2014, we filed a Notice of Appeal to appeal the final judgment issued by the District Court in the CMU litigation. In order to stay the execution of the final judgment pending its appeal, we filed a supersedeas bond for $1.54 billion with the District Court. The bond was issued by a consortium of sureties authorized by the U.S. Treasury. If the judgment is affirmed after the completion of all appellate proceedings, and we do not thereafter fully satisfy the judgment within thirty days, the sureties are obligated under the bond to make payment to CMU. In support of the bond, we entered into separate indemnity agreements with each of the sureties to indemnify the sureties from all costs and payments made under the bond. The indemnity agreements did not require collateral to be posted at the time of the issuance of the bond. Therefore no cash or other Company assets are considered restricted as of the date of this filing. However, the indemnity agreements provide that each of the sureties have the right to demand to be placed in funds or call for collateral under pre-defined events. The indemnity agreements will remain outstanding for as long as the underlying bond remains outstanding. The Court has required us to report ongoing royalties under the current judgment. Based on the royalty rate assessed by the District Court, such additional royalties through May 3, 2014 would be approximately $250 million. It is unknown at this time whether we will be required to secure all or a portion of the ongoing royalties. If we are required to secure all or some portion of the ongoing royalties, we may be required to post cash or other Company assets as collateral. 30 Table of Contents As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities of financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities (SPEs), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of May 3, 2014, we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at February 1, 2014 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three months ended May 3, 2014, other than as noted under the section entitled Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements above.